Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14268-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROMOTION
PILOT PROJECT
MAY 8, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



-i-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
US$1 = CFA 530 (as of January 1995)
US$1 = 0.642748 SDR
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIPE         Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'lnteret Public et de l'Emploi (Public Works Agency)
AMADEP          Association Malienne pour le Developpement de l'lrrigation Privee (Malian Association for the Development
of Private Irrigation)
AMELEF          Association Malienne des Exportateurs de Legumes et Fruits (Malian Association for Fruit and Vegetable
Exporters)
APDF/AEF        Africa Project Development Facility/Africa Enterprise Fund (Facilities created by IFC)
APEP            Association de Promotion de I'Entreprise Privee (Association for the Promotion of Private Enterprise)
APCAM           Assemblee Plermanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali (Permanent Assembly of Cahmbers of
Commerce of Mali)
APEX            USAID-funded Livestock Project in Mali
APROFA          Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres Agricoles
AV              Association Villageoise
BCEAO           Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank of West African States)
BNDA            Banque National de Developpement Agricole (National Bank for Agricultural Development)
CAM             Chambre d'Agriculture du Mali (Chamber of Agriculture of Mali)
CECI            Canadian NGO
CCIM            Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie du Mali (Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Mali)
CILSS           Comite Inter-Etats de Lutte contre la Secheresse dans le Sahel
CMDT            Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (Malian Company for the Development of
Textile Fibers)
COLEACP         Comite de Liaison Europe/Afrique/Caratbes/Pacifique pour la Promotion des Fruits Tropicaux, Legumes de
Contre-Saison, Fleurs, Plantes Ornementales et Epices
EEC             European Economic Community
FAO-CP          Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FED/PME/PMI European Community financed program to support small and medium enterprises
GIE             Groupement d'Interet Economique
IER             Institut d'Economie Rurale (National Research Institute)
MDRE            Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Environnement (Ministry of Rural Development and
Environment)
MPCP            Mutuelle des Professionels des Cuirs et Peaux
OPAM            Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
ON              Office du Niger
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
PNVA            Projet National de Vulgarisation Agricole (National Project for Agricultural Extension)
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PRMC            Programme de Restructuration du Marche Cerealier (Program for the Restructuring of the Cereal Market)
PROCELOS    Programme pour la Valorisation des Cereales Locales dans le Sahel
STABEX          Fonds de Stabilisation des Exportations (Fund for Stabilizing Exports)
SYCOV           Svndicat des Producteurs de Coton (Syndicate of Cotton Producers)
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
ZOPP            Ziel Orientierte Projekt Plannung (Objectives-oriented Project Planning)



REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROMOTION PILOT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary ................................................ iv
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND .1
A. Overvvew..1
B. Characteristics of Sector Enterprises                                 . .2
C. Recent Performances and Constraints to Sector Growth                            .2
D. Sector Growth Perspectives                                        ..3
II. POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ENVIRONMENT .................................................3
A. Government Strategy in the Rural Sector .............................................3
B. Environment for Private Sector Development .............................................5
C. Institutional Framework .............................................5
Government Institutions .............................................5
Producer Organizations and Professional Associations .............................................6
Other National and International Support Organizations .............................................7
D. Financial Intermediation and Access to Credit ............................................8
III.  IDA Strategy.8
A. Country Assistance Stratgy                                        ..8
B. IDA Portfolio                                              ..9
C. Lessons from Past Lending Experiences                 ..10
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement                   ..11
IV. THE PROJECT' .11
A. Project Concept and Composition .11
Objectives.                                                .11
Beneficiaries..12
Project Description                   ..13
Project Components                    ..13
B. Institutional Arrangements, Implementation, and Operation .18
Institutional Set-up .18
Organization .19
Operational Procedures .19
Implementation Schedule .21
Local Contribution to Project Funding and Cost Recovery .21



- iii -
C.  Status of Project Preparation .......................................................                                          22
Progress of Project Preparation .......................................................                                      22
Lessons and Accomplishments from  Project Preparation Activities ....................................................... 23
PPF Activities to be Carried Out before Effectiveness .................                  ...................................... 24
D.  Project Costs and Financing ........................................................ 24
E.  On-lending and Administration of Funds ....................................................... 25
F.  Procurement and Use of Consultants ....................................................... 26
G.  Disbursements           .......................................................                                               26
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT .......................................................                                        28
A.  Organization ....................................................... 28
B.  Management and Coordination ....................................................... 29
C.  Programming and budgeting Procedures ....................................................... 29
D.  Reporting, Monitoring, Supervision, and Evaluation .......................................................                     30
Reporting and Monitoring ....................................................... 30
Supervision .......................................................                                                     30
Project Review and Impact Evaluation .......................................................                            31
E.  Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Monitoring ....................................................... 32
VI.  BENEFITS, RISKS, SUSTAINABILITY, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .32
A.  Project Benefits                               ...32
B. Project Risks                                          ....33
C. Sustainability                                          . . . .33
D.  Environmental Impact .......................................................                                                  33
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATION .....................................................                                  34
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Cost Tables.                                                                                                                   37
Project Cost Summary                                                                                            37
Expenditure Accounts and Project Components by Year .38
Detailed Cost Tables by Project Components .39
Annex 2: Institutional Set-up .52
Draft Agreement MDRE/APCAEAPROFA .53
Annex 3: Staffing Requirements and Qualifications .72
Annex 4:  Detailed Implementation and Supervision Schedule .75
Annex 5: Documents on Project Files .84
MAP: IBRD No. 26802
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Mali in November 1994, and was
comprised of Chantal Dejou (mission leader), Mohamed Ben-Senia and Hans Kordik. This report was
prepared by Chantal Dejou and Mohamed Ben-Senia (AF5AE), and reviewed by Randolph Harris (Division
Chief, AF5AE). The Department Director (AF5) is Jean-Louis Sarbib. The peer reviewers are: Debatisse
(EMTAG), Jaffee (AF1AE), and Soumahoro (APDF/IFC).



- i-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROMOTION
PILOT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Mali
Implementing Agency:       Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres Agricoles (APROFA)
Beneficiaries:              The Ministry of Rural Development and Environment, agricultural trading
and processing professional associations and entrepreneurs, Regional
Chambers of Agriculture
Poverty Category:           Not applicable
Credit Amount:              SDR 3.9 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:             0.5 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
On lending Terms:           Proceeds of the Credit would be transferred in grant form to APROFA
Financing Plan:             See Para. 4.30
Net Present Value:         Not applicable
Project Description:       This five-year pilot project would address key sectoral constraints to
private investment in agricultural processing and marketing, and would
focus primarily on capacity-building and on the transfer of know-how to
the private sector through information networks, training, specialized
technical assistance, and study tours. The project would pursue a two-
pronged approach: (a) provision of generic support in three regions to all
profitable  agroprocessing  private  entrepreneurs,  upstream   and
downstream of agricultural production, and (b) transfer of specialized
expertise to enterprises operating in subsectors or product lines with a
high potential for intemational export which require high-quality
standards, such as fresh and dried fruits and vegetables, hides and skins,
and shea nuts and other exotic products. Project management would be
entrusted to an "Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Agency"
a non-profit organization, to be created by the Permanent Assembly of
Malian Chambers of Agriculture, who will delegate to it full authority for
the implementation of this project and would ensure its full autonomy in
managing it. The Government will exercise overall project supervision



v -
through the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment. The
Agency will have streamlined operating structures, comprising a
zoordinating unit located in Bamako, and, in full operation, three regional
support units. The project will provide funding for: (i) the operation of
the Agency's three regional branches in the Sikasso, Segou, and Mopti
regions; (ii) support packages, including specialized technical assistance,
training, studies and investment funds for three professional organizations
promoting vertical integration for the fruit/vegetable, hides/skins, and
oilseeds/sheanut  subsectors;  (iii)  the  Agency's  operations  and
management, and the establishment and operation of an agricultural
processing and marketing information exchange network; and (iv)
activities aimed at facilitating entrepreneurs' access to investment
financing and credit.
Project Implementation:      During the first two years, only two regional agency branches (Sikasso
and Segou, which have obvious potential for agroprocessing) and one
support package to a professional organization (AMELEF, for the fruit
and vegetable subsector), will be launched. A mid-term review will assess
the impact and performance of the first phase and make recommendations
to improve project design and implementation. It will also address the
question of whether to expand project support to one or more regional
agency branch (Mopti) and to two more subsectoral professional
organizations.
Benefits:                   The main project benefits would be higher growth rates in the agricultural
trading and agroprocessing sector, thus contributing to greater econonic
diversification and increased urban and rural employment. This would be
achieved by the project laying the groundwork for a strong supply
response to the CFAF devaluation through the provision of: (a) increased
access opportunities to local and regional markets; (b) increased exports,
especially those of high value products; and (c) improved capabilities of
the Regional Chambers of Agriculture and of subsectoral professional
organizations to provide demand-driven support services to private
entrepreneurs. The project would also reduce the incidence of poverty and
enhance women's participation in and benefits from development, as most
of the project's potential beneficiaries would be small entrepreneurs, many
of them women, already involved in agricultural processing.
Risks:                      The project's main risks are: (a) its reliance upon Chambers of
Agriculture and professional organizations which are still weak and
inexperienced; (b) poor management and misuse by the Agency of its
autonomy in project implementation; and (c) the abandonment by
Government of its present policy of support to the private sector. These
risks constitute another set of reasons for the pilot format of this project.
Precautions taken to minimize these risks include provisions for: (a) high
selectivity in choosing organizations participating in implementation; (b)
stringent management rules and procedures, especially with regard to sub-
contracting procedures, similar to those already used successfully in the
"AGETIPE" projects in the region; and (c) strong monitoring of



-VF
management performance, intensive technical supervision, and regular
evaluation of beneficiaries' response.
Map No.:                    IBRD 26802
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign             Total                %
---------------------US$ million-------------------------
IDA                   3.3             2.7               6.0                 87
Government
& Beneficiaries       0.8              0                0.8                 12
CECI-CanadianNGO   0                   0.1              0.1                  1
TOTAL                 4.1              2.8              6.9                 100
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1996          1997          1998          1999          2000
Annual        1.9           0.7           1.5           1.0           0.9
Cumulative    1.9           2.6           4.1           5.1           6.0






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROMOTION
PILOT PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Overview
1.01        With a per capita GNP of only US$3 10 in 1992, Mali is one of the world's poorest
countries. Per capita incomes declined between 1980 and 1991, as the 2.5 percent annual growth
of real GDP lagged behind the 3.2% rate of population growth. Literacy (32%), life expectancy
(45 years at birth), and access to health services are also among the lowest in the world. Mali's
population, currently estimated at nine million, is mostly young and rural. Half of the population
is under twenty years of age, and three fourths of them live in rural areas. Repeated droughts
have increased migratory flows to urban centers, where the population is now growing at nearly 5
percent a year.
1.02        The rural sector dominates the Malian economy, accounting for 50 percent of
GDP, occupying more than 80 percent of the active population, and providing 75 percent of
export earnings. Of the country's 1.2 million square kilometers, only about one third is usable,
with 24 percent taken up by pasture, 7 percent by forests, and only 2 percent by cultivation. Rain
fed agriculture predominates, accounting for 90 percent of the 2.5 million hectares planted
annually. The main crops, millet, sorghum and maize, are grown largely for home consumption.
Other rain fed cash crops include cotton and groundnuts, cotton providing up to 45 percent of
export revenues. Irrigated crops, covering about 160,000 hectares out of a potential 500,000
hectares, include sugarcane, vegetables, fruits, sorghum and wheat, with rice cultivation
dominating by far. Livestock is the second most important export earner, accounting for 30
percent of export revenues.
1.03        Agroprocessing is by far the most important of the manufacturing subsectors.
According to a 1988 census, agroprocessing enterprises constitute half the total number of formal
manufacturing enterprises, and contribute 50 percent of gross production, 73 percent of value
added, and 55 percent of employment in the formal manufacturing sector. These numbers do not
include the few enterprises that specialize in exporting fruits and vegetables. Still, a considerable
share of agricultural trading and processing is handled in the rural areas by small entrepreneurs in
the informal sector, and particularly by women. These activities contribute more than two thirds
of value added and employment in the informal sector. When informal artisanal activities are
figured in, agroprocessing accounts for about 7 percent of GDP, and nearly 10 percent of
employment.



-2-
B. Characteristics of Sector Enterprises
1.04         Agricultural trading and processing activities in Mali are carried out by a wide
variety of enterprises, which can classified in four major categories:
(a)   a small group (15) of medium and large formal agroprocessing enterprises
employing 10 or more persons; most of which were public enterprises undergoing
rehabilitation programs, and which can now receive support from APEP and the
IFC regional branches (APDF/AEF), and need not be supported by this project;
(b)   a limited number (10) of enterprises specialized in the export of fruits and
vegetables;
(c)   a larger number (80) of small formal sector enterpises. mostly small,
geographically dispersed rural entities using low productivity traditional
technologies to produce low quality food and agro-industrial products destined for
local consumption; and
(d)   thousands of small informal enterprises engaged in marketing and artisanal
processing of agricultural products, mostly family part time enterprises using
rudimentary techniques and little or no equipment.
C. Recent Performances and Constraints to Sector Growth
1.05        Mali's performance in the areas of market gains for agro-processed products has
not been satisfactory. The country has either lost or been unable to gain shares on regional or
intemational markets for grains, meat, hides and skins, fruits and vegetables, and is far from fully
exploiting its domestic market for these products. For example, Malian exports of mangoes
plateau-ed from 1980 to 1990 at an average of 1,200 tons, losing European market shares (from
14 percent in 1985 to 6 percent in 1990) to some of its neighbors. According to BCEAO
statistics, exports of hides and skins and of sheanuts are stagnant and extremely unstable. They
have apparently ranged in the last two decades anywhere from 150 to 2,000 tons for hides and
skins, and from 300 to 8,000 tons for shea nuts. On the domestic market, Mali has had trouble
not only in diversifying production, but also in managing agricultural surpluses and their high
seasonality, particularly for grain and horticultural products. Losses due to inadequate marketing,
storage and handling range from 30 percent (onions) to 50 percent (mangoes). A wide range of
processed products, cereals (particularly maize), dried fruits and vegetables, dried and smoked
fish and meat, fruits, juices, jams and spices are being produced by small artisanal entrepreneurs
who have difficulty gaining access to the markets, to appropriate technologies and/or to financing.
1.06         The relevant sector and project preparation work has identified key bottlenecks to
the development of private agricultural marketing and processing enterprises:



- 3 -
(a)   Limited access to information on market opportunities, fiscal and investment
incentives, and export/import and transport regulations;
(b)   Limited know-how of post-harvest and marketing technologies and techniques;
and weak and scattered support to private agroprocessing entrepreneurs;
(c)   Weak and limited number of professional associations;
(d)   Inadequate access to credit, particularly in rural areas;
(e)   Lack and/or low quality of rural infrastructure; and
(f)   Ineffective quality control for both exported and agroprocessed products.
D. Sector Growth Persnectives
1.07        There is strong demand on European markets for many Malian agricultural
products, such as mangoes and green beans. Potentially profitable market niches also exist for
non-traditional products such as shea nuts, cashews, and gum resin. Mali's 1992 household
consumption survey has also shown surprisingly high demand for fruits and vegetables, especially
in urban areas. The high rate of urban population growth, and the anticipated improvements in
per capita incomes, should greatly increase market demand for fresh fruits and vegetables, dairy
products, and processed foods, as weil as for other agroindustrial products such as animal feed,
soap, shoes, etc. Similar growth is expected in neighboring coastal countries, thus providing
opportunities for increased regional exports of potatoes, onions, and livestock products.
1.08        These growth prospects have greatly improved since the recent CFAF devaluation.
Livestock exports to the West African coastal countries have already rebounded, sales of
cottonseed oil and other edible oils on regional export markets have expanded, and the outlook
for import substitution for locally-processed cereals, fruits and vegetables, dairy products,
cooking oil, shea nut soap, leather and textiles is promising.
IL POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ENVIRONMENT
A. Government Stratefv in the Rural Sector
2.01        Mali started a stabilization and structural adjustment program in 1982, but
adjustment efforts did not become serious until 1988, when the Government began to implement a
wide range of economic and institutional reforms. These reforms included domestic marketing
and price liberalization, reform of the regulatory framework and tax regime, public enterprise
restructuring and privatization, and the elimination of trade distortions. The civil service wage bill
has been kept in check and the share of social program expenditures in the recurrent budget has
been steadily increased. These measures have improved economic incentives and have allowed



- 4 -
market forces greater play in determining economic outcomes. In addition, the transparency and
efficiency of public resource allocation have improved. Real GDP annual growth rates have
jumped from less than 2 percent in the early 1980s to about 3.7 percent over the 1988-92 period.
The overall fiscal deficit shrank from a high of 13.9 percent of GDP in 1985 to 7.7 percent in
1990. In 1993, however, the deficit rose again to 9.6 percent of GDP, and the balance of
payments performance was adversely affected by the drop in world prices for cotton, the main
export crop.
2.02         An important macroeconomic development has been the 50 percent devaluation of
the CFA franc, decided in January 1994 by the Governments of the CFAF zone to which Mali
belongs. This important decision should boost Mali's ongoing structural adjustment efforts and
provide greater opportunities for economic growth. Already, livestock exports and prices have
increased by more than 30 percent, cotton exports and revenues have doubled, and cotton
production is expected to increase by about 50 percent in the next three years. A fourth PFP
(1994-96) has been negotiated and agreed upon with the Government: it outlines a set of
measures intended to accompany the devaluation to help restrain its inflationary impact and ensure
that significant real depreciation is achieved. It also emphasizes the importance of continuing
reform efforts, notably in agriculture, infrastructure, and public enterprise, as well as in the
regulatory and incentive framework. As a result of effective implementation of most of the
accompanying reforms, economic performance in 1994 has been impressive, with inflation holding
steady at the projected rate of 35 percent, well below the 50 percent plus rates reached in some
other CFAF countries, a 40 percent depreciation in the real exchange rate and substantial
improvements in the fiscal deficit. Should such performance continue in the future, the improved
competitiveness of agricultural and agro-processed products would be a lasting achievement.
2.03         Government has also redefined its agricultural development strategy in close
collaboration with donors, including the Bank. A long-term Master Plan for Rural Development
has been drawn up, along with a medium-term action plan aimed at refocusing the activities of the
Ministry of Rural Development on public service functions, and on streamlining its institutions.
The key objectives of the Government's agricultural development strategy are: (a) to further
disengage Government from commercial activities and promote private sector initiative in such
activities; (b) to provide adequate training for rural organizations which will be assigned lead roles
in the identification and implementation of group activities; (c) to decentralize and streamline the
administration to improve the effectiveness of local support services; and (d) to modernize Mali's
low input/output agriculture through improved extension and agricultural research.  In this
context, the strategy consolidates the liberalization of agricultural markets, and limits the
Government's role in marketing to that of manager of a food security stock.  In the
agroprocessing subsector, the Government's strategy focuses on four policy orientations: (a)
financial rehabilitation, restructuring and/or privatization of public agroprocessing enterprises; (b)
provision of incentives, via the investment code, in favor of rural-based enterprises; (c) support to
the creation of active professional organizations; and (d) the improvement, through technical and
institutional support, of the economics of agroprocessing in order to stimulate private investment
in the subsector.



B. Environment for Private Sector Development
2.04         Along with macroeconomic stabilization programs, the Government has put in
place important regulatory, marketing and pricing policy reforms aimed at fostering private sector
development, such as:
(a)    streamlining of regulations and administrative procedures, to make it easier for
private entrepreneurs to engage in production and trade activities;
(b)    amendments to the labor code to facilitate hiring and dismissal;
(c)    elimination of price controls, except for petroleum products;
(d)   liberalization of trade policies, with the abolition of quantitative restrictions, the
replacement of import licensing with a system of automatic registration, etc.;
(e)   reductions in the tax burden of formal sector enterprises; and
(f)   financial rehabilitation, restructuring, privatization, and/or liquidation of financially
strained public enterprises, etc..
2.05         Despite these reforms, numerous constraints to private sector development remain.
First, Mali's financial and business laws and regulations, based generally on those of France, are
too complex for Mali's still budding formal sector, making compliance time-consuming and
costly, especially for small businesses. Second, the judicial system is isolated from the business
community, lacks the appropriate specialized courts, and is thus unable to ensure the proper
enforcement of business laws and regulations that is needed to secure private investments. Third,
the complexity and diversity of taxes, and their high rate in some instances, are major impediments
to private sector development. Fourth, customs fraud results not only in the loss of Government
revenue, but also hinders the development of manufacturing activities, agroprocessing included.
Fifth, the investment code is strongly biased towards large investments, and small enterprises are
ill-informed and find it difficult to apply for and obtain the needed exemptions.
C. Institutional Framework
Government Institutions
2.06         Agricultural services have traditionally been rather weak, except in the CMDT and
Office du Niger (ON) intervention areas. These two state enterprises have been relatively
effective in providing technical support and in channeling financing to farmers. However, their
ability to provide support to agricultural trading and processing enterprises is extremely limited,
except in their respective areas of expertise, cotton and rice.
2.07         The Government, with the support of the IDA-financed Agricultural Services and
National Agricultural Research projects, has recently embarked on a rehabilitation program of its
research and extension services to cover areas outside CMDT and ON intervention. As a result,



- 6 -
IER and PNVA, the beneficiary institutions, have seen their capabilities to provide support
enhanced, demand oriented and more effective. However, given the priorities accorded other
agricultural subsectors, such as cereals and livestock, support capabilities in agricultural trading
and processing have remained weak, and limited to attempts at improving traditional and low
technology processes, such as drying of tomatoes and onions. Currently, training in post-harvest
technologies is unavailable in Mali.
2.08         Government services in support of private business are weak.  The "Office
National de la Main d'Oeuvre et de l'Emploi" deals only with low-level skills. The "Centre
d'Assistance aux Projets, Entreprises et Societes" has the capacity to provide training in
management, accounting, and feasibility studies, but most of its efforts are currently geared
towards recent secondary school and university graduates who lack business skills and experience.
The IDA-financed Public Works Promotion Agency (AGETIPE) and Private Sector Promotion
Agency (APEP) are active in Mali. But AGETIPE's support is too specialized, and the small
informal agroprocessing enterprises, most of which are dispersed throughout rural Mali, have little
or no access to APEP's support which is mostly geared towards large formal enterprises.
Producer Organizations and Professional Associations
2.09         The Chamber of Agriculture of Mali (CAM), until recently under the strict control
of the Ministry of Rural Development, has undergone major changes in status and structure.
There are now eight Regional Chambers of Agriculture, composed of elected representatives of
the rural population, and which have a broader mandate to promote private sector initiatives, to
support professional organizations and producer interest groups, and to represent rural sector
interests. Coordination of policy and programs, and support to the Regional Chambers is assured
by the Permanent Assembly of the Malian Regional Chambers of Agriculture (APCAM). With
training, technical support, and hands-on experience, the Regional Chambers of Agriculture
should soon be able to play a leading role in providing various support services to private
entrepreneurs in the agricultural and the agroprocessing sectors.
2.10         The Malian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCIM), although under the
tutelage of the Ministry of Commerce, is supposed to represent the interests of trade, industry,
handicrafts, and service enterprises vis-a-vis the Government, to provide technical and market
information to these enterprises, and to advise the Government on policies and regulations
affecting businesses. However, being essentially a state-controlled entity, and lacking the needed
personnel, data, documentation and access to information, the Chamber has shown little
effectiveness in providing support to business. The IDA-financed Private Sector Support Project
will provide support for the restructuring of the CCIM.
2.11         There are also some specialized professional associations involved with the
agricultural trading and processing subsectors. The "Reseau des Entreprises du Mali" is a
member of the "Reseau des Entreprises de l'Afrique de l'Ouest", which aims to develop private
business in West Africa by identifying the needs of the African private sector, lobbying to change
the regulatory framework, and promoting trade throughout the region. AMELEF was created by
the leading exporters to promote the professional and economic interests of fruits and vegetables
exporters. A cotton producers union, SYCOV, has already played a key role in negotiating
producer prices with CMDT. The Mutual Association of Hides and Leather (MPCP), the



- 7 -
Butchers Cooperative, and the Association of Livestock Traders are active in the livestock
subsector.
2.12        Producers' organizations designed for input provision and/or product marketing,
such as cooperatives, pre-cooperatives and other "groupements", proliferated until the mid-
1980s, their creation most often initiated by Government agencies and their operations supported
by the administration and/or by development projects. However, as part of its disengagement
policy, the Government has stepped back from direct interference and allowed them a high degree
of autonomy. With the decrease in Governmental support and subsidies, many have stopped
operations. Malian legislation has also recently provided for the creation of economically and
commercially-oriented organizations called "Groupements d'Interet Economique" (GIE), usually
involving fewer than ten members who pool their resources for development activities, and who
are jointly responsible for the repayment of credit.  Unlike most of the traditional "Tons
Villageois" and "Associations Villageoises" (AV), which usually have community-based and
socially-oriented activities, cooperatives and GIEs can play a key role in providing extension
services, input supply, product marketing, and access to and reimbursement of credit.
Other National and International Support Organizations
2.13         It is estimated that about 200 non-governmental organizations (NGOs) operate in
Mali. Only a few are specialized in supporting agroprocessing activities. NGOs often depend on
fluctuating financial assistance from the donor community, and their programs, usually of limited
scope, are often relatively uncoordinated with each other.  However, their closeness to
beneficiaries and their reliance on strong beneficiary participation are positive factors that make
NGOs key partners in any decentralized development activity. CMDT, for example, is relying to
an increasing degree on contractual arrangements with NGOs for the implementation of specific
activities in its area of influence.
2.14         CECI is a Canadian NGO, funded by the Canadian Agency for International
Development, which specializes in providing technical assistance to small agroprocessing
activities in developing countries. It has extensive experience in promoting appropriate food
drying technologies (meat, fish, fruits and vegetables) and cereals processing in Mali, with
projects in the Mopti and Kayes regions, in Burkina Faso, and in other neighboring countries.
The FED/PME/PMI is a European Development Fund financed project which provides financing
to small and medium size enterprises, through regional agencies recently transformed into
decentralized financial institutions called "Credit Initiative". "PAPME Canada" is a similar
project now being completed, with funding available for another year but restricted to provision
of technical assistance to private entrepreneurs in their marketing activities. The "Programme
pour la Valorisation des Cereales Locales dans le Sahel (PROCELOS), a 'Comite Inter-Etats de
Lutte contre la Secheresse ans le Sahel (CILSS) program active in Burkina Faso, Mali and
Senegal, is promoting the processing of local grains. Support is provided to small and medium
enterprises via local consulting firms and consists of the provision of technical and market
information, local market promotion for specific products, and individual counseling on technical
and managerial matters.
2.15         The Liaison Committee for Europe, Africa and the Caribbean (COLEACP), an
international organization supported partially by the European Development Fund, is active in



promoting trade in tropical fruits, off-season vegetables, ornamental plants, and flowers and
spices. In addition to its traditional functions of disseminating market information and providing
training and technical expertise in export promotion, it is currently coordinating a Sahel-wide
effort to import the export business and enhance coordination of export policies and programs.
D. Financial Intermediation and Access to Credit
2.16         Farmers and agroprocessing entrepreneurs have limited access to credit to finance
productive medium and long term investments. Agricultural credit accounts for a small share of
total credit to the economy, and the bulk of extended credit is for short-term financing of less than
two years. In 1991, the ratio of agricultural to total credit was 39 percent for short-term loans,
and only 2 percent for long and medium term loans. Within the agricultural portfolio, 98 percent
of loans are seasonal short-term credits that finance farm inputs and crop marketing. Rural
development agencies and projects, especially CMDT and Office du Niger, play a prominent
intermediary role in formal credit allocation and management, channeling about 90 percent of all
agricultural credit.
2.17         Until recently, banks have operated under financial policies that discouraged
lending to private operators. They have been even more reluctant to lend to small formal and
informal enterprises, which are characterized by a limited knowledge of markets and marketing
skills, of technical processes, and by very weak capabilities in the design and presentation of
investment projects. Unwillingness of banks to provide investment lending is also due to their own
weaknesses, limited contact and knowledge of small rural entrepreneurs, their limited experience
in lending to them, and weak capabilities in appraising the financial viability and risks of
agroprocessing activities.
2.18         Within the context of the recent liberalization of financial markets, a money market
was introduced by BCEAO that pays the prevailing rate of interest (8 percent to 9 percent) only
on that portion of offered funds for which there is a solvent demand. As this proportion has fallen
to less than 50 percent of banks' deposits with BCEAO, banks now have a growing incentive to
use their excess liquidity for lending to the private sector.  Also, the savings and loan
cooperatives, which traditionally recycled their excess resources with the banks, will now be more
inclined to extend medium- and long-term credit. An increased dialogue between businesses and
financial institutions, promoted by this pilot project, will result in the design of risk-reducing
programs and mechanisms that will likely increase the availability of investment lending to private
enterprises, and increase the access to long- and medium-term credit of agroprocessing firms.
m. IDA STRATEGY
A. Country Assistance Strateev
3.01         The Bank's strategy for Mali's rural sector is consistent with Government policy
orientations and includes the following objectives: (a) to improve the enabling environment



-9-
needed to enhance business opportunities for the private sector and encourage disengagement of
the State from commercial activities; (b) to improve technical support to producers through more
effective research and extension, in order to boost and diversify production as well as to improve
the international competitiveness of Malian exports; (c) to enhance training for, and promote
active participation of, rural groups in the design and implementation of rural development
activities; (d) to promote private investment in irrigation and the selective rehabilitation of existing
schemes rather than the construction of new ones; (e) to promote private investment in
agricultural trading and processing; (f) to support a comprehensive natural resource management
program and the creation of a legal and institutional framework giving local communities more
authority and accountability in its implementation, as well as reforms aimed at intensifying
production through appropriate land use policies; and (g) to improve infrastructure and transport.
B. IDA Portfolio
3.02         IDA's portfolio in the Malian rural sector has closely matched the above strategy.
Ongoing operations include the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSECAL, Cr. 2163-
MLI) approved in 1991, the Office du Niger Consolidation Project (Cr. 1906-MLI) approved in
1988, the Agricultural Services project (Cr. 2235-MLI) approved in 1991, the Natural Resources
Management project (Cr. 2370-MLI) approved in 1992, the National Research project approved
in 1993, and the Bank-administered Norwegian grant to support a Local Community
Development Project (PDCL) in the Mopti region. Recently phased-out operations include the
Mopti Area Development Project (Cr. 1597-MLl, closed in 1993) and the Forestry II project (Cr.
1654-MLI, closed in 1993). Following the Major Transport Sector Project approved recently, a
Rural Infrastructure Project, including rural water supply and rural roads, is now under
preparation.
3.03         First, an environment more conducive to private sector response to market signals
has been established under the AGSECAL, particularly for cereals and cotton. Cereals pricing
and marketing have been liberalized, and Government intervention, through Office des Produits
Agricoles du Mali (OPAM), has been streamlined and confined to the maintenance of a food
security stock and the management of food aid. In the cotton sector, producer prices are
negotiated by producers and CMDT, and are reviewed annually in light of export prices. The
Cotton Stabilization Fund is used to mitigate the impact on domestic prices of short-term
fluctuations in world market prices, and farmers are now involved in its management. Second,
the State's disengagement from the rice sector is being implemented under the Office du Niger
operation. All industrial and commercial activities are being transferred to the private sector or to
privately-managed entities, since the role of ON is now limited to maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure, to selective rehabilitation of that infrastructure, and to provision of extension
services. Efforts are also under way to improve the productivity of ON by strengthening its
managerial capacity and restructuring its finances. Third, an effort to improve farm productivity
and promote more sustainable agriculture is in progress and includes: (a) the reorganization of
extension services, with the support of the Agricultural Services Project, to make them more
effective in disseminating messages relevant to agriculture, livestock and natural resource
management, while strengthening the research/extension linkage; (b) the development of more
efficient farm-level technologies that improve returns on investment and decrease production
costs, through the Agricultural Research Project and via reforms in the national agricultural



- 10-
research system aimed at improving research coherence, quality, relevance and accountability; and
(c) the provision, through the Natural Resources Management Project, of necessary support to
village communities to enable them to establish, implement, and monitor village-level natural
resource management plans. Fourth, the rural development activities of local groups are being
promoted under the Bank-administered PDCL, through provision of training to producer groups
in the design and management of flood-recession rice perimeters, range lands, pastures and other
off-farm activities.
3.04         An environment more conducive to private investment is also being promoted in
Mali with the support of such IDA projects as SALs and a Private Sector Development Project.
Under the latter project, the Agency for the Promotion of Private Entreprises (APEP), as well as
IFC's regional branches (APDF/AEF), are providing technical support to medium and large
private enterprises. The proposed project will focus on types of support not yet provided by these
agencies, to beneficiaries too small or too remote to take advantage of their services. It has been
agreed with APEP and APDF that requests for technical support from large agribusiness should
be referred to them. Coordination and complementarity will be further pursued with the
Transport Sector Project, which is aimed at alleviating many infrastructure constraints and with a
Private Irrigation Promotion Project currently under preparation. The proposed project will also
contribute in the identification of priority needs for rural infrastructure to be considered under the
Rural Infrastructure Project under preparation.
C. Lessons from Past Lending Experiences
3.05         Lessons from the Bank's lending experience in agriculture suggest, first, that
farmers and agroprocessing entrepreneurs are responsive to improved and profitable technologies,
and are prepared to invest time and resources to adopt them. One can cite the example of rice
transplantation techniques and the use of organic manure, which have been adopted on an
impressive scale over the last few years. Second, individual farmers or groups are able and willing
to play important roles in designing and managing rural development activities. Over the last few
years, private small-scale irrigation schemes have proliferated despite the lack of Government
support. Under PDCL's natural resource management operations, producer groups have also
shown increasing enthusiasm and willingness to take important initiatives in implementing project
activities. Third, centralized project management by the Government tends to lose sight of
farmers' constraints and priorities. Results from the Mopti Area Development Project clearly
indicate that the project's centralized management unit, in addition to being ill-placed to react to
complex local conditions, was handicapped by inefficient administrative procedures as well as by
weak management, and that the local communities and private sector entities were insufficiently
involved in project planning and implementation. Thus, there is a need to tap the management
skills of professionally oriented and decentralized institutions to coordinate and implement
Government-financed operations in the rural sector. This "private provision of public services"
approach, received favorably by Government, as illustrated by the AGETIPE and Private Sector
Promotion projects, will be used for the proposed project.
3.06         IDA's experience with projects channeling support to small agricultural trading
and processing enterprises through professional organizations is rather recent, hence the pilot
format of this project. Implementation of other ongoing agroprocessing projects in Sub-Saharan



- 11-
Africa has shown there is a need for strong technical supervision and stringent auditing
monitoring, and evaluation procedures. Given the relative success of the AGETIPE approach in
providing support to the private sector in Mali and other neighboring countries, this project will
incorporate many of the AGETIPE features that relate to the management, supervision,
monitoring, auditing, and evaluation procedures.
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.07         This project fits well within IDA's country assistance strategy of promoting private
sector development. The high growth potential and improved competitiveness makes agricultural
trading and processing a priority sector for private investment, and puts it in a position to make
significant contributions to the Government's key policy objectives of employment creation and
income generation, especially in rural areas. Given the predominance of small and geographically
dispersed enterprises, there is real scope for broad-based growth that will help alleviate poverty,
slow rural migration, and increase household food security for both urban and rural populations.
The sector's growth will also significantly increase the participation level and productivity of
women, who are traditionally very active in agricultural trading and processing.
3.08         This project capitalizes on and supplements sector adjustment programs. The
small formal and informal enterprises to be supported under this project complement the larger
privatized firms, as they can fill market niches inaccessible to the latter. The export promotion
component, by capitalizing on the market liberalization measures and on the recent trade and
exchange policies, will contribute to improvement in the balance of payment, through increased
exports.
3.09         This pilot project will test the feasibility and effectiveness of providing support to
private sector enterprises through professional associations. The lessons to be drawn from this
project will be useful to other IDA programs/projects not only in Mali, but also in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
IV. THE PROJECT'
A. Proiect Concept and Composition
Objectives
4.01         This project's long term objectives are to:
(a)   induce sustained output growth in the agricultural trading and processing
subsector, through increased exports to European and regional markets, and
through import substitution on the local market;
(b)   contribute to increasing incomes, particularly in the rural areas and for women, and
to alleviate poverty;



- 12-
(c)    help reduce current unemployment, by creating jobs particularly in rural and semi-
urban areas.
4.02          To achieve a sustained output growth would require that the project help
agribusiness, traders, exporters, and producers, become capable of achieving better adequacy of
products to consumer preferences, improved and more uniform product quality, increased
timeliness and regularity of product delivery, and lower costs throughout the marketing chain.
The project should also seek sustained improvements in the ability of professional organizations
and chambers of agriculture active in the subsector to select, manage, and finance support services
to private entrepreneurs. Hence, the project's development objectives are to:
(a)    enhance the technical and managerial capabilities of private entrepreneurs involved
in the agricultural trading and processing subsector;
(b)    demonstrate the feasibility of alternative export channels (such as maritime
shipment for mangoes) and expand the use of low cost processing and storing
technologies;
(c)    help entrepreneurs identify and get access to new markets for their products;
(d)    facilitate the development of business relationships between private agricultural
trading processing enterprises and formal and informal financial institutions;
(e)    help chambers of agriculture and professional associations build their own
capabilities for provision of demand driven support services to private
entrepreneurs.
4.03          The project will also seek to:
(a)    improve the adequacy of quality control, extension, and research services provided
by public institutions by establishing consultation and financing processes involving
beneficiaries to make them more demand driven and market oriented;
(b)    test the efficiency of a private type agency, using expeditious and flexible
procedures, to provide support to private sector enterprises; and
(c)    test alternative channels (chambers of agriculture and professional organizations)
for beneficiaries' participation in the definition of priorities and provision of
services to the private sector.
Beneficiaries
4.04          The project's intended beneficiaries can be divided into two groups. First, there are
all entrepreneurs in the private sector involved in selected key agroprocessing subsectors,
including  producers,  pickers  and  handlers,  packagers,  transporters,  processors  and



- 13-
traders/exporters. These consist mostly of small enterprises who use unskilled labor from the
informal sector in rural or semi-urban areas and whom the project will help expand their
professional skills and activities, as key contributors to the performance of the subsector. Women
(para. 1.03) have traditionally played a key role in handling, processing and packaging agricultural
products, and during the appraisal, it was agreed with Government that the Committee for the
Promotion of Women (under the Prime Minister) launch with the help of this project a specific
training program for women involved in key agroprocessing subsectors. Second, there are the
professional associations and the chambers of agriculture (paras. 2.09, 2.11), created by their
members to provide collective services to them, such as market information, quality control,
training, representation. The project will help these existing and representative bodies in their
efforts to enhance their capabilities to provide services to their constituencies.
Project Description
4.05         This five-year pilot project would address key sector constraints to private
investment in agricultural processing and marketing, and would focus primarily on capacity-
building and on the transfer of know-how to the private sector through information networks,
training, specialized TA, and study tours. The project will also gradually transfer responsibilities
of the services which will prove most needed and cost-efficient during the pilot operation to
Chambers of Agriculture and Professional organizations. The project would pursue a two-
pronged approach: (a) provision of polyvalent support in three regions to all profitable
agroprocessing private entrepreneurs, upstream and downstream of agricultural production, and
(b) transfer of specialized expertise to enterprises operating in subsectors or product lines with a
high potential for international export which require high-quality standards, such as fresh and
dried fruits and vegetables, hides and skins, and shea nuts and other exotic products.
Project Components
4.06         The project will have four components:
(a)   Decentralized Support in the Sikasso. Segou and Mopti regions (US$2,500,000
base costs!
(i)    Promotional and technical assistance. In each region, the project will help
exporters, traders, processors, producers, transporters to organize marketing
campaigns for selected key subsectors. As many of these actors are currently
poorly organized and skilled, key products for these regions do not compete well
on their potential markets. During preparation, potential beneficiaries have
identified potatoes, mangoes, dried fruits, and maize as key products for Sikasso,
and onions and rice as key products for Segou. Key products for the Mopti region
are likely to be livestock by-products and dried fish, as well as vegetables.
The promotional and technical assistance packages, some of which were tested in
Sikasso during project preparation, are likely to include the following activities and
steps:



- 14-
(1)   establishing marketing targets and promotion campaigns, mostly with
exporters and traders, based on market studies and contacts in potential
markets;
(2)   organizing workshops and visits with actors involved, including research
and extension services, to identify quantity, quality of products, timing of
harvest, delivery, transport, and marketing and support needed at each
step, and prepare a detailed campaign program;
(3)    organizing meetings and field trips with rural financial institutions and
banks on the basis of this detailed campaign program;
(4)   organizing applied research, demonstrations, and extension services on
production, post-harvest, marketing and agroprocessing technologies, to be
implemented through, or in collaboration with, the national extension and
research services;
(5)   organizing and financing fairs, competitions, seminars, inter- and intra-
professional workshops;
(6)    setting and implementing quality control mechanisms, with entrepreneurs
and public services, and providing them with the appropriate training;
(7)    monitoring the implementation of marketing programs at all stages,
including post market studies on targeted markets, and organizing
workshops to review and draw practical lessons from the results of the
marketing program.
(ii)   Training and Information services. As indicated in sector studies and as
experienced in the Sikasso test, most private entrepreneurs in rural and semi-urban
areas, from producers to traders and exporters, are lacking essential information
and knowledge about contractual, legal, regulatory, financial procedures, about
potential markets, agroprocessing and storage technologies, and about marketing
techniques and advertising techniques. Based on an annual survey of priority
needs of the beneficiaries, the project will thus provide training and information to
them with the following activities:
(1)    collecting and disseminating market information (price, quantities) on
national, regional and international markets, through rural radio programs
and publications (such programs are already being used for dissemination
of market information on local grain);
(2)    collecting and disseminating legal, fiscal, contractual, and regulatory
information relevant to agroprocessing and exporting activities, to help
producers and informal traders use simple contracts when dealing with
exporters or importers (brochures and displays, presenting simple contract
format, fiscal and quality standard requirements, and possibly specific
workshops will be prepared with project technical assistance and
financing); and
(3)   organizing technical workshops, field visits, or "open houses" to publicize
and demonstrate "good practices" and innovations for production, post-
harvest, marketing, storage and agroprocessing technologies developed
through filed trials and demonstration programs (started during preparation
in Sikasso) for existing low-cost technologies for cool storage and for



- 15-
products drying, the project providing technical assistance and financing for
these activities conducted in close coordination with the national extension
and research services.
(iii)   Construction and rehabilitation of wholesale market facilities. Sikasso, Segou and
Mopti need proper public wholesale marketing facilities with appropriate cool
storage areas to enhance the quality and reduce the loss of fresh products. The
project includes provisions to finance such public facilities in each region. A
preliminary project for a simple market infrastructure with low-cost cool storage
was presented by the Sikasso Chamber of Agriculture at appraisal. The preparation
of feasibility studies, the procurement of the works, their preparation and
supervision, and the procurement of the lease contract for the management of the
facilities will be subcontracted to AGETIPE or other qualified specialists.
(iv)   Lease. use and costs recovery arrangements for wholesale markets facilities. The
project will provide technical assistance to prepare and monitor the subcontracting
arrangements (para. 4.32), and to set up and monitor the lease, use and cost
recovery arrangements for the wholesale market facilities. The management and
maintenance of these facilities will be delegated under a lease contract, on the
basis of which the lesser will be able to collect user-fees from beneficiaries.
(v)    Individualized on-demand technical assistance to entrepreneurs. The project will
provide technical assistance on request to private entrepreneurs with a specific
project, on a fee basis (para. 4.21). This support will be mostly subcontracted to
match the specific needs of each individual request. These services are likely to
include:
(1)   individual consultations to help identify the market and the appropriate
marketing channel and advertising strategy, as well as the appropriate
product quality and packaging and processing technologies;
(2)    guidance and implementation of  tests on improved technologies for
processing, storage, packaging and on handling and transport strategy;
(3)   identification of regulations and procedures for establishing  a business
enterprise, partnerships, and contractual arrangements;
(4)    preparation of complete feasibility studies and support to search for
financing;
(5)    assistance in accounting  and  management systems and  procedures,
including procurement, work organization, fiscal obligations, obtaining
investment code and other incentives; and
(6)    follow-up and technical back-up during implementation of project.
(vi)   Institutional strengthening of the Regional Chambers of Agriculture. The chambers
of agriculture, representative bodies for all entrepreneurs involved in agricultural
and agroprocessing activities, have a crucial role to play in supporting project
activities in the field, and will be closely associated to all services provided under
the component of decentralized support in the three regions. One key objective of



-16-
the project is to gradually transfer the provision of essential services, tested in the
context of this pilot project, to the chambers of agriculture. In order to do so, the
project will provide technical assistance, training (workshops and study tours)
and equipment to chambers of agriculture in Sikasso, Segou and Mopti to insure
sufficient capacity of their elected representatives and staff to take over the
provision of selected key services. Those services could include:
(1)    market organization, such as setting up of market days, and organization of
the set-up, the management and maintenance of   market facilities,
particularly wholesale markets;
(2)    provision of market information from  other regions of Mali or from
potential neighboring markets;
(3)    participation  in the organization  of specific  extension  and  research
programs;
(4)    organization of information and training workshops on simple contract
format, product quality standard, agroprocessing technologies;
(5)    organization of local fairs and study tours, to attract potential market
partners for the region;
(6)    organization of regular contacts, field tours for rural financial institutions
and banks to foster their involvement into key agroprocessing sub-sectors;
and
(7)    monitoring of lease contracts for wholesale markets.
(b)    Support packages to subsector professional associations (US$ 2.031.000 base
costs). Support packages will be provided to three subsector professional associations
dealing with high-value products for sophisticated and competitive markets, AMELEF
(fruits and vegetables exports), MPCP (hides and skins exports), and another association
active in the sheanut/oilseeds subsector. These packages will include (i) institutional
strengthening of these professional associations with specialized TA, training, intemships,
research, study funds and equipment, and (ii) construction and rehabilitation of collective
facilities related to the activities of these professional associations.
(i)    Institutional strengthening of professional associations.The project will provide
mostly specialized technical assistance (US$1,438,000), with teams of international
and local experts, as well as funding for training, study tours, internships and fairs,
for research packages will also be available to the professional associations.
Finally, the project will provide basic office equipment to selected professional
associations. This support aims at helping these associations organize and provide
the following support services to their members and to the entire marketing chain
in their subsector:
(1)    conducting market studies particularly on European markets (but also
emerging middle-east markets) and providing updated market information;
(2)    designing market strategies, including quality level, target markets, and
timing of exports, as well as transport strategies (for fresh products, air
freight or maritime shipments);



- 17-
(3)   conducting tests, with limited quantities (as was done during preparation
with mangoes, and hides and skins);
(4)    organizing targeted training and supervision for export trials and camnpaigns
for entrepreneurs involved in production, handling, processing and
transport of products, with the support of the national extension and
research services;
(5)   training to exporters and traders for contracts, insurance, letters of credit,
and preparation of requests for bank financing;
(6)   identifying research priorities and subcontracting research packages to a
research institution;
(7)    contacting importers, and ensuring representation in importing countries
and in fairs,
(8)   negotiating transport and/or freight agreements;
(9)    participating in the design of standards and packaging, based on updated
information on regulations and consumer demands on targeted foreign
markets;
(10)  lobbying Government for appropriate incentives and participating in the
management of STABEX requests and funds;
(11)  designing promotion strategies for the subsector; and
(12)  reinforcing cooperation with comparable associations in neighboring
countries.
(ii)    Construction and/or rehabilitation of collective facilities. The project will also
finance the rehabilitation and/or creation of handling and processing collective
storage facilities needed for exportation of fruits and vegetables, hides and skins or
other products, and organize the use and cost recovery of these facilities through
lease arrangements. The preparation of feasibility studies, the procurement of the
works, their preparation and supervision, and the procurement of the lease
contract for the management of the facilities will be subcontracted to AGETIPE or
other qualified specialists.
(c)    Agency's Management and the Agricultural Processing and Marketing Information
Exchange Network (US$1,084,000 base costs). The project will provide funding for the
Agency's headquarters, to be located in Bamako, from which coordination, supervision
and backstopping will be provided to the regional branches and to the professional
associations.Technical backstopping to decentralized support activities and to the support
packages to the professional associations will be provided through the agricultural
processing and marketing exchange information network. The network's activities will be
closely coordinated with the other components of the project and will also be coordinated
with databases from other projects, such as APEP's, and will include: (i) market studies
and consumer surveys, (ii) establishment and regular updates of a roster for consultants,
resource people and institutions (NGOs), and (iii) establishment and operation of a data
bank on agricultural trading and processing activities.
(i)    Market studies and consumer surveys. These will relate to key subsectors selected
for support, both on Malian markets and on neighboring countries. The preliminary
market studies conducted during the preparation in Dakar and Abidjan have



-18-
provided already valuable information to guide the selection of activities of the
regional programs. These surveys will be subcontracted.
(ii)   Establishment and regular updates of a roster for consultants. This roster will be
organized according to specific skills and experience, and prequalifications to
perform subcontracted technical assistance, studies and training in the context of
the project. This network will also maintain a roster of resource persons and
institutions with experience and competencies in the agroprocessing sector for ad
hoc support to the project activities.
(iii)  Establishment and maintenance of a data bank. The data bank will include updated
informnation on market prices, product quality standards, post harvest technologies
and marketing techniques. All documents and periodicals will be referenced in an
annotated bibliography, organized by subsectors, to provide readily available
information services on demand. The network will also issue a bi-monthly bulletin
on key information in agroprocessing to be published in the local press and, twice a
year, will prepare media programs on agroprocessing activities.
(d)   Access to Credit (US$93.000 base costs)Banks and rural financial institutions are
currently not involved in agroprocessing activities, except for cotton, rice and grain with
the backstopping of institutions such as CMDT and Office du Niger. A workshop
conducted at appraisal between agroprocessing entrepreneurs and banks has confirmed
that Malian bankers are very reluctant to lend to that sector because of their lack of
knowledge of the activities and the entrepreneurs of this sector. The fourth component
will then aim at bridging the current gap and developing cooperation between agricultural
processing and marketing enterprises, and banking and financial institutions, through (i)
the organization of workshops and meetings between entrepreneurs and banks and
financial institutions, and (ii) training and study tours on agricultural processing for
banking and financial sector staff. The workshops, training modules and study tours will
cover mangoes, green beans, hides and skins and other key subsectors. Banks' staff will be
the beneficiaries of this training component on a cost-sharing basis (50 percent). The
training activities will be subcontracted to teams of local and international consultants.
B. Institutional Arrangements. Implementation. and Operation
Institutional Set-up
4.07        The Government's new policy of delegating some of its traditional functions to
professional organizations, has been demonstrated by recent legislation (Law NO 93-044 of
August 4, 1993, and Decree N0 93-295 of August 18, 1993) relative to the Regional Chambers of
Agriculture of Mali and their federated body, the Permanent Assembly of the Chambers of
Agriculture of Mali (APCAM). The legislation empowers APCAM, and any of the Regional
Chambers of Agriculture, to create an entity or enterprise to which it can delegate implementation
responsibilities for all or part of the missions provided for by the law. Signature of an agreement
between the Government and APROFA, by which the Government delegates to APROFA full
responsibility for project implementation, would be a condition of effectiveness. Since APCAM is



-19-
not an implementing agency, it will set up a project implementation entity, the "Agricultural
Trading and Processing Promotion Agency", APROFA by its French acronym, to which it will
entrust management of the project. Creation of the Agency will be a condition of effectiveness.
The Government will exercise overall project supervision through the Ministry of Rural
Development and Environment. A consultative committee, comprised of representatives of
Governmental agencies whose activities complement or reinforce the project's interventions and
of representatives of beneficiaries, will play an advisory role. A provisional steering committee
has already been operating during project preparation.
4.08        The Agency will be fully autonomous and will operate along the lines defined by
the Government/APROFA agreement and according to the rules and procedures defined in the
Procedures Manual, which have been agreed-to by Government during negotiations.
4.09        The principles underlying the "Convention" between Government and APROFA
and those underlying the Procedures Manual of the Agency, the schedule for their preparation by
a consulting firm, the specific mission of the Consultative Committee, as well as the list of
institutions to be represented in it, have been discussed and agreed upon with Government and
APCAM during the appraisal. Government has already submitted drafts of the "Convention", of
the Procedures Manual, and of the proposed mandate and composition of the Consultative
Committee. Agreement with IDA on the "Convention", on the Procedures Manual, and on the
mandate and composition of the Consultative Committee was obtained at negotiations. Signature
of the "Convention" by Government and APROFA and the establishment of the Agency
(APROFA) will be conditions of Credit effectiveness.
Organization
4.10        The Agency, to be located in Bamako, will have streamlined operating structures,
and will be responsible for overall management and coordination of project activities, for direct
oversight of support packages to the specialized professional associations, and for development
and maintenance of the agricultural processing and marketing exchange network, already started
during project preparation, that will be made easily accessible to the regional branches and to the
subsector professional organizations. The Agency will have in full operation three regional
branches, to be located in Sikasso, Segou and Mopti, which will be responsible for promoting
high potential agroprocessing activities in the region by providing: (a) polyvalent support to all
entrepreneurs involved in agroprocessing in the region (b) individualized on-demand support to
entrepreneurs or groups of entrepreneurs involved in agricultural processing and marketing
activities; and (c) managerial and organizational support to Regional Chambers of Agriculture.
Operational Procedures
4.11        Annual programs and prioritization of activities and beneficiaries. Each year, the
regional branches of the Agency will prepare a program of activities and corresponding budget
after consultations with local beneficiaries (workshops using the participatory ZOPP method) and
the regional Chamber of Agriculture. The agency will also prepare an annual detailed program and
budget for support to the professional associations. The agency will then consolidate its overall



-20-
program of activities and, budget, to be submitted for comments each year to the consultative
committee, including APCAM, and to the MDRE. The proposed format for annual program and
budget is included in the manual of procedures. The Agency will select and prioritize activities
and beneficiaries to be supported by the project in the context of these main criteria:
(a)    The key subsector activities and the products supported by the project must: (i)
represent a significant share of agroprocessing activities at the regional or national
level, (ii) benefit to a large number of beneficiaries, particularly small holders and
women in rural and semi-urban areas (large firms will be referred to APEP or
APDF (para. 3.04), and (iii) have a good potential for impact on growth and
income generation.
(b)   The national professional associations to be supported must have been created on
their own members' initiative, such as AMELEF (fruits and vegetables exports)
and MPCP (hides and skins exports), and must demonstrate adequate leadership in
enhancing the performance of the subsector.
(c)    All entrepreneurs who want to receive support from the project will assume full
financial risks of their activities promoted by the project, including export and
marketing tests, as the project will only provide essentially technical assistance and
training.
(d)   Private entrepreneurs requesting individual support from the project will have to
pay the set fee prior to receiving any services from the Agency.
4.12         Provision of Services. Subcontracting. and Cooperative Agreements. To provide
the proposed support services, the Agency will rely on the expertise of its own staff and on
information available from the agricultural trading and processing exchange network, on
subcontracts to private consultants, to specialized agencies and to NGO's and other institutions,
and on cooperative agreements with specialized Government services and/or non governmental
organizations (NGOs).  Subcontracts to consultants will be awarded according to Bank's
Guidelines on use of Consultants, as set forth in the Procedures Manual, and will be based on the
roster of consultants and resource people and institutions developed and regularly updated within
the agricultural trading and processing exchange network component.
4.13         The Agency will set up such umbrella cooperative agreements (Convention Cadre)
with the national agricultural research institute (Institut d'Economie Rurale or IER) for relevant
research on priority agroprocessing and post-harvest technologies, with CMDT and Direction
Regionale Sikasso for extension services to be provided in the Sikasso region, and with the Office
du Niger and national extension program (PNVA) for provision of extension services in the Segou
and Mopti regions. Proposals for these agreements have been reviewed during negotiations, and
the signing of these agreements will be a condition of effectiveness. Activities to be undertaken
under these umbrella agreements and potential supplementary financing by the project will be
jointly specified in annual activity programs. Only incremental equipment, materials, and/or
training directly related to research and extension activities undertaken in connection with this
project will qualify for financing. Such financing will require IDA's prior approval.



-21 -
4.14         Relationships with other Services and Institutions. To avoid duplication and insure
complementarity of efforts, the Agency will refer support seekers to other specialized support
agencies, projects and programs such as the EEC and Canadian small and medium enterprise
support funds (PMI/PME), PRMC's food aid programs, CILSS's support program to grain
processing (PROCELOS), and USAID's APEX decentralized support program to the livestock
sector. All formal sector agroprocessing enterprises that qualify will be referred to the Private
Sector Promotion Agency (APEP) for individualized support, and to IFC's APDF/AEF for
financing requests. CECI, the Canadian NGO specialized in food processing (para. 2.14), will
participate in this pilot project by funding an agroprocessing technologies specialist to be based in
the Sikasso regional support unit.
4.15         The project will not finance agroprocessing investments or operations, but will
provide limited funding for an increased dialogue between agribusiness and financial institutions.
Requests for investment finance studies will be referred to BNDA, other banks, and/or to the
newly created "Credit Initiative", formerly a FED/PME/PMI project. In view of the beneficial
effects of improved rural infrastructure on agricultural trading and processing activities,
coordination and complementarity will be pursued with regards to rural roads priority programs
to be scheduled for implementation under the IDA-financed Transport Sector project.
4.16         The Private Irrigation Project under preparation would be implemented in close
coordination with this project, as there is a strong complementarity between the goals and
activities of the two projects.
Implementation Schedule
4.17         Implementation will proceed in phases. During the first two years, only two
regional branches will be set-up in Sikasso and Segou, which have obvious potential for
agroprocessing. One support package to AMELEF, the fruit and vegetable exporters professional
association, has already been defined and another one is being prepared for the "Mutuelle des
Professionels des Cuirs et Peaux" (MPCP), the hides and skins exporters cooperative. The third
regional branch, to be located in Mopti, and the support package to a third professional
association, that of the oilseeds and sheanut producers, will be started after the mid-term review.
Conditions of disbursement for these is submission to IDA at the midterm review of satisfactory
proposals. The midterm review will assess the impact and performance of the first phase and
make recommendations to improve project design and implementation.
Local Contribution to Project Funding and Cost Recovery
4.18         The Government will contribute to salaries and operational costs of four high level
staff to be positioned at APCAM, and at the Regional Chambers of Agriculture in Sikasso, Segou,
and Mopti. This contribution is estimated at US$400,000, or about 6 percent of total project
costs. The Government will also be contributing to project implementation through the research
and extension activities to be carried out in the context of the Cooperative agreements between
the Agency and IER, PNVA, and CMDT/DRA.



-22-
4.19         The three professional associations will assume full financial responsibility of all
administrative and logistical costs associated with support activities they receive from the project
(secretarial support, local travel and per-diem for their members, etc.).
4.20         Beneficiary entrepreneurs' participation in financing the delivery cost of support
services is a key factor for ensuring that services provided by the project will match the needs of
entrepreneurs, and is essential to the sustainability of many of the project's activities beyond the
life of the project. The Agency will implement a cost recovery scheme that is acceptable to IDA.
A proposed cost recovery scheme, included in the Procedures Manual, has been reviewed and
agreed upon during negotiations.
4.21         The proposed scheme requires, for convenience purposes, that payments be made
on a flat fee basis, except for feasibility and financing studies which will be charged on a
percentage basis (2.5 percent of investment amount, as is the current practice with other programs
and institutions). Payments will be required for:
(a)    all documentation pertaining to technical, regulatory, financial and market
information provided to them;
(b)    participation in project sponsored public events (fairs, competitions);
(c)    participation in training sessions and workshops;
(d)    use of project-financed market infrastructure (regional wholesale markets and
collective handling and cold storage facilities); and
(e)   all on-demand individualized support services.
4.22         Cost recovery is estimated at about 20 percent of incremental costs for: (a), (b)
and (c). Fees for (d) will be collected through lease contracts awarded to private enterprises who
will insure proper maintenance and management of the facilities and collect user fees according to
an agreed-to fee schedule. Contributions from (e) are expected to cover 50 percent of the
incremental cost of services provided directly by the Agency's staff, and 100 percent of the cost
of services subcontracted to outside consultants. Total beneficiaries' contributions are estimated
at about US$400,000, or about 6 percent of total project costs.
4.23         The adequacy of the local funding arrangements, and of beneficiaries' cost
recovery scheme will be evaluated at the midterm review.
C. Status of Project Preparation
Progress of Project Preparation
4.24         Project design was based on the white cover sector report completed in June 1993,
which analyzed the potential for, and constraints to, the development of agricultural processing
and trading in Mali. Preparation was carried out by a local inter-ministerial working group with



-23 -
the help of a local consulting firm, which has been appointed to monitor all local preparation
activities, relying on strong participation from the private sector. Preparation started in 1993 with
ZOPP participatory workshops involving potential private sector beneficiaries in July (Bamako)
and September (Sikasso) to discuss the conclusions of the sector report and identify services to be
provided by the project. It then continued with the following activities: (a) assistance from the
Austrian Consultant Trust Fund in the design of a development program for the horticultural
sector, with the implementation of small trial export operation, (b) workshops in July 1994 with
AMELEF and MDRE to establish their export promotion strategy and action plan (AMELEF
participated in regional workshops with COLEACP in June, September and October 1994 to
coordinate the upcoming green bean campaign with exporters from neighboring countries, and to
negotiate the transport and export program with Air Afrique and European importers); (c) design
and set-up, also on a trial basis, of a small informal unit to promote private initiatives in
agroprocessing through the provision of contacts, information, and flexible and multidisciplinary
technical assistance (the design of this unit was proposed by the Sikasso workshop and it was
launched in July 1994); (d) workshops between banks, national agricultural services and
AMELEF conducted in November 1994, and (e) specific studies. An FAO-CP team joined the
Bank team for a preparation mission in October 1993 and another mission was conducted by a
Bank team in April 1994. Appraisal was carried out in November 1994.
Lessons from Project Preparation Activities
4.25         An export test for about 17 tons of mangoes, run with AMELEF participation and
support from Freshconsult, demonstrated that mango exports by sea routes are feasible and less
costly than air freight. During this test, Malian entrepreneurs demonstrated that they can, with the
right support, master the whole chain of post-harvest technologies and operations from
harvesting, to packaging, to refrigerated land and sea transport, all the way to the delivery of a
good-quality production for auction to European distributors. The test not only revealed the
weaknesses at each step of the chain, but also presented many tangible improvements that can be
introduced in the short term and the long term.
4.26         Under the leadership of the Malian preparation coordinator, a team  of two
consultants has set up in August 1994 a regional unit in Sikasso, a high potential area for fruits,
vegetables, and oilseeds, for a test program of support to regional agroprocessing activities. The
experience which is to be continued up to project effectiveness, has been very successful so far.
First, it is proving how powerful and satisfactory the "tutorship" role of the Chamber of
Agriculture could be in the field, at least at the regional level. Second, it shows how responsive
and committed beneficiaries are to a pragmatic approach to goal setting and problem solving
linked to their interests. The unit, in constant contact with potential beneficiaries, has identified its
best comparative advantage this year in the role. of catalyst and facilitator for an ambitious potato
and mango export project initiated by private entrepreneurs. In doing so, the unit is seen by all
beneficiaries involved as playing a unique role by bringing together at the local level the local
producers, the bankers, the national agricultural and research services, transporters, exporters,
etc., around one common purpose focused on an export campaign.
4.27         Each of these two tests revealed the need to promote and maintain a continuous
dialogue with all stakeholders based on a common purpose between private exporters/producers,



-24-
national support services and financial institutions. Following numerous regional and national
level workshops and meetings initiated during preparation, concrete results have already been
achieved. In Sikasso, the BNDA local branch has agreed to finance a test campaign, and
Agriculture and CMDT agents are contributing strongly to the test. In Bamako, the bankers, the
PNVA extension services and the exporters are currently negotiating a first "test" agreement for
the upcoming export season of green beans and mangoes. The difficulties and successes
experienced during these tests have helped the Malian preparation team tremendously to prioritize
and redesign the objectives and actions of the proposed pilot project. This "learning by doing"
approach with beneficiaries, supported through a continuous client consultation process of ZOPP
workshop, will continue to be one of the basic principles throughout the implementation of this
project.
4.28         Activities up to effectiveness will be:
(a)   an export test to be completed by July 1995, on the basis of a study of the hides
and skins subsector done in November 1994;
(b)   a study of the sheanuts/exotic products subsector, along with statistical and
competitiveness analysis, and an environmental impact evaluation;
(c)   preparation of the set-up of the decentralized unit in Segou, following
recommendations of a workshop conducted in Segou in October 1994;
(d)   a review  of the capacity-building needs of professional organizations and
Chambers of Agriculture to be involved in the project;
(e)   the ongoing operation of the test Regional Support Unit in Sikasso;
(f)   an assessment of the availability of rural credit for agroprocessing, particularly in
the first two regions to benefit from project activities;
(g)   market studies in neighboring countries (Cote d'Ivoire, Togo, Benin, Senegal) to
identify potential demand for Malian products; and
(h)   another workshop between banks, AMELEF and National Agricultural Services to
prepare the 1995 export campaign (mangoes and green beans).
D. Proiect Costs and Financing
4.29         Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties but including price and physical
contingencies and the refinancing of advances from the IDA PPF, are estimated at US$6.9 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$2.8 million. Base costs are estimated at
US$5.9 million at January 1995 prices. Price contingencies represent 11 percent of base costs
and assume domestic inflation of 5 percent in 1995, and 3 percent thereafter, and foreign inflation
of 2.5 percent. Physical contingencies represent 4 percent of base costs. Total costs do not



-25 -
include investments to be paid for by private entrepreneurs through self-financing and/or via
credit. Given the emphasis on technical assistance and transfer of know-how in this project, staff
(operating costs) and consultants' services represent the most important expenditures. The IDA
credit of US$6 million equivalent will finance 87 percent of total project costs, including all
foreign costs. Government and beneficiaries' contributions are estimated at 12 percent of project
costs. CECI, the Canadian NGO will participate as a start with I percent of project cost by
financing one agroprocessing specialist in Sikasso, but their contribution is likely to expand during
the implementation of the project. The beneficiaries' contribution, amounting to 6 percent on
average, will increase over the lifetime of the project through steady increases in fees charged for
individual support services, and through user fees charged on use of collective facilities and
equipment procured through the project. Direct Government contributions will amount to 6
percent with financing of the incremental staff and operating costs of Chambers of Agriculture
and APCAM in the context of the project. The Government will also contribute to the project
with the provision of publicly funded incremental extension and research services, under a
cooperative agreement with the project.
4.30            The  detailed  financing  plan  was finalized  at negotiations.    Allocation  of
Government and beneficiary contributions, and the disbursement mechanisms, were agreed upon
at negotiations.   Total project cost and financing  estimates are detailed in Annex  I and
summarized below. Preparation was funded by a Japanese Grant Facility, and an Austrian Trust
Fund. Further financing from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to cover preparation costs up to
the effectiveness date has been approved.
Table 1: Project Cost Summary
CFAF Millions      [       US$ million        l
Category                               Local    Foreign   Total     Local    Foreign    Total    % Foreign    %  Base
I______  _______                      _______  ______   Exchange    Cost
A. Threeregionalagencybranches         1014      315      1329      1.91     0.59      2.50    24          42
B   Sut to professional associations   312       764      1076      0.59     1.44      2.03    71          34
C. Agency and exchange network         515       60       575       0.97     0.11      1.08    10          18
D. Accesstocredit                      20        29       49        0.04     0.06      0.10    59          2
E.  PPF Refinancing                    0         133      133       0.00     0.25      0.25    100         4
Total Baseline Costs               1861      1301     3162      3.51     2.45      5.96    41          100
Physical Contingencies             57        87       143       0.11     0.16      0.27    61          5
Price Contingencies                245       100      345       0.46     0.19      0.65    29          11
Totbl Project Costs                2163      1488     3651      4.08     2.80      6.88    41          115
All cots calculated free of duties and direct/indirect taxes
E. On-lending and Administration of Funds
4.31            Proceeds of the IDA  credit would be passed on by Government to the project
implementing agency in grant form. This measure would be included in the Contractual
Agreement between the Government and APROFA whereby the Agency (APROFA) would be
entrusted with project management.



-26-
F. Procurement and Use of Consultants
4.32        The Agency, to be created before effectiveness, would be responsible for
procurement arrangements. Procurement of civil works would be delegated to AGETIPE or
other qualified specialists who would be responsible for the preparation of specifications,
evaluation of bids and supervision of construction. Procurement of civil works contracts,
comprising of the building of wholesale markets in two regions, and of rehabilitation works for
cold storage in Bamako, will be less than US$200,000 and would be unsuitable for ICB as foreign
firms will not be interested. Procurement of goods, comprising of vehicles and office equipment
and supplies, will also be small, and each contract below US$150,000. Procurement will be by
NCB and foreign firms, if interested, will be allowed to paiticipate. Shopping should be used for
contracts below US$ 30,000 each, aggregating to no more than US$ 100,000 for vehicles and
US$ 40,000 for equipment. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all procurement to be
carried out by the Agency would be in accordance with the Revised (1/95) Bank Guidelines for
Procurement for Goods and Works. The Agency management may hire a consultant familiar with
IDA procurement and disbursement procedures to carry out procurement of goods. The project
launch workshop scheduled for October 1995 will also provide procurement guidance to project
staff.
4.33        Consultant services under the proposed project will serve to provide: (a) direct
services to the Agency's operations, i.e. setting up the accounting system and procedures and
undertaking the internal audits (TORs included in Procedures Manual), and (b) technical support
to project beneficiaries such as preparation of feasibility studies, market surveys, export test runs,
etc. Most of these services are for short -term period. All consultant services would be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Bank's standard forms for
contracts will be used.
4.34        Bank prior review procedures will be followed with respect to contracts for goods
and works in excess of US$100,000, to all consultant contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or
more for selection of a consulting firm, and at US$50,000 or more for individual consultants.
Other contracts would be reviewed by the Bank ex-post on a sample basis (1 in 5) during project
supervision. Planned procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.
G. Disbursements
4.35        The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a five-year period from the date of Credit
effectiveness. This deviates from the standard disbursement profile for Government-managed
agricultural projects in Mali because project management will be entrusted to an autonomous
agency which is expected to have faster disbursement rates than those possible under central
administration procedures. All disbursement activities under this project will be managed by the
Agency. The closing date of the credit would be March 31, 2001, or six months after project
completion/termination. The expected schedule of disbursements is summarized in Table 3.



-27-
Table 2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
US$ million)
CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURES              ICB     NCB    OTHERS   NIF              TOTAL
Civil Works                             NA       0.60                            0.60
(0.54)                          (0.54)
Goods_
Vehicles                                  0.32     0.10                   0.42
(0.28)   (0.09)                (0.37)
Equipment                                 0.14     0.04                   0.18
(0.13)   (0.04)                (.17)
Consultants                                               2.10                   2.10
_ _  _  (2.10)            (2.10)
Training                                                  0.27       0.10 (a)    0.37
__ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ _ _ _   _(0.27)  (0.27)
Operating Costs                                           2.3        0.5 (a)     (3.0)
(2.3)      0.3 (b)     (2.3)
PPF Refinancing                                           0.25                   0.25
_  (0.25)   _     _        (0.25)
TOTAL COSTS                                                          0.9          6.9
-                       -       (6.0)
Notes: (i) All costs calculated free of duties and direct/indirect taxes
(ii) Figures in parentheses are the corresponding amounts to be financed by IDA.
(iii) NIF: Non IDA Financed
(a) Beneficiaries and CECI's contribution to operating costs and training.
(b) Government contribution to staff and other operating costs (Chambers of Agriculture, APCAM)
(iv) NA: not applicable.
Table 3: Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million, including contingencies)
IDA Fiscal Year                      1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      Total
3 Regional Agency Branches           0.76      0.34     0.74      0.53     0.55      2.92
Support to Professional Organizations    0.39  0.26     0.76      0.48     0.49      2.38
Agency and Exchange Network          0.54      0.17     0.18      0.16     0.16      1.21
Access to Credit                     0.05      0.05     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.10
PPF Refinancing                      0.25                                            0.25
Total Project Costs                  2.z00    .2       1168    11.17       1.20    1687
All cods calculated fiee of duties and directdirect taxae
4.36          Disbursements of the IDA Credit will be fully documented, except for payments
against contracts of less than US$100,000, which would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the
Agency for review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for annual audits. In order to
facilitate disbursements, the Agency would establish, in a bank acceptable to IDA, a Special
Account into which IDA would, upon credit effectiveness, deposit an advance in CFAF of the



-28-
equivalent of US$500,000 for the management agency to cover IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. IDA would replenish the Special Account upon satisfactory proof of incurred
eligible expenditures.  Replenishment requests would be accompanied by up-to-date bank
statements and reconciliation of the Special Account. Disbursement categories, credit amount and
the share of expenditures to be financed by IDA are shown in Table 4 below.
4.37         In order to ensure that the agency does not subcontract feasibility studies or other
support to private entrepreneurs without adequate financing, the counterpart contribution from
the beneficiaries is required prior to subcontracting and provision of services. Moreover, to
ensure that IDA does not disburse all of its contribution without corresponding action by
Government/beneficiaries, agreement will be reached that will permit IDA to delay the approval at
the end of each year when the new activities program and budget are transmitted to IDA, should
the Government/beneficiaries have failed to make their contribution and the Agency failed to
enforce its manual of procedures.
Table 4: Allocation and Disbursement Categories of the IDA Credit
Categories                    Credit Amount Allocated           % of Expenditures*
(US$ million)                Financed by IDA
1. Civil Works                         0.48              90
2. Vehicles & Equipment                0.46              100 of foreign expenditures.
100 of local expenditures (ex factory costs)
90 of local expenditures
(for other items procured locally)
3. Consultants & Studies               1.90             100
4. Training and Research               0.24             100
5. Operating Costs                     2.05             100
6. PPF Refinancing                     0.25              100
7. Unallocated                         0.60             100
Total                                  6.00
All costs calculated free of duties and direct/indirect taxes
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
5.01         The Government will sign an agreement, or "Convention", by which it delegates
to APROFA full responsibility for project implementation. APROFA will set up the implementing
Agency, and delegate to it full authority for project management and implementation. The
Government will exercise overall project supervision through the Ministry of Rural Development
and Environment (MDRE).   A  consultative committee, comprised of representatives of
Governmental agencies whose activities complement or reinforce the project's interventions and
of representatives of beneficiaries, will play a strictly advisory role.



-29-
B. Manaeement and Coordination
5.02        The Agency (APROFA) will have full autonomy in managing the project. Its
headquarters will be staffed by a General Manager, an accountant/financial manager, a monitoring
and evaluation specialist, and a communications specialist to be in charge of the exchange
network and data bank. The regional branches will be staffed by an agroprocessing technology
specialist, an agricultural economist familiar with techniques of project appraisal and financial
analysis, and by a senior agricultural economist experienced in agricultural processing and
marketing issues, who will be responsible for the unit's management. The necessary support
personnel, as detailed in the cost tables, will also be financed by the project. Job descriptions for
all senior personnel have been prepared prior to negotiations and finalized during negotiations.
5.03        The Agency General Manager will be responsible for the preparation and
supervision of the support packages to the Agency Regional Branches and to the selected
professional associations, and will specifically insure:
(a)   the dissemination of information on the project's mandate and modes of
intervention (IEC campaign, with radio and other media);
(b)   the coordination and overseeing of project implementation;
(c)   the access of external auditors to the necessary information for the audit of project
accounts;
(d)   the recruitment of the personnel necessary for project implementation, including
consultants;
(e)   the coordination of project activities to be implemented by and with other
institutions such as PNVA and IER; and
(f)   the maintenance of relations with Government ministries and technical agencies,
NGOs, other parties involved in private sector promotion activities, including
APEP and AMADIP, and other donor initiatives.
5.04        The General Manager, with qualifications acceptable to IDA, has been selected by
a joint committee composed of Government and APCAM representatives, and participated in the
negotiations. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the performance of the General
Manager must at all times be acceptable to IDA, and that any change of the General Manager
would be discussed and agreed with IDA.
C. Proerammine and Budgeting Procedures
5.05        The Agency, through its regional branches and in coordination with professional
associations will prepare annual budgets for each project component, supported by an activities
program. The Agency will then submit, by August of each year, a consolidated Agency-wide
annual budget and work plan for review to the consultation committee, including APCAM, and to
MDRE, and IDA. The revised budget and program will be executed, unless objected to by IDA,



-30-
MDRE, and/or the Ministry of Finance within thirty (30) days of reception of the revised version.
Each regional branch will execute its annual program with funds transferred to its regional
account by the Agency. No budget will be transferred to the professional associations, and
disbursements of such expenditures will be made directly by the Agency.
D. Reporting. Monitoring, Suvervision, and Evaluation
5.06     Monitoring and evaluation will focus on: (a) the effectiveness of services provided to
private entrepreneurs, either by the Agency or by other institutions; and (b) the extent to which
the project has improved the technical and management performance of agroprocessing
entrepreneurs and that of their professional organizations, and (c) the project's impact on
agricultural processing activities and entrepreneurs. The Agency would be responsible for project
monitoring and evaluation, this task being the responsibility of the General Manager and the
Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, and IDA and MDRE will be responsible for ensuring proper
project supervision.
Reporting and Monitoring
5.07        The regional branches, the professional associations receiving support, and the
Agency would submit semi-annual progress reports. Based on these reports, and on regular visits
by the monitoring and evaluation specialist, the General Manager would prepare a semi-annual
consolidated progress report to be submitted to IDA, MDRE, and the Consultative Committee.
APCAM, IDA and MDRE will meet at least twice a year to discuss the semi-annual progress
reports and the annual evaluation reports, and to exchange views on project progress and on the
Agency's management and compliance with its operating procedures set forth in the "Convention"
and in the Agency's Procedures Manual. In order to facilitate monitoring, a detailed outline of
the semi-annual reports including specific performance indicators, has been agreed upon with
Government during negotiations.
Supervision
5.08        To ensure proper technical audits by IDA  and Government of project
implementation, a consulting firm will be selected to collect and analyze, on a yearly basis, data on
performance indicators and to assess progress in relation to project objectives and identify serious
implementation problems. Terms of reference for such technical audits, and the performance
indicators to be used have been agreed upon with Government at negotiations.
5.09        Performance of the project will be assessed according to the following
performance indicators:



-31 -
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators
Indicators                   before mid term review   After mid term
review
1. Decentralized Support
Establishment of Regional Branches          2                     1
Polyvalent Support Activities
Marketing campaigns                       2 each year           3 each year
Agroprocessing technology promotion      4 packages each year    6 packages each year
Regional agricultural fairs               2 each year           3 each year
Beneficiaries workshops                   4 each year           6 each year
On-demand Individual Support
Diagnostic for small agroprocessing firns  60 each year         90 each year
Feasibility/financing studies             30 each year          45 each year
Support to Chambers of Agriculture
Training sessions                         4 each year           6 each year
Workshops on market information           2 each year           3 each year
Wholesale Market Facilities                 I in  Sikasso, 1 in  1 in Mopti
Segou
2. Support to Professional Associations        AMELEF and MPCP    oilseeds/ sheanuts
Establishment of quality standards and labels   AMELEF and MPCP    oilseeds/ sheanuts
Establishment of market databases         2                     3
Export tests                              2 each year           3 each year
Professional workshops                    2 each year           3 each year
Training sessions                         AMELEF and MPCP    oilseeds/ sheanuts
Participation in trade fairs              AMELEF and MPCP    Oilseeds/ sheanuts
Advertising campaigns                    AMELEF arnd MPCP    Oilseeds/ sheanuts
3. Information Exchange Network
Market surveys                            2 each year           2 each year
Bi-monthly newsletters                    6 issues each year    6 issues each year
Consultant roster updates                 4 each year           4 each year
Product market information networks       1 workshop each year    1 workshop each year
4. Access to Credit
Training sessions                         1 each year           1 each year
Study tours                               1 each year           1 each year
Project Review and Impact Evaluation
5.10           At negotiations, the  project evaluation  system  has been  agreed  to  with
Government. This system will include a mid-term review and a project completion review. The
mid-term review will be carried out jointly by Government and IDA at the end of Year 2. This
review will aim at verifying the continued validity of the design assumptions in the light of
implementation experience, particularly in relation to cost recovery schemes, and assess whether
adjustments in the design or other aspects of the project are called for. This review will also
determine the extent to which the project has achieved its anticipated development impact, and
would address the issue of expanding project activities to the Mopti region and/or to a third
professional association, that of the Sheanut/exotic products subsector. Assurances have been
obtained from Government at negotiations that: (a) a specific period would be designated to carry
out the mid-term review; (b) Government will submit to IDA, not later than four weeks prior to
the mid-term review, a report by consultants evaluating project activities; and (c) soon after the



-32-
mid-term review, the recommendations would be implemented in accordance with an agreed
action plan. As a support to the review process, a baseline beneficiary survey will be conducted
prior to project start-up, and two beneficiary response surveys will be completed at mid term and
at the end of the project to analyze its impact. All surveys will be entrusted to an independent
consulting firm.
E. Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Monitorin!
5.11        The General Manager of the Agency has overall responsibility for project
accounting, auditing and reporting. He/she would submit to IDA: (a) semi-annual financial
statements on project expenditures; (b) annual work programs and budgets for the following year;
and (c) an Implementation Project Report (ICR) within six months of the Credit's closing date.
The project's accounting management, including the establishment of an accounting system,
would be carried out by a senior accountant with periodic assistance from a consulting firm. The
terms of reference for the consulting firm to be recruited were drafted during appraisal. The
establishment of the project's accounting system would be a condition of effectiveness. Project
accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited semiannually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. All disbursements under SOEs would be audited twice a year. The semi-
annual audit reports, including the management letter and proposed internal control
improvements, as well as semi-annual audit reports on SOEs, have been submitted to IDA within
three months of the end of each audit period. Assurances to this effect have been obtained from
Government during negotiations. Agreement between Government and IDA on these terms of
reference for the audits, the short-list of firms, selection procedures, as well as on the issuance by
Government of the letter of invitation to the short-listed firms to submit proposals, were a
condition of negotiations. The contract award for the audit of project accounts would be a
condition of effectiveness.
VI. BENEFITS. RISKS, SUSTAINABILITY. AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A. Proiect Benefits
6.01        Main project benefits would be higher growth rates in the agricultural trading and
agroprocessing sector, thus contributing to greater economic diversification and increased urban
and rural employment. This would be achieved by the project laying the groundwork for a strong
supply response to the CFAF devaluation through the provision of: (a) increased access
opportunities to local and regional markets, (b) increased exports, especially those of high value
products, and increased substitution for imported products; (c) improved capabilities of the
Regional Chambers of Agriculture and of subsector professional organizations to provide
demand-driven support services to private entrepreneurs. The project would also reduce the
incidence of poverty and enhance women's participation in and benefits from development, as
most of the project's potential beneficiaries would be small entrepreneurs, many of them women,
already involved in agricultural processing and trading activities and who seek to upgrade their
technical and managerial efficiency.



- 33 -
B. Project Risks
6.02         The project's main risks are: a) its linkages to Regional Chambers of Agriculture
and professional associations which are still rather weak and inexperienced, b) poor management
and misuse by the Agency of its autonomy in project implementation, and c) the abandonment by
Government of its present policy of support to the private sector. Precautions taken to minimnize
these risks include provisions for: (a) high selectivity in choosing Regional Chambers of
Agriculture and professional associations participating in implementation (b) no direct control of
funds by APCAM, Regional Chambers of Agriculture and/or professional associations
participating in project activities, (c) stringent management rules and procedures, especially with
regard to sub-contracting procedures, similar to those already used successfully in the
"AGETIPE" projects in the region, (d) strong monitoring of management performance, intensive
technical supervision, and regular evaluation of beneficiaries' response, and e) progressive
implementation, the second phase being built upon results of the first phase. The risk of a reversal
by Government of its current private sector support policies is rather slim in view of the growing
constituencies for these policies in Mali, and in view of the Bank/IMF dialogue with Government,
supported by the PFP, CAS, and Bank portfolio
C. Sustainability
6.03         The project is conceived as a research and development (R&D) and capacity
building investment which should lead the local institutions representing the private sector to be
strong and professional enough to select, manage and finance the services essential to private
entrepreneurs. This will be achieved by: (a) gradually reducing the needs for technical assistance
and other services through know-how transfer and capacity building during five years to the
benefit of leading professional associations, Chambers of Agriculture, and local producers
organizations, and (b) learning through trials the most effective services and techniques and
helping the same institutions to design and implement a cost recovery scheme. Long-term needs
for these services will be monitored during the project. The long-term sustainability of the
services will be measured by thie capacity of the Chambers of Agriculture and the professional
organizations to take over the provision of these services, reducing the need for an autonomous
agency financed from external sources
D. Environmental Impact
6.04         The project falls within environmental category C. The project will not finance
agro-industnres, but will focus on providing TA to small and medium agroprocessing activities
scattered in at least five regions.  Although no negative environmental impact is likely,
environmental concerns will be addressed during project implementation as they arise, and during
the mid-term review. The potential environmental impact of activities to be supported in the
second phase in the hides and skins subsector will be evaluated in the context of the subsector
study planned during the first phase.



-34-
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01        Formal linkages between the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
(MDRE), APCAM, the Agency, Regional Chambers of Agriculture, and the subsector
professional associations have been reviewed with Government officials during appraisal. The
appraisal mission has also reviewed:
(a)   a draft Agency Procedure Manual, and a draft "Convention" between Government
and the Agency created by APCAM, under which the Agency is responsible for
project implementation (para. 4.09);
(b)   terms of reference for the audit of project accounts (para. 5.11);
(c)   terms of reference for the establishment of the project's accounting system (para.
5.11);
(d)   proposals for Government and beneficiaries' contributions under the project, and
update estimates of project costs (para. 4.29);
(e)   the outline of semi-annual progress reports as well as the performance indicators to
be considered under the project (paras. 5.08 and 5.09); and
(f)   qualifications of the General Manager of the Agency, and procedures and schedule
for recruitment (paras. 5.03 and 5.04).
7.02        As Conditions of Negotiations, the Government has:
(a)   submitted to IDA a draft "Convention" between Government and the Agency
created by APCAM pertaining to implementation of the project and a draft
Procedures Manual of the Agency (para. 5.01);
(b)   recruited the Agency's General Manager, and agreed to have him participate in
negotiations (para. 5.04);
(c)   reached agreement with IDA on the TORs for the selection of auditors, a short list
of firms, selection procedures, and issuance by Government of a letter of invitation
for short-listed firms to submit proposals (para. 5.11);
(d)   submitted a draft of the mandate and composition of the Consultative Committee
(para. 5.01); and
(e)   drafted job descriptions of the Agency's staff (para. 5.02).
7.03        During Negotiations, assurances have been obtained that:



-35-
(a)   specific performance indicators, as well as the outline of the bi-annual reports on
progress of project implementation, would be agreed upon with IDA (paras. 5.07
and 5.08);
(b)   a specific period would be designated during which a mid-term review of the
project would be undertaken; that, not later than four weeks prior to such review,
Government would submit to IDA a consultants' report on project progress; and
that, four weeks after the mid-tern review, the recommendations would be
implemented in accordance with an agreed action plan (para. 5.10);
(c)   all procurement under the IDA credit would be made in accordance with the
Bank's Revised Guidelines for Procurement and Use of Consultants dated January
1995 (para. 4.32);
(d)   project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited semi-annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and that all disbursements under SOEs
would be audited semi-annually (para. 5.11);
(e)   Government would submit to IDA, within three months of the end of each audit
period, the financial audit reports, including a separate opinion of the auditors and
proposed internal control improvements, as well as audit reports of SOEs (para.
5.11);
(f)   the performance of the General Manager of the Agency would have to be at all
times acceptable to IDA, and that any change of the General Manager would be
discussed with and acceptable to IDA (para. 5.04); and
(g)   the Agency's Procedures Manual and the Convention between the Agency
APROFA and Government would be agreed upon with IDA (paras. 4.08 and
4.09);
(h)   a project start-up workshop will take place immediately after effectiveness (para.
4.32);
(i)   detailed financing plan and Government and beneficiaries' contributions to project
costs, including the respective expenditure categories and disbursement modalities,
would be specified (para. 4.30); and
(j)   proposed umbrella cooperative agreements (Convention cadre) with Agricultural
Research Institute (EER) and with national extension services (PNVA, CMDT,
Direction Regionale Sikasso, ON) will be agreed upon (para. 4.13).
7.04        Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)   signature of the "Convention" between Government and APROFA (paras. 4.07
and 4.09);



- 36-
(b)   creation of the Agency (para. 4.07),
(c)   signature of a contract for the audit of project accounts (para. 5.1 1);
(d)   establishment of the project's accounting system (para. 5.11), and
(e)   signature of the umbrella cooperative agreements between APROFA and IER and
the national extension services (PNVA, CNMT, Direction Regionale Sikasso, ON)
(para. 4.13).



ANNEX 1
-37 -                                                               Pagel ofl5
Ti - PROJECT COST SUMMARY
MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/4-3-95
Project Cost ht.ary
I     I Total
(FCFA '000)                  (USS 'DOO)         Foreign    Bass
Local    Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. PROJECT AGCY  IN DM0tO
Project Monitoring                                 351,172.5  13,872.0 365,044.5   662.6    26.2   698.8             4        12
Database/Networking                                263,359.0  46,410.0 209,769.0   308.2    87.6   395.8            22         7
Subtotal PR0JECT ACECY IN DAbQO                       514,531.5  60,282.0 574,813.5   970.8   113.7 1,084.6            10        18
S. 3 REUOIAL AtCY BRUAIQS  /a
Capacity Building for 3 CARs                       242,067.0  47,980.8 290,047.8   456.7    90.5   547.3            17         9
Polyvalent Support to Regional Agro-processing 480,831.0 266,730.0 747,567.0   907.2   503.3 1,410.5                36        24
Support on Demand for Private Enterprises          291,558.8          - 291,558.8   550.1          -   550.1         -         9
Subtotal 3 REIL  AGENCY  BRt8C5                       1,014,463 314,710.8 1,329,174 1,914.1   593.8 2,507.9             24       42
C. SUPPORT PACKAGES TO PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS  312,060.0 764,449.2 1,076,509   588.8 1,442.4 2,031.1                 71       34
D. SUPPORT ACCESS TO CREDIT                            20,160.0  29,376.0  49,536.0    3B.0    55.4    93.5             59        2
E. PPF REFINANCING                                             - 132,500.0 132,500.0         -   250.0   250.0         100        4
Total DAS     COSTS                                     1,861,218 1,301,318 3,162,532 3,511.7 2,455.3 5,967.0            41       100
Physical Contingencies                                56,607.3  86,788.7 143,396.1   106.8   163.8   270.6            61         5
Price Contingencies                                  245,057.1  99,659.3 344,716.4   462.4   188.0   650.4            29        11
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    2,162,879 1,487,766 3,650,645 4,080.9 2,807.1 6,888.0             41       115
\a CAR (Chambre d'Agriculture Regionals)
Tue Apr 04 14:53:38 1995
MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/4-3-95
Project Cost SJary
I     4 Total
(FCFA '000)                  (USS '0001         Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
I. XCowet  .t Costs
A. Civil Works                                80,325.0 182,070.0 262,395.0   151.6   343.5   495.1            69         8
B. Vehicles                                  38,220.0 148,512.0 186,732.0    72.1   280.2   352.3             80         6
C. Equipment                                 73,316.3           -  73,316.3   138.3         -   138.3          -         2
D. Consultants
Local                                    213,360.0          - 213,360.0   402.6          -   402.6         -         7
Expatriates                                       - 733,380.0 733,380.0         - 1,383.7 1,383.7        100        23
Subtotal Consultants                        213,360.0 733,380.0 946,740.0   402.6 1,383.7 1,786.3             77        30
S. Training                                  68,460.0  99,756.0 168,216.0   129.2   188.2   317.4             59        5
F. PPF REFDIANCING                                   - 132,500.0 132,500.0         -   250.0   250.0         100         4
Total Xnwsts-t Costs                             473,681.3 1,296,218 1,769,899   893.7 2,445.7 3,339.4            73        56
XX. Reatnt Costa
A. Operating Coats
Travel                                     5,250.0   5,100.0  10,350.0        9.9      9.6    19.5        49         -
Salaries                                 1,084,608          - 1,084,608 2,046.4          - 2,046.4          -       34
Office expenses and supplies             238,770.0          - 238,770.0   450.5          -   450.5          -        8
Subtotal Operating Costs                    1,328,628   5,100.0 1,333,728 2,506.8         9.6 2,516.5          -       42
B. Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles  58,905.0              -  58,905.0   111.1         -   111.1          -         2
Total Rearrznt Costs                             1,387,533   5,100.0 1,392,633 2,618.0         9.6 2,627.6         -        44
Total  1AW,    COSTS                              1,861,214 1,301,318 3,162,532 3,511.7 2,455.3 5,967.0            41       100
Physical Contingencies                           56,607.3  86,788.7 143,396.1   106.8   163.8   270.6            61         5
Price Contingencies                             245,057.1  99,659.3 344,716.4   462.4   188.0   650.4            29        11
Total PROJECT COSTS                               2,162,879 1,487,766 3,650,645 4,080.9 2,807.1 6,888.0            41       115
Tue Apr 04 14:53:45 1995



MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Prcaotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/8-3-95
Project Cpon ente by Year
Totals Including Contingencies (FCFA '000)                   Totals Including Contingencies (US$ '000)
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       Total    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total                   h,
A.  WOJCT AGntT IN BAMAKO
Project Monitoring                                  112,521.6  73,309.4  75,508.6  77,773.9  80,107.1 419,220.6   212.3   138.3   142.5   146.7   151.1   791.0
Database/Networking                                 174,186.9  19,244.0  19,758.2   8,37s.0   8,619.5 230,183.7   328.7    36.3    37.3    15.9    16.3   434.3                       C)
Subtotal PROJDCT AG14Y IN BEMO                         286,708.5  92,553.3  95,266.8  86,148.9  88,726.7 649,408.3   541.0   174.6   179.7   162.5   167.4 1,225.3
D. 3 RIO8L A6NCf BRAIKOS  /a
Capacity Building for 3 CAs                          97,692.1  38,107.9  86,622.3  56,224.1  57,902.2 336,548.6   184.3    71.9   163.4   106.1   109.2   635.0                        0
Polyvalent Support to Regional Agro-processing 254,146.5  92,732.4 229,523.9 187,258.7 151,517.5 875,179.0   479.5   175.0   433.1   277.8   285.9 1,651.3
Support on Deand for Private Enterprises             53,509.6  48,686.2  78,530.9  77,476.8  79,801.1 338,004.5   101.0    91.9   148.2   146.2   150.6   637.7                        0
Subtotal 3 REriO8AL AGICT BRANCHES                     405,348.2 179,526.5 394,677.0 280,959.6 289,220.8 1,549,732   764.8   338.7   784.7   530.1   545.7 2,924.0
C. SUPPORT PACKAGES TO PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS  207,012.2 137,686.0 400,757.2 255,618.3 262,401.4 1,263,475   390.6   259.8   756.1   482.3   495.1 2,383.9
0. SUPPORT ACCESS TO CREDIT                             28,886.6  25,149.6   1,913.4   1,965.2   2,018.4  55,533.2    46.2    47.5              3.6      3.7      3.8   104.8             -3
E. PPF REFINANCING                                     132,500.0           -          _          _          - 132,500.0   250.0               -        -            -   250.0            Cd)
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     1,056,056 434,915.4 892,614.4 624,692.0 642,367.2 3,650,645 1,992.6   820.6 1,684.2 1,178.7 1,212.0 6,8800.0
\a CAR (Chanbre d'Agriculture Regionale)
Tue Apr 04 14:54:13 1995
MALI                                                                    V           00
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filenamae: AGPRPPF)/4-3-95                                 :P     
Expenditure Accounts by Years                                                         O
0
Totals Including Contingencies (FCFA '000)                   Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000) 
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       Total    1996    1997       1998    1999    2000    Total                      Z
I. Inveateent Coste
A. Civil works                               166,598.0           - 156,060.0           _          - 322,658.0   314.3          -   294.5         -        -   608.8
B. Vehicles                                  136,174.7           -  85,514.3           -          - 221,689.0   256.9          -   161.3         -        -   418.3
C. Equipment                                  59,776.2           -  31,913.1           -          -  91,689.3   112.8          -    60.2         -        -   173.0
D. Consultante
Local                                      37,599.7  38,727.6  57,939.7  59,574.9  61,362.2 255,104.2    70.9    73.1   109.1   112.4   115.8   481.3
Expatriates                               128,304.7 131,512.3 196,389.9 189,388.4 194,123.1 839,716.5   242.1   248.1   370.5   357.3   366.3 1,584.4
Subtotal Consultante                         165,904.4 170,240.0 254,229.6 246,963.3 255,485.3 1,094,823   313.0   321.2   479.7   469.7   482.0 2,065.7
E. Training                                   38,657.2  39,703.7  37,789.2  38,812.7  39,864.2 194,827.0    72.9    74.9    71.3    73.2    75.2   367.6
F. PPF REFINANCING                           132,500.0           -                                   132,500.0   250.0         -        -        -        -   250.0
Total Inveetuent Coete                           699,610.4 209,943.7 565,506.2 287,776.1 295,349.5 2,058,186 1,320.0   396.1 1,067.0   543.0   557.3 3,883.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costa
Travel                                      2,172.4   2,232.3   2,293.9   2,357.2   2,422.2  11,478.2            4.1      4.2      4.3      4.4      4.6    21.7
Salaries                                  304,288.7 175,104.3 241,046.4 248,277.8 255,726.2 1,224,443   574.1   330.4   454.8   468.4   482.5 2,310.3
Office expenses and supplies               37,364.7  38,485.6  68,061.4  70,103.3  72,206.4 286,221.3    70.5    72.6   128.4   132.3   136.2   540.0
Subtotal Operating Coete                    343,825.8 215,822.3 311,401.8 320,738.3 330,354.8 1,522,143   648.7   407.2   587.6   605.2   623.3 2,872.0
8. Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles  12,619.4   9,149.4  15,706.5  16,177.7  16,663.0  70,316.0    23.8    17.3    29.6    30.5    31.4   132.7
Total Recurrent Coete                             356,115.2 224,97I.7 327,108.3 336,916.0 347,017.8 1,592,459   672.5   424.5   617.2   635.7   654.8 3,004.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                1,056,056 434,915.4 892,614.4 624,692.0 642,367.2 3,650,645 1,992.6   820.6 1,684.2 1,178.7 1,212.0 6,888.0
Tue Apr 04 14:54:42 1995
tLA-



MALI
Agricultural Trading and Procssing Prootion ProJ*ct (Filena.e: AaPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table 1. PROJECT MON1ITORING
Detailed Coete
Unit
Cos t
Quantities                  (FCFA                         Base Cost (FCFA '000)                                  Base Cost 1Us$ '
Unit  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Tota1 '000)            1996       1997        1998       1999        2000       Total   1996  1997  1998  1999
I. Ineetmt Coate
A. Civil WRrks                                                                amount                                                       -           -          -           -          -                     -            - 
8. Vehcls - 1 4WD                                                              each        1      -     -      -      -      1 17,442  17,842.0              -          -           _          -  17,442.0  32.9         -      -      -
C. EqQi1ent
Cmpater                                                                     each       2      -      -      -      -      2  1,995   3,990.0             -3,990.0   7                                                -
L.ptop c-puter                                                             each        I      -      -      -      -      1  2,100   2,100.0             -           -          -           -   2,100.0   4.0        -      -      -        O
Office furnitura                                                            each       I      -      -      -      -      1  1,050   1,050.0             -           -          -           -   1,050.0    2.0       -      _      _        C-
FPCsicile mchine                                                            each       1      -                              4 I  472.5  472.5           -           -          -           -      472.5    0.9      -      -      -
Copy mchine                                                                 each       1      -      -      -      -      1  5,775    5.775.0            -           -                           5 -   5,775.0  10.9  -     -      -
Video-audio equipment                                                       each        I     _      -      _             1  2,100   2,100.0             -           -           -          -   2,100.0   4.0         _      _     _
Printr                                                                      ech        I      -      -                      1          1,680. 0                                                  1,680.0   3.2       -   _
eubtot.el Eg.aipmemt                                                                                                                     17,167.5            -          -           -          -  17,167.5               -      -      -2CA
D. Training                                                                    each    - - - - - -                                          --               -          -           -          -
B. Technical Assistance (tachn. supervision for MORE S   fin. audits) eonth  -                                          -                              -          -           -          -           --<
1otal Ir vee et Coat.                                                                                                                         34,609.5            -          -           -          -  34,609.5  65.3        -      -       -
1I. Benurret Co t ek
A. operating Ce.te
Phone, electricity                                                        noeth       12    12    12    12    12    60  472.5   5,670.0   5,670.0    5,670.0    5,670.0   5,670.0  28,350.0  10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7
Office eupplie-                                                            nonth      12    12    12    12    12    60   52.5            630.0       630.0      630.0       630.0       630.0   3,150.0   1.2    1.2   1.2    1.2           0
Rant                                                                      costh       12    12    12    12    12    60    315   3,780.0   3,780.0   3,790.0   3,790.0   3,790.0  18,900.0   7.1    7.1   7.1    7.9
Per diee  travel stff                                                     noth                4      4      4      4    20    630   2,520.0   2,520.0   2,520.0   2,520.0                   012,60.0   4.8   4.8    4.9    4.8              Z
eubtatal Operating Coet                                                                                                                  12,600.0  12,600.0  12,600.0  12,600.0  12,600.0  63,000.0  23.8  23.9  23.8  23.8                     H
B. Parsionel
General Manager                                                           north       12    12    12       12    12    60  1,260  15,120.0  15,120.0  15,120.0  15,120.0  15,120.0  75,600.0  28.5  28.5  28.5  28.5
Accomnting Asistant                                                       north       12    12    12    12    12    60    630   7,560.0    7,560.0   7,560.0    7,560.0   7,560.0  37,800.0  11.3  14.3  14.3  14.3
Flnencl 2Ad/inlstratlv  Maneger                                           north       12     12    12    12    12    60  997.5  11,970.0  11,970.0  11,970.0  11,970.0  11,970.0  59,850.0  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6
Monitoring/-veiuatlon Spciolist                                           north       12    12    12    12    12    60    840  10,080.0  10,080.0  10,080.0  10,080.0  10,08o.0  50,400.0  19.0  19.0  19.0  19.0
Oecretary/Support Staff                                                   m onth      12    12    12    12    12    60    315   3,780.0   3,790.0   3,78D.0   3,790.0   3,790.0  18,900.0   7.1    7.1   7.1   7.1
Messenger/Guard                                                           north       12     12    12    12    12    60   94.5    1,134.0   1,134.0    1,134.0    1,134.0   1,134.0    5,670.0   2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1
Chauffeur                                                                  .oth       12    12    12    12    12    60    210   2,520.0    2,520.0   2,520.0    2,520.0    2,520.0  12,600.0   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.9
Subtotal Penenel                                                                                                                         52,164.0  52,164.0  52,164.0  52,164.0  52,164.0 260,820.0  98.4  98.4  98.1  98.4
C. Vehicles                                                                   north       12    12    12    12    12    60 110.25    1,323.0   1,323.0    1,323.0   1,323.0   1,323.0   6,615.0   2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
total RerVret Coete                                                                                                                           66,087.0  66,087.0  66,087.0  66,087.0  66,087.6 330,435.0 128.7 124.7 124.7 124.7
Total                                                                                                                                         100,696.5  66,087.0  66,087.0  66,087.0  66,087.0 365,044.5 190.0 124.7 124.7 124.7
Tue Apr 04 14:56:58 1995
0
n >~
UT -
O is-



MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/I4-4-95
Table 1. PROJSCT ON4ITORIHG
Detailed Coats
Parameters (in *)
Totals Including Contingencies       Phy.         Groass    Sumary Divisions
000)                 Totals Including Contingencies (FCFA '000)                            (US$  000)               Coant. For.   Tax                Expenditure
2000  Total   1996        1991       1998      1999       2000       Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Rata  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
_     -          -          -          -         -          -          -      -     -      -      -     -      -  15.0   0.0   0.0  PM COMP          CV_EA
-  32.9  20,306.8           -          -         -          -  20,306.8  38.3       -      -     -      -  38.3  12.0  79.5   0.0   PM COHP         VEHNEA
-   7.5   4,890.2           -          -         -          -   4,890.2   9.2       -      -     -      -   9.2  15.0   0.0   0.0   PK COHP          EQ0EA
-   4.0   2,573.8           -          -          -         -   2,573.8   1.9       -      -      -     -   4.9  15.0   0.0   0.0   PM COHP          EQLEA
-   2.0   1,286.9           -          -         -          -   1,286.9   2.4       -      -      -     -   2.4  15.0   0.0   0.0   PMHCOHP          E0QEA
-   0.9      579.1          -          -          -         -      579.1   1.1       -     -      -     -   1.1  15.0   0.0   0.0   PH COP           EQ0EA
-  10.9   7,077.9           -          -          -          -   7,077.9  13.4       -     -      -     -  13.4  15.0   0.0   0.0   PM COHP          EQ EA
-   4.0   2,573.8           -          -         -          -   2,573.8   4.9       -      -      -     -   4.9  15.0   0.0   0.0   PmHCOMP          LQAEA
_   3.2   2,059.0           -          -          -          _   2,059.0   3.9       _     _      _     _   3.9  15.0   0.0   0.0   PM COHP          EQ EA
-  32.4  21,040.7           -               -                -  21,040.7  39.7      -      -      -     -  39.7
-     -          -          -          -          -          -         -      -      -     -      -     -      -   5.0   0.0   0.0   PHCOHMP         TR 8A
_     -          -          -          -          -         -          -  _       _        -      -     -      -   5.0   0.0   0.0   PM COHP    CfNEX LA
-  65.3  41,347.5           -                                                                                                                                                                       Z -  -  41,347.5  78.0  -  -  -  -  78.0
10.7  53.5   6,344.9   6,535.3   6,731.3   6,933.3   7,141.3  33,686.2  12.0  12.3  12.7  13.1  13.5  63.6   5.0   0.0   0.0   PH MCOP                 OFF LA
1.2   5.9      705.0     726.1      747.9      770.4      793.5   3,742.9   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.5   1.5   7.1   5.0   0.0   0.0   PM__COP             OFFPLA
7.1  35.7   4,230.0   4,356.9   4,487.6   4,622.2   4,760.9  22,457.4   8.0   8.2   8.5   8.7   9.0  42.4   5.0   0.0   0.0   PH COHP                 OFF_EA
4.8  23.8   2,820.0   2,904t    2,991.7   3,081.5   3,173.9  11,971.6   5.3   5.5   5.6   5.8   6.0  28.2   5.0   0.0   0.0   PHCOHP                  OFF-EA
23.8 118.9  14,099.9  14,522.9  14,958.6  15,407.3  15,869.5  74,858.1  26.6  27.4  28.2  29.1  29.9 141.2
28.5 142.6  16,114.1  16,597.6  17,095.5  17,608.4  18,136.6  85,552.2  30.4  31.3  32.3  33.2  34.2 161.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   PM COHP                 SAL EA
14.3  71.3   8,057.1   8,298.8   8,547.7   8,804.2   9,068.3  42,776.1  15.2  15.7  16.1  16.6  17.1  80.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   PMH OHP                 SAL EA
22.6 112.9  12,757.0  13,139.7  13,533.9  13,939.9  14,358.1  67,728.8  24.1  24.8  25.5  26.3  27.1 127.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   PMHCOMP                 SAL-EA
19.0  95.1  10,742.8  11,065.0  11,397.0  11,738.9  12,091.1  57,034.8  20.3  20.9  21.5  22.1  22.8 107.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   PH COMP                 SAL_ EA
7.1  35.7   4,028.5   4,149.4   4,273.9   4,402.1   4,534.2  21,388.0   7.6   7.8   8.1   8.3   8.6  40.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   PH COHP                 SAL_LEA
2.1  10.7   1,208.6   1,244.8   1,282.2   1,320.6   1,360.2   6,416.4   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.6  12.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   PM COMP                 SAL EA
4.8  23.9   2,685.7   2,766.3   2,849.2   2,934.7   3,022.8  14,258.7   5.1   5.2   5.4   5.5   5.7  26.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   PMHCO4P                 SAL EA
98.4 492.1  55,593.8  57,261.6  58,979.4  60,748.8  62,571.3 295,154.9 104.9 108.0 111.3 114.6 118.1 556.9
2.5  12.5   1,480.5   1,524.9   1,570.6   1,617.8   1,666.3   7,860.1   2.8   2.9   3.0   3.1   3.1  14.8   5.0   0.0   0.0   PM CO?P    OMV EA
124.7 623.5  71,174.1  73,309.4  75,508.6  77,773.9  80,107.1 377,873.2 134.3 138.3 142.5 146.7 151.1 713.0
124.7 688.8 112,521.6  73,309.4  75,508.6  77,773.9  80,107.1 419,220.6 212.3 138.3 142.5 146.7 151.1 791.0
'U1



KALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPFI/4-4-95
Table 2. DATABASE/NETWORKING
Detailed Cotte
unit
Cost
Quantities                 (FCFA                         Base Cost IFCFA '000)                                  Base Cost (US$ '000)                      T
Unit       1996  1997  1998  1999  2900  Total '000)           1996       1997       1998        1999       2000        Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total   1996
IflVe-t..t C..tin
A. Cloil Works                             amount-- - - - - -                                                --              -           -          -              -       -       -       -       -       -       -       --
B. Vehicls                                    ch            1      -      -      _     _      1 12,312  12,312.0             -           -          -          -  12,312.0  23.2         -     -      -      -  23.2  14,334.2
C. rquipeont
C-puter                                  each            I     -      -                    I  1,995   1,995.0             -          _           _          -   1,995.0   3.B        -      _      _          3.8   2,445.1
DB Manage..ent Slfnare                   each            I         -         -             1    525       525.0           -                      -          -      525.0   1.0               --           -   1,0       643.4
Subtotal  qip-ent                                                                                          2,520.0           -           -          -               2,520.0   4.8                     -      -   4.8   3,086.5
D. C,aalt.mte
Local /a                             encth/year         2      2      2      2      2    10  1,690    3,360.0   3,360.0    3,360.0    3,360.0   3,360.0  16,800.0   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3  31.7   3,760.0
Eapatriates /b                       month/year          I     I      1      -      _      3 10,200  10,200.0  10,200.0  10,200.0                -          -  30,600.0  19.2  19.2  19.2          - _       57.7  11,060.8
Subtotal Coneultanta                                                                                      13,560.0  13,560.0  13,560.0   3,360.0   3,360.0  47,400.0  25.6  25.6  25.6   6.3   6.3  89.4  14,820.7
E. Training                             Month/y.ar          I      1      1     1      1      5  309.6       309.6       309.6      309.6   3309.6         309.6   1,548.0 _06    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   2.9              340.1
Total Inve-toent Cuate                                                                                        2S,701.6  13,869.6  13,869.6   3,669.6   3,669.6  63,780.0  54.2  26.2  26.2   6.9   6.9 120.3  32,s83.5
II. Recurrent Ctet.
A. Operating Coets
Workshop Organization                    ech             I      I      1     I      1      5  1,260    1,260.0    1,260.0   1,260.0    1,260.0   1,260.0    6,300.0   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4  11.9    1,410.0
Study, Travel                       par diem/year        I     I      1      I      I      5  2,070   2,070.0   2,010.0    2,070.0   2,070.0   2,070.0  10,350.0   3.    3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9  19.S    2,172.4                            -
Subtotal Operating Coate                                                                                   3,330.0   3,330.0   3,330.0    3,330.0   3,330.0  16,650.0   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3  31.4    3,592.4
B. Par..nn-l tpr.jeat  tarf)
Agru-pr-cea-irng specialist              month         60              -            -    60    945  56,700.0              -          -           -          -  56,700.0 107.0        -      -      -      - 107.0  60,428.0
Data managem.ent assistant              month          60                    -      -    60    630  37,800.0              -          -           -          -  37,800.0  71.3        -      -      -         71.3  40,2895.4
Support Staff                           month          60             -      -      -    60    315  18,900.0              -          -           -          -  18,900.0  35.7               -             -  35.7  20,142.7
Driver                                  month          60      -      -      -      -    60    210  12,600.0              -          -           -              12,600.0  23.8                     -      -  23.8   13,428.5
subtotal P.r.-nnel (pr-jeot ataff)                                                                       126,000.0           -           -          -          - 126,000.0 237.7         -            -      - 237.7 134,204.5
C. Vehicls  OM                             month          60                    -     -    60  55.65   3,339.0              -           -          -          -   3,339.0   6.3         -     -      -      -   6.3    3,736.5
Total Recurrent Coat.                                                                                        I132662   3,330.0    3,330.0 3.,3330..    3,330.0 145,989.0 250.3   6.3   6.3   6.3 _6.3 275.5 141,603.4
Total                                                                                                          161,370.6  17,199.6  17,199.6   6,999.6   6,999.6 209,769.0 304.5  32.5  32.5  13.2  13.2 395.8 174,186.9
\. local onu. rests estimated 8 2 months/yr
\b Consultant costs esti.atad 6 2 months/yr
Tue Apr 04 14:57:22 1995
c!9
t'-



HALT
Agricultural Trading end Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table 2. DATABASE/NETWORKING
Detailed Coets
Parameters (in 1)
Totals Including Contingencies    Phy.          Gross    Summary Divisions
otals Including Contingencies (FCFA '000)                        (US$ '000)               Cont. For.   Tax                Expenditure
1997      1998      1999       2000      Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Rate  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
-         -         -          -         -      -     -      -     -     -     -  15.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP       CV_EA
-         -         -          -  14,334.2  27.0      -     -      -     -  27.0  12.0  79.5   0.0  DENThCOMP    VEH_ A
-         -         -          -   2,445.1   4.6      -     -      -     -   4.6  15.0   0.0   0.0  DENT COMP       EQ_EA
-         -         -          -     643.4   1.2      -     -      -     -   1.2  15.0   0.0   0.0  DENT COMP       EQ EA
-         -         -          -   3,088.5   5.8      -      -     -     -   5.8
3,872.8   3,988.9   4,108.6   4,231.9  19,962.2   7.1   7.3   7.5   7.8   8.0  37.7   5.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP    CONL_EA
11,337.3  11,620.7          -         -  34,018.7  20.9  21.4  21.9       -      -  64.2   5.0 100.0   0.0  DENT COMP   CONEX_EA
15,210.0  15,609.7   4,108.6   4,231.9  53,980.9  28.0  28.7  29.5   7.8   8.0 101.9
349.3     358.8      368.5     378.5   1,795.1   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   3.4   5.0  59.3   0.0  DENT_COMP         TR_EA
15,559.3  15,968.4   4,477.1   4,610.3  73,198.1  61.5  29.4  30.1   8.4   8.7 119.1
1,452.3   1,495.9   1,540.7   1,587.0   7,485.8   2.7   2.7   2.8   2.9   3.0  14.1   5.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP    OFF_EA
2,232.3   2,293.9   2,357.2   2,422.2  11,478.2   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.6  21.7   0.0  49.3   0.0  DENT_COMP    TRAV_SA
3,684.6   3,789.8   3,897.9   4,009.2  18,964.0   6.8   7.0   7.2   7.4   7.6  35.8
-         -         -          -  60,428.0 114.0      -      -     -     - 114.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP    SAL EA
_         _         _          -  40,285.4  76.0      -      -     -     -  76.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP    SAL_BA
-         -          -         -  20,142.7  38.0      -      -     -     -  38.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP    SAL EA
-         -         -          -  13,428.5  25.3      -     -      -     -  25.3   0.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP    SAL EA
-         -         -          - 134,284.5 253.4      -      -     -     - 253.4
-         -         -          -     3736.5   7.0       - - -7.0   5.0   0.0   0.0  DENT_COMP    OMV_EA
3,684.6   3,789.8   3,897.9   4,009.2 156,984.9 267.2   7.0   7.2   7.4   7.6 296.2
19,244.0  19,758.2   8,375.0   8,619.5 230,183.7 328.7  36.3  37.3  15.8  16.3 434.3



Agricultural Trading end Processing Promotion Project (Filene a        MePBPPFFI/6--95
Table 3. CAPACI7Y BUILDING FOR 3 CARs AND APICA  - STRUC7URAL COSTS Ia
Detailed Cots
Unit
Cost
Quantities                  (FCFA                       Base Cost (ICFA '000)                                Base Cost (US9 '000)                     Totals Including Cont
Unit    1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  '000)    1996            1997       1998        1999       2000       Total   1996  1997  1999  1999  2000  Total   1996            1997       1999
I. Inta.aet Coats
A. Civil Works  amount-------                                                          --    -    -    -    - ------- -    -    -
B. Vehicles - I 4WD       each         2      -      I     -             3  17.442  34,884.0           -  17,442.0            -             52,326.0  65.8       -  32.9      -         98.7  40,613.5            -  21,378.6
C. equipaant
Printer                each         2      -     I      -            3   1,680   3.360.0            -   1,680.0           -               5,040.0   6.3       -   3.2      -          9.5   6,119.1           -   2,184.4
FPcai,ile mchine    each            2      -     I      _-           3   672.5       94S.0          -      472.5          -          -   1,817.5   1.8        - 0.9        -      -   2.7   1,158.2            -     61t.6
Photocopy machine    each           2      -     I      -      -     3 2,992-5   5,985.0            -   2,992.5           -          -   8,977.5  11.3        - 5.6        -      -  16.9   7,335.3            -   3,891.0
Ce puter               each         2      -      I     -      -     3   1,995   3,990.0            -   1,995.0           -          -   5,985.0   7.5        -   3.8      -      -  11.3   4,690.2            -   2,594.0
Office furniture       oach         2      -      I     -      -     3   1,050   2,100.0            -   1,050.0            -          -   3,150,0   4.0       -   2.0      -      -   5.9   2,573.8            -   1,365.3
Subtotal Equipent                                                                    16,380.0          -   8,190.0            -          -  26,570.0  30.9       -  15.5      -      -  46.6  20,075.5            -  10,649.1
D. Training            month/year      4      4      6     6      6    26   412.6   1,651.2   1,651.2   2,416.8   2,t76.8   2,676.8  10,132.8   3.1   3.1   4.7   4.7   6.7  20.3   1,813.9   1,862.9   2,970.1
Total Le.ateant Coate                                                                    52,915.2   1,651.2  29,108.8   2,176.8   2,476.8  87,628.8  99.8   3.1  53.0   4.7   4.7 165.3  62,502.9   1,962.9  34,897.7
II.  eAurrnt Coate
A. Peronnel
Support Staff         month        24    24    36    36    36   156         31S   7,560.0   7,560.0  11,340.0  11,360.0  11,340.0  49.140.0  16.3  14.3  21.4  21.4  21.4  92.7   8,057.1   8,2968.   12,921.6
6 Senior Staff /b    onth          36    36    48    is    48   216         630  22,660.0  22,680.0  30,20.0  30,200  30,240.0 136,080.0  82.9  42.8  57.1  57.1  57.1 256.8  24,111.2  26,896.3  38,191.0                            ,g
Subt.tol Cerene-l                                                                    30,240.0  30,240.0  41,599.0  41.598.0  41,589.0 185,220.9  57.1  57.1  78.5  78.5  78.5 319.5  32,228.3  33,195.1  17,012.6
B. Vehicls 06M            each        24    24    36    36    36   156  110.25   2,646.0   2,646.0   3,969.0   3,969.0   3,969.0  17,199.0   5.0   5.0   7.5   7.5   7.5  32.5   2,961.0   3,049.8   4,711.9
Total Remurrent Costa                                                                    32,886.0  32,886.0  45,549.0  j5,5j9.0  45,549.0 202,419.0  62.0  62.0  85.9  85.9  85.9 381.9  35,189.3  36,244.9  51,724.5
Total                                                                                     85,901.2  34,537.2  73,657.8  48,025.8  48,025.8 290,067.6 161.9  65.2 139.0  90.6  90.6 547.3  978692.1  38,107.9  86,622.1
\a NOTEI
\b The 4 asnior staff  w11 ta provided by the Govemneent for support to APCAh' and Sagou, Sikesso, and Hopti CARs and for project supervision
Tue Apr 04 14:57:48 1995
0wl



MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project PFilename: AGPRPPFP/4-4-95
Table 3. CAPACITY BUILDING FOR 3 CARs AND APCAH - STRUCTURAL COSTS /a
Detailed Coast
Parameters (in 1)
Totals Including Contingencies    Phy.            Gross    SummarY Divisions
ingencies (FCFA '000)                         (US$ '000)                 Cont. For.   Tax                 Expenditure
1999       2000       Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Rate  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
-         -          -      -            - I                 -  15.0   0.0   0.0  CAP_COMP          CV EA
-         -  61,992.1  76.6        -  40.3      -      - 117.0  12.0  79.5   0.0  CAP COMP         VEH_EA
-         -   6,302.5   7.8        -   4.1      -      -  11.9  15.0   0.0   0.0  CAP COMP          EQ_EA
-          -   1,772.6   2.2       -   1.2      -      -   3.3  15.0   0.0   0.0  CAP_COMP          EQ EA
-          -  11,226.3  13.8       -   7.3      -      -  21.2  15.0   0.0   0.0  CAP COMP          EQBEA                                                                                            >
-          -   7,484.2   9.2       -   4.9      -      -  14.1  15.0   0.0   0.0  CAP COMP          EQ EA
_          -   3,939.1   4.9       -   2.6      -      -   7.4  15.0   0.0   0.0  CAP COMP          EQ EA
-          -  30,724.6  37.9       -  20.1      -      -  58.0
2,947.8   3,027.7  12,522.3   3.4   3.5   5.4   5.6   5.7  23.6   5.0  59.3   0.0  CAP_COMP                TR-EA
2,947.8   3,027.7 105,239.0 117.9   3.5  65.8   5.6   5.7 198.6
13,206.3  13,602.5  55,986.2  15.2  15.7  24.2  24.9  25 .7 105.6   0.0   0.0   0.0  CAP COMP              SAL EA
35,216.7  36,273.2 154,748.5  45.6  47 .0  64.5  66.4  68.4 292.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  CAP_COMP              SAL_EA
48,423.0  49,875.7 210,734.7  60.8  62.6  88.7  91.4  94.1 397.6
4,853.3   4,996.9  20,574.9   5.6   5.8   8.9   9.2   9.4  38.8   5.0   0.0   0.0  CAP_COMP               OMV_EA
53,276.3  54,874.6 231,309.6  66.4  68.4  97.6 100.5 103.5 436.4
56,224.1  57,902.2 336,548.6 184.3  71.9 163.4 106.1 109.2 635.0
ga
I.,'-



HALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table 4. GENERIC SUPPORT TO REGICINAL AGRO-PROCES55NG
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                IFCFA                       Bass Cost (FCFA '000)                                      Base Cost (US$ '000)
Unit    1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total '000)    1996            1997       1998       1999      2000       Totel    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
I. Trotent Costs
A. Ciril brsk
Wholesale market/sorting-warehouse            each         2     -      I     -      -      3 51,450 102,900.0           -  51,450.0           -          - 154,350.0   194.2         -    97.1         -       -   291.2
B. Vehicles (4WD)                                each         2      -     I      -     -      3 17,442  34,881.0           -  17,442.0           -          -  52,326.0    65.9         -    32.9         -        -    96.7
C. Cameultasta
Local                                      onth/year       4     4      6     6      6    26  1,680   6,720.0   6,720.0  10,080.0  10,080.0  10,080.0  43,680.0    12.7    12.7    19.0    19.0    19.0    82.4
Expatriates                               month/year       2     2      3     3      3    13  8,160  16,320.0  16,320.0  24,480 .0  21,40.0  24,480.0 106,080.0    30.6    30.8    46.2    46.2    46.2   200.2
Subtotal Conultants                                                                                       23,040.0  23,040.0  34,560.0  34,560.0  34,560.0 149,760.0    43.5    43.5    65.2    65.2    65.2   282.6
D. Training                                   onth/year       6     6      9      9     9    39    516   3,096.0   3,096.0   4,644.0   j,644.0   4,644.0  20,124.0            5.8      5.8      8.8      8.8      8.8    38.0
Total Inveetnt Coate                                                                                         163,920.0  26,136.0 108,096.0  39,204.0  39,204.0 376,560.0   309.3    49.3   204.0    74.0    74.0   710.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costa
1. Bent                                     month        24    24    36    36    36   156  157.5   3,780.0   3,780.0   5,670.0   5,670.0   5,670.0  24,570.0               7.1      7.1    10.7    10.7    10.7    46.4
2. Office supplies, phone, electricity   month           24    24    36    36    36   156  262.5   6,300.0   6,300.0   9,850.0   9.450.0   9,450.0  40,950.0    11.9    11.9    37.8    17.8    17.8    77.3
Subtotal 'ipratin,g Caste                                                                                 10,080.0  10,080.0  15,120.0  15,120.0  15,120.0  65,520.0    19.0    19.0    28.5    28.5    28.5   123.6
3. erosnel
Rural econmist                             month        24    24    36    36    36   156    945  22,680.0  22,680.0  34,020.0  34,020.0  34,020.0 147,420.0    42.8    42.8    64.2    64.2    64.2   278.2
Guard                                       month         24    24    36    36    36   156        63   1,512.0   1,512.0   2,268.0   2,268.0   2,268.0   9,828.0           2.9      2.9      4.3      4.3      4.3    18.5
Driver                                       onth        24    24    36    36    36   156    210   5,040.0   5,040.0   7,560.0   7,560.0   7,560.0  32,760.0               9.5      9.5    14.3    14.3    14.3    61.8
Accounting Assistant                          onth        24    24    36    36    36   156    630  15,120.0  15,120.0  22,680.0  22,680.0  22,660.0  98,280.0    28.5    28.5    42.8    42.6    42.8   185.4
Subtotai Personnel                                                                                        48,352.0  44,352.0  66,528.0  66,528.0  66,528.0 288,288.0    83.7    83.7   125.5   125.5   125.5   543.9
C. Vehicles                                      each        24    24    36    36    36   156 110.25   2,646.0   2,646.0   3,969.0   3,969.0   3,969.0  17,199.0              5.0      5.0      7.5      7.5      7.5    32.5
Total Rsowrant Costs                                                                                          57,078.4  57.0.0  85,617.0  85,617.0  85,617.0 371,007.0 1 107.7              7.7   161.5   161.5   161.5   700.0
Total                                                                                                         220,998.0  83,214.0 193,713.0 124,821.0 124,821.0 747,567.0   417.0   157.0   365.5   235.5   23S.5 1,410.5
Tue Apr 04 14:58:49 1995
MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename; AGPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table 4. GENERIC SUPPORT TO RIGICNAL AMW-PEGCESSIMG
Detailed Costa
Parameters (in 0)
Phy.         Gross    Summary Divisions
Totals Including Contingencies IFCFA '000)                  Totals Includinq Contingencies (US$ '000)    Cont. For.   Tex                     Expenditure
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       Total    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total  Rate  Each. Rate   Comoonent    Account
123,405.9          -  65,025.0           _          - 188,430.9   232.8         -   122.7         -        -   355.5  15.0  69.4   0.0  GEN COHP          CV CA
40,613.5          -  21,378.6           -          -  61,992.1    76.6         -    40.3         -        -   117.0  12.0  79.5   0.0  GENC COKP        VEh_EA
7,519.9   7,745.5  11,966.8  12,325.8  12,695.6  52,253.8    14.2    14.6    22.6    23.3    24.0    98.6   5.0   0.0   0.0  CEN COHP                  CaNL_EA
17,697.2  18,139.6  27,889.   28,546.9  29,301.6 121,615.1    33.4    34.2    52.6    53.9    55.3   229.5   5.0 100.0   0.0  GENCOHMP    CONEX_LA
25,217.1  25,885.2  39,856.5  40,912.8  41,997.2 173,860.8    47.6    48.4    75.2    77.2    79.2   328.1
_3,400.9   3,493.0   5,301.4   5,527.1   5,676.9  23,479.3         6.4      6.6    10.2    10.8    10.7    44.3   5.0  59.3   0.0  GEN COHP             TR-EA
192,637.5  29,378.2 131,641.5  46,439.9  47,674.1 447,771.1   363.5    55.4   248.4    87.6    90.0   844.9
4,230.0   1,356.9   6,731.3   6,933.3   7,141.3  29,392.8          8.0      8.2    12.7    13.1    13.5    55.5   5.0   0.0   0.0  GENC COHP          OFF EA
7,049.9   7,261.4  11,218.9  11,555.5  11,902.1  48,987.9    13.3    13.7    21.2    21.8    22.5    92.4   5.0   0.0   0.0  GENl_CQHP                 OFF EA
11,279.9  11,618.3  17,950.3  18,488.8  19,043.4  78,380.7    21.3    21.9    33.9    34.9    35.9   147.9                                                                IV
24,171.2  24,096.3  38,464.9  39,618.6  40,007.4 167,958.6    45.6    47.0    72.6    74.8    77.0   316.9   0.D   0.0   0.0  GEN COMP                  SALEA LA
1,611.4   1,659.8   2,564.3   2,641.3   2,720.5  11,197.2          3.0      3.1      4.8      5.0     5.1    21.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  GEN_CONP          SAL_EA
5,371.4   5,532.5   8,547.7   8,804.2   9,068.3  37,324.1    10.1    10.4    16.1    16.6    17.1    70.4   0.0   0.0   0.0  GE_ COMP                  SAL EA
16,111J.1   16,597.6  25,643.2  26,112.5  27204.91 111,972.4    30.4    31.3    48.4    49.8    51.3   211.3   0.0   0.0   0.0  GENi_COMP               SAL _EA           O
47,268.1  48,686.2  75,220.2  77,476.8  79,001.1 328,452.3    89.2    91.9   141.9   146.2   150.6   619.7
2,961.0   3,049.8   4711 .9   4,853.3   4,990.9  20,574.9          5.6 __ 5.         8.9    9.  _ 9.4    30.8   5.0   0.0   0.0  GEN CO?P    GHV_ LA A                       W
61,_99.0  63L354_3  97,882.4 100,610.8 103,843.4 427,407.9   116.1   119.5   104.?   190.2   195.9   0206.
254,146.5  92,732.4 229,523.9 147,258.7 151,517.5 875,179.0   479.5   175.0   433.1   277.8   285.9 1,651.3



MALT
Agricultural Trding and Pro_essing Pro otion Project (Filename.  AGPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table S. SUPPORT ON DEMAND FOR PRIV. ENT. IN 3 REGIONS Ia
Detailed Coata
Unit
Cost
Ocantitien                (FCFA                       Base Cost (FCFA '000)                              Base Cost /US$ '000)                     S
Unit    1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  total '000)    1996           1997       1998       1999      2000       Total   1996  1997  1999  1999  2000  Total   1996
1. laveeimeot Cost.
A. Civil Works                                     amount   ------                                             --    -    -    -    --------- -
B. Vehicles (4 WD) /b                               eah.h  ---                                                 -            -          -          -          -                                                 -
C. Equipnt
Laptop                                           .eah         2      -     I      -     -      3  2,100   4,200.0           -   2,100.0          -          -   6,300.0   7.9           4.0      -         11.9   5,147.6
Portable printer                                 ech          2      -     I     -      -     3 446.25       992.5          -     446.3      1              -   1,338.8   1.7           0.6                 2.5   1,093.9
Scbtetal tqaipet                                                                                              1,092.5          -   2,546.3           -          -   7,638.9   9.6           4.8               14.6   6,211.1
D. C-aItant.
Loal                                          month/year      8      8    12    12    12    52  1,680  13,440.0  13,440.0  20,160.0  20,160.0  20,160.0  87,360.0  25.4  25.4  38.0  38.0  38.0 164.8  15,039.9
E. Trininq /c                                    month/year-      - - - - - -                                   --             -          -          -          -
Total laveeDemet CaeRe                                                                                           16,532.5  13,440.0  22,706.3  20,160.0  20,160.0  94,996.6  30 o  25.t  42.8   38.0  38.0 179.2  21,281.3
I1. Rant Coat.
A. Operating Costs /d                                each                                                                                    -        -       -                       -           -
3, Pmrenel (Prajent Staff)
Senior  taff (f inancial analyst/e-oomist)   month           24    24    36    36    36   156    945  22,680.0  22,680.0  34,020.0  34,020.0  34,020.0 147,420.0  62.6  42.8  64.2  64.2  64.2 276.2  24,171.2
Aqroprocessiag Specialist                        aech        24    24    36    36    36   156    315   7,560.0   7,560.0  11,340.0  11,340.0  11,310.0  t9,140.0  14.3  14.3  21.4  21.4  21.4  92.7   6,057.1
subtetal Par-nal (Prsjmst Staff)                                                                             30,240.0  30,240.0  45,360.0  45,360.0  45,360.0 196,560.0  57.1  57.1  65.6  65.6  65.6 370.9  32,228.3
C. Vehiles/a.                                       each --                                                                    - - _                                                                       _
Tetel Resnreet Cete                                                                                              36,240.0  30,240.0  45,360.0  45,360.0  45,360.0 196,560.0  57.1  57.1  85.6  85.6  85.6 370.9  32,226.3
Total                                                                                                             48,772.5  43,680.0  66,066.3  65,520.0  65,520.0 291,556.8  92.0  92.4 128.4 123.6 123.6 550.1  53,509.6
\a NO6EI - SIKASSO, SEGBO, MOPTI
\b Vehiale  in Table. 3 and I
\c Training in Generic Support in Table 4
\d Operating Coats in Table. 3 and 4
e Vehicles OAK in Tables 3 and I
Tue Apr 04 14:59:15 1995
OQz
l SI
7-1 SUPPORT ON4 DRMAND FOB PRIV. RMT. TN 1 9Fr.TC*ls



KALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table S. SUPPORT ON DEKAND FOR PRIV. ENT. IN 3 REGIONS /a
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in 4)
Totals Including Contingencies    Phy.             Gross    Summary Divisions
otals Including Contingencies (FCFA '000)                            (USS '000)                Cont. For.   Tax                 Expenditure
1997       1998       1999       2000       Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Rate  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
-         _           _          _          _      _     -      -      -     -      -  15.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP          CV_EA
-          -          -          -          -      -     -      -      -     -      -  12.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP         VEH EA
-   2,730.5           -          -   7,878.1   9.7       -   5.2       -     -  14.9  15.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP           EQ_EA
-     580.2           -          -   1,674.1   2.1       -   1.1       -     -   3.2  15.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP           EQ EA
-   3,310.8           -          -   9,552.2  11.8       -   6.2      -      -  18.0
15,491.1  23,933.7  24,651.7  25,391.2 104,507.6  28.4  29.2  45.2  46.5  47.9 197.2   5.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP                 CONOL_EA
_          -          -          -             -      -      -         -     -      -   S.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP          TR-EA
15,491.1  27,244.5  24,651.7  25,391.2 114,059.8  40.2  29.2  51.4  46.5  47.9 215.2
-          -          -          -          -      -     -      -      -     -      -   5.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP         OFF EA
24,896.3  38,464.9  39,618.8  40,807.4 167,958.6  45.6  47.0  72.6  74.8  77.0 316.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   PE_COMP                  SAL EA
8,2908.  12,821.6  13,206.3  13,602.   55,986.2  15.2  15.7  24.2  24.9  25.7 105.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   PE1COMP                 SAL EA
33,195.1  51,286.5  52,825.1  54,409.8 223,944.8  60.8  62.6  96.8  99.7 102.7 422.5
_          _          -          -          -      -     -      -      -     -      -   5.0   0.0   0.0   PE COMP         OMV EA
33,195.1  51,286.5  52,825.1  54,409.8 223,944.8  60.8  62.6  96.8  99.7 102.7 422.5
48,686.2  78,530.9  77,876.8  79,801.1 338,004.5 101.0  91.9 348.2 146.2 15.6 637.7
ii



MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table 6. PPF REFINANCING
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                   (FCFA                        Base Cost (FCFA '000)                                   Base Cost (USS '000)
Unit  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  '000)            1996       1997        1998       1999        2000       Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
I. Inveatent Costs
A. PPF Financing   amount         1      -      -      _      _      1 132,500 132,500.0             -          -           -           - 132,500.0 250.0        -      -      -      - 250.0
Total Invetsewt Coste                                                                132,500.0            -                                 - 132,500.0 250.0         -      -      -      - 250.0
II. R*current Costs
A. PPF Refinancing month          1      -      -            -  -    1
Total Reciurrent Costs                                                               _        _           ____                                 __       _       ___           _   __       _
Total                                                                                 132,500.0            -          -           -          - 132,500.0 250.0         -      -      -      - 250.0
Tue Apr 04 14:59:35 1995
00
Parameters (in 1)
Totals Including Contingencies         Phy.          Gross    SummarY Divisions
Totals Including Contingencies   (FCFA '000)                              (USS '000)                  Cont. For.   Tax                   Expenditure
1996       1997        1998       1999        2000        Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Rote  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
132,500.0           -           -           -           - 132,500.0 250.0        -      -      -      - 250.0   0.0 100.0   0.0  PPF_COMP           PPF_EA
132,500.0           -           -           -           - 132,500.0 250.0        -      -      -      - 250.0
-      -     -      -      -      -      -   0.0   0.0   0.0  PPF_COMP          OFF_EA
132,500.0           -           -           -           - 132,500.0 250.0        -      -      -      - 250.0
N-
9 m



MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Project (Filename: AGPRPPF)/k-4-95
Table 7. SUPPORT ACCESS TO CREDIT
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                   (FCFA                      Base Cost (UCSA '000)                                Base Cost (USS  000)
Unit  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  '000)             1996       1997      1998       1999      2000      Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Local Consultants month          1      1      1      1      1      5 1,651.2  1,651.2  1,651.2  1,651.2  1,651.2  1,651.2  6,256.0    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1  15.6
B. Expatriates          month       2      2      -      _      _      4  10,320 20,640.0 20,640.0               -         -            41 280    38.9  3B.9         -       -      -  77.9
Total                                                                                    22,291.2 22,291.2  1,651.2  1,651.2  1,651.2 49,536.0  42.1  42.1    3.1    3.1    3.1  93.5
Tue Apr 04 14:58:09 1995
411
Parameters (in 1)
Totals Includinq Contingencies          Phy.          Gross    Suary Divisions
Totals Including Contingencies  (FCFA  0 00)                            (USS '000)                  Cont. For.   Tax                   Expenditure
1996      1997       1994      1999       2000    Total   1996  1997  1998  1999  2010  Total Rate  Exch. Rate   Component    Account
1,813.8   1,862.9  1,913.4  1,965.2  2,018.4  9,573.8   3.4    3.5    3.6    3.7   3.B  18.1   5.0  59.3   0.0  CRDT_ COMP                     TR EA
22,672.8 23,286.6            -          -          - 45,959.5  42.H8  43.9        -             -  86.7    5.0  59.3   0.0  CRDT _COMP           TB EA
24,486.6 25,149.6   1,913.4   1,965.2  2,018.4 55,533.2  46.2  47.5    3.6    3.7   3.8 104.8
uJx
OQ
0



Agricultural Trading and Processing Praction Project (riln  am  AGmPPPF)/4-4-95
Table B. SUPPOT PfACMU  TO PWOFESSIWAI OMNSIZAIONS (AUIFZ, CUIRS a P*10X, OLEAGINDX) /a
Detailed W.t.
Unit
Coat
Quantities                  (FCQA                       bas. Coat IFCIA 10001                                      ha. Cost (Us8  e000)
Unit  1996  1997  1999  1999  2000  Total  '0001    1996            1997       1999       1999       2000       Total    1996    1997    1990    1999    2000    Total
I. hweatamt Caste
A. Civil Works lb                              amount      I      -     2      -      -     3  36.015  36,015.0            -  72,030.0           -          - 108,065.0    68.0          -   135.6        -        -   203.9
D. VeUecles                                     sach       I      -     2      -     -      3  17,412  17,142.0            -  34,894.0           -          -  52,326.0    32.9         -    SS.8         -        -     0.7
C. 3pa_nt
Feacstile                                    ech       2      -      I     -      -      3   472.5      945.0           -     472.5           -          -   1,417.5      1.6        -      0.9        -        -      2.7
Computer                                     each       1     -      2      -     -      3   1,995   1,995.0            -   3.990.0           -          -   5,965.0      3.6        -      7.5        -        -    11.3
Copy machins                                 each       I     -      2      -     -      3 2,992.5   2,992.5            -   5,985.0           -          -   9,977.5      5.6        -    11.3         -        -    16.9
Printer                                      each       I     -      2     -      -      3   1,680   1,600.0                      .0          -          -   5,040.0       3.2       -      6.3    _         _        9.5
btetal  qu'ignmat                                                                                        7,612.5           -  13,907.5           -          -  21,120.0    10.4          -    26.1        -        -    40.4
c. onAtat
1. Local                                     onth       6     6      9      9     9    39   1,680  10,080.0  10,090.0  15,120.0  15,120.0  15,120.0  65,520.0    19.0    19.0    28.5    28.5    28.5   123.6
2. aatriate-
Local channel organizing                omth        6      6      9     9      9    39  10,200  61,200.0  61,200.0  91,900.0  91S800.0  91,800.0 397,600.0   115.5   115.5   173.2   173.2   173.2   750.6
Major contact (Malian to be traind) month            6     6      9     9      9    39   5,100  30,600.0  30.600.0   5,9 00.0  *S.900.0  45,900.0 196.900.0    57.7    57.7    96.6    66.6    96.6   375.3
Subtotai Itriates                                                                                    91.800.0  91.800.0 137.700.0 137.700.0 137,700.0 596.700.0   173.2   173.2   259.8   25S.6   259.6 1.125.6
Sabtotal Consultants                                                                                   101,880.0 101,660.0 152,820.0 152,820.0 152,820.0 662,220.0   192.2   192.2   268.3   288.3   286.3 1,209.5
Z. traii   ad Research
Training for contact staff                  month       1     1      3      3     3    11   619.2       619.2      619.2   1,657.6   1,857.6   1,857.6   6,611.2           1.2     1.2      3.5      3.5      3.5    12.9
Participation in fair/tour studies         smith        1     1      3     3      3    11   5,160   5,160.0   5,160.0  15,490.0  15,480.0  15,660.0  56,760.0             9.7      9.7    29.2    29.2    29.2   107.1
Research package                           month        I     1      3      3     3    11   2,064   2,064.0   2,064.0   6,192.0   6.192.0   6,192.0  22,704.0              3.9     3.9    11.7    11.7    11.7    42.6
ubteotal Trainin    " SRoeerch                                                                           7,843.2   7,643.2  23,529.6  23,529.6  23,529.6  06.275.2    14.8    14.8    04.4    44.0    44.4   162.6
total xm.sett Caste                                                                                         170,792.7 109,723.2 297,071.1 176,349.6 176,349.6 930,286.2   322.3   207.0   560.5   332.7   332.7 1,755.3
II. R    rt Coste
A. Operating Cts
Ilectricity, Phone                          month      12    12    36    36    36   132   472.5   5,670.0   5,670.0  17,010.0  17,010.0  17,010.0  62,370.0    10.7    10.7    32.1    32.1    32.1   117.7  o
Rent                                       month       12    12    36    36    36   132         315   3,780.0   3,780.0  11,340.0  11,340.0  11,340.0  41,580.0            7.1     7.1    21.4    21.4    21.4    76.5
Subtetal Operating Coats                                                                                 9,450.0   9,050.0  28,350.0  29,350.0  28,350.0 103,950.0    17.8    17.8    53.5    53.5    53.5   196.1
S. Peral
Support staff                               aonth      12    12    36    36    36   132         210   2,520.0   2,520.0   7,560.0   7,560.0   7,560.0  27,720-0            4.8     4.8    10.3      14.3    14.3    52.3
C. Vehicles OW
1. Vehicles OcM                            month       12    12    36    36    36   132  110.25   1,323.0   1.323.0   3,969.0   3,969.0   3,969.0  14,553.0                2.5     2.5      7.5      7.5      7.5    27.5
Total Mesret Cots                                                                                           13,293.0  13,293.0  39,679.0  39,879.0  39.679.0 16,223.0    25.1    25.1    75.2    75.2    75.2   275.9
Total                                                                                                        184,085.7 123,016.2 336,950.1 216,226.6 216,228.6 1,076,509   347.3   232.1   635.8   408.0   406.0 2,031.1
\a AULE? in Year 1, Cuirs  PFams and Oleagineux in Year 3
lb Wholecale market nd collective storage facilities
Tue Apr 04 14:58619 1995
5-1 SUPPORt  POCKAC      TO P3OWSSIQAL OlMIZATIClS  (MULaE, CUIRS s 9UU, O4AMINI" 



MALI
Agricultural Trading and Processing Prcmotion Project (Filname: AGPRPPF)/4-4-95
Table 8. SUPPORT PACKAGES TO PROFSSSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS (AMELEF, CUIRS a PSAUX, OLEAGINEUX) /a
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in 1)
Phy.         Gross _ Suwaay Diyisions,_
Totals Including Contingencies (PCFA '000)                   Totals Including Conting"ncies (USS '000)    Cont. For.   Tax                       Expendituro
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       Total    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total  Rate  Exch. Rate   Component               Account
43,192.1          -  91,035.0           -           - 134,227.1    81.5         -   171.8         -        -   253.3  15.0  69.4   0.0 PROFS COMP I    CV EA
20,306.8          -  42,757.1           -           -  63,063.9    38.3         -    80.7         -        -   119.0  12.0  79.5   0.0 PROFS_COHP_I    VEH BA
1,158.2          -      614.4          -          -   1,772.6       2.2        -      1.2        -        -      3.3  15.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS COMP 1    EQOEA
2,445.1          -   5,188.0           -           -   7,633.1      4.6        -      9.8        -        -    14.4  15.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS _COMP_         EQ EA
3,667.6          -   7,782.0           -           -  11,449.7      6.9        -    14.7         -        -    21.6  15.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS COMP I    EQ EA
2,059.0          -   4,368.8           -           -   6,427.9       3.9       -      8.2        -        -    12.1  15.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS_CONP?I    EQ_EA
9,330.0          -  17,953.2           -           -  27,283.2    17.6         -    33.9         -        -    51.5
11,279.9  11,618.3  17,950.3  18,488.8  19,043.4  78,380.7    21.3    21.9    33.9    34.9    35.9   147.9   5.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS_COP_ I   COIL BEA
66,368.5  68,023.6 104,586.3 107,201.0 109,881.0 456,056.5   125.2   128.3   197.3   202.3   207.3   860.5   5.0 100.0   0.0 PROFS CONP I   COKEX EA
33,182.3  34,011.8  52,293.2  53,600.5  54,910.5 228,028.2    62.6    64.2    9S.7   101.1   103.7   430.2   5.0 100.0   0.0 PROFS  O?MP I   CONEXBEA
99,546.8 102,035.4 156,879.5 160,801.5 164,821.5 684,084.7   187.8   192.5   296.0   303.4   311.0 1,290.7
110,826.7 113,653.7 174,829.8 179,290.3 183,865.0 762,465.4   209.1   214.4   329.9   338.3   346.9 1,438.6
680.2      698.6   2,152.5   2,210.9   2,270.7   8,012.9          1.3      1.3      4.1      4.2      4.3    15.1   5.0  59.3   0.0 PROFS_COMP ?I    TR EA
5,668.2   5,821.7  17,937.9  18,423.8  18,922.9  66,774.4    10.7    11.0    33.8    34.8    35.7   126.0   5.0  59.3   0.0 PROFS COP? I    TR-EA
2,267.3   2,32B.    7,175.2   7,369.5   7,569.1  26,709.8           8.3      4.8    13.5    13.9    14.3    50.4   5.0  59.3   0.0 PROFS0 COMP1  'TR-EA
8,615.7   8,848.9  27,265.6  28,004.1  28,762.8 101,497.1    16.3    16.7    51.4    52.8    54.3   191.5
192,271.1 122,502.7 353,840.8 207,294.4 212,627.7 1,088,537   362.8   231.1   667.6   391.1   401.2 2,053.8
6,344.9   6,535.3  20,194.0  20,799.9  21,423.9  75,29B.0    12.0    12.3    38.1    39.2    40.4   142.1   5.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS COMP I    OFFBEA
4,230.0   4,356.9  13,462.7  13,866.6  14,282.6  50.19.7            8.0      8.2    25.4    26.2    26.9    94.7   5.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS_COMPl I    OFF_A
10,574.9  10,892.2  33,656.7  34,666.5  35,706.4 125,496.7    20.0    20.6    63.5    65.4    67.4   236.8
2,685.7   2,766.3   8,547.7   8,804.2   9,068.3  31,872.2           5.1      5.2    16.1    16.6    17.1    60.1   0.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS COHP?l    SALBEA
1,480.5   1,524.9   4,711.9   4,853.3   4,998.9  17,569.5            2.8     2.9      8.9      9.2      9.4    33.2   5.0   0.0   0.0 PROFS COMP 1    OHWVEA
14,741.1  15,183.3  46,916.4  48,323.9  49,773.6 174,938.4    27.8    28.6             8.5    91.2    93.9   330.1
207,012.2 137,686.0 400,757.2 255,618.3 262,401.4 1,263,475   390.6   259.8   756.1   482.3   495.1 2,383.9
LA
tA






PROJET D'APPUI A LA VALORISATION ET A LA COMMERCIALISATION DES PRODUITS AGRICOLES
PAVCOPA
STRUCTURE INSTITTIONNELLE DU PROIET
Comite Consultatif
de Suivi du Proiet:                              MINISTERE DU DEVELOPPEMENT
Representants               .                   RURAL ET DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT
bdniciaires et                                      (Responsable du Projet: GOM)
Gouvernement
I                                        Convention MDRE/APCAM
A P C A M
I                                                      I                                                                             l
Cr&ation par I'APCAM  d'une agence d'execution du projet au sein de I'APCAM
AGENCE PROMOTION FILIERES AGRICOLES
APROFA
Antennes RWgionales                             Unite Centrale                         Appui aux fires nationales
(Parrainees par CAR)                          (Directeur Agence)               (Parrainees par les Associations professionnelles)
Annee I    * Sikasso            * Segou                    * Unite 6                    R6seau        * AMELEF
Coordination Projet        d'echange       (Fruits et Legumes)
Annee                                            Mopti                                                      * Mutuelle            * Karite/produits
2 et 3                                                                                                        Cuirs et peaux       exotiques
'a
O-1)



-53-                                      ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 20
PROJET DE CONVENTION D'ETABLISSEMENT GOUVERNEMENT
DU MALI / AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION DES FILIERES
AGRICOLES (APROFA)
La presente convention d'etablissement s'applique aux relations,
Entre le Gouvernement de la Republique du Mali, ci-apres denornm6, le Gouvemement, represente
par le Ministre du Developpement Rural et de l'Environnement
d'une part;
Et L'Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres Agricoles, ici designee, L'APROFA, representee par son
Directeur, Monsieur
d'autre part;
EXPOSE PRELIMINAIRE
Le Gouvemement de la Republique du Mali,
Conscient de limportance de la transformation des produits agricoles dans le cadre du
developpement et de la modernisation du secteur rural au Mali;
Eu egard aux efforts de modemisation fournis par les differentes corporations concernees par
ce secteur d'activite;
Convaincu de la necessite d'une assistance accrue des partenaires au developpement du Mali en
vue d'assurer le meilleur developpement de ce secteur d'activite;
Soucieux enfin d'assurer une plus grande implication des corps professionnels organises dans le
cadre de la gestion des activites relatives a leur secteur d'activite;
a decide
1.    De consacrer les efforts necessaires pour la promotion des productions agricoles nationales
notamment en leur apportant les appuis quant A leur valorisation dans le cadre du Projet
denomme " Projet d'Appui a la Valorisation et A la Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles"
du Mali "PAVCOPA".
2.    En consequence de tout mettre en oeuvre afin de permettre audit Projet de disposer des
meilleures conditions efficaces de gestion, et de favoriser en meme temps une large implication
des corporations et structures professionnelles concernees par l'objet du PAVCOPA.
C'est dans ce cadre que le Gouvernement a choisi de confier le parrainage du PAVCOPA a



-54-                                      ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 20
I' Assemblee Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali (APCAM) en tant qu'etablissement
public a caractere professionnel.
La mission ainsi confiee a I'APCAM consistera a tout mettre en oeuvre en rapport avec les autres
partenaires du PAVCOPA pour mettre en place les organes necessaires a la r6alisation du PAVCOPA,
notaniment la creation d'une Agence d'Execution du Projet.
Les deux parties apres s'etre rapprochees et mis d'accord sur ces prealables ont arret6 ce qui
suit:
TITRE I
DISPOSITIONS GENERALES
Article 1:
Le Gouvemement confie a l'APCAM qui accepte un mandat specifique pour la duree de la presente
Convention, a 1'effet d'assurer la realisation des objectifs assignes au PAVCOPA, parmi lesquels la
creation d'une agence de type droit prive, chargee de 1'ex6cution du projet, conformement aux termes
de la presente Convention, aux dispositions du Manuel de Procedures annexe a la presente Convention,
ainsi qu'a toutes dispositions 16gales, reglementaires et tous autres textes subsequents.
Toutefois I'APCAM consent a del6guer a son tour - sous r6serve des pouvoirs qui lui sont
sp6cifiquement confi6s - I'ensemble des prerogatives a lui confi6es par le Gouvemement du Mali
represente par le Ministere charge du Developpement Rural a l'Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres
Agricoles (APROFA), Organe Executif qu'elle creee a cet effet.
Article 2 : Mandat de I'Agence d'Execution du Projet
I1.    Le Gouvemement du Mali a demande a l'APCAM qui accepte la creation par cette derniere
d'une Agence dEx6cution du Projet denommee "Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres
Agricoles" "APROFA" qui sera chargee exclusivement de la gestion courante du Projet.
L'Agence ne pourra contracter d'autres missions qu'avec l'accord prealable du Gouvemement
en concertation avec les bailleurs de fonds. L'Agence s'interdit toute activit6 incompatible avec
ses objectifs.
2.    Par consequent, le Gouvemement et 1'APCAM, sous reserve des pouvoirs de contr6le leur
incombant respectivement, s'interdisent toute immixtion directe ou indirecte dans la gestion
courante de l'Agence pendant toute la duree de la presente Convention de maniere a ne point
compromettre l'execution du mandat confie a l'Agence par l'APCAM sur delegation du
Gouvemement du Mali.



-55-                                         ANX
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 20
Article 3: Mcanisme d'intervention de l'Agence
L'Agence n'a pas vocation par elle seule a executer toutes les taches devant concourir a la realisation
des objectifs du Projet. Les prestations de l'Agence peuvent etre executees sous forne contractuelle par
des entreprises ou societes de services ou des ONG intervenant dans le domaine de la Promotion des
Filieres Agricoles, ou toutes autres personnes pouvant attester d'une competence reconnue.
L'Agence peut egalement recourir aux services d'une entreprise du secteur public competente, toutes
les fois que les taches et missions necessaires ne peuvent etre assurees efficacement par le secteur prive.
Article 4: Les Beneficiaires et la Saisine de l'Agence
1.    Les beneficiaires du Projet comprennent les personnes physiques ou morales de droit
prive directement concernees par son objet et operant dans son secteur d'activite.
2.     Pour beneficier des avantages du Projet, les beneficiaires ci-dessus vises doivent
satisfaire necessairement aux conditions d'eligibilite telles que prevues et d6finies dans
le Manuel de Procedures de I'Agence dEx6cution pour les Filieres Agricoles.
Article 5: Modalites et mise a disposition de fonds
Le Gouvernement assure toutes les charges de financement du Projet a concurrence de
.................................. FCFA
La mise a disposition des fonds se fera par versement sur le compte special ouvert a cet effet par
I'APROFA aupres d'un etablissement bancaire de la place.
Article 6: Domaine d'appui aux beneficiaires
Le Projet assistera les beneficiaires eligibles a l'appui de l'Agence dans les domaines techniques,
juridiques, institutionnels et administratifs. Le mandat specifique de I'Agence est detaille dans r'acte de
creation de l'Agence.



-56-                                         ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 20
Article 7: Des principes de reference
En application du mandat ci-dessus, I'Agence s'engage a executer sa mission en reference aux principes
suivants, qu'il s'agisse de ses propres activites de gestion interne ou de celles relatives a la conduite et a
la realisation de prestations de services:
Independance : Seul le Directeur Gen6ral de l'Agence ou son mandataire d6signe est
seul habilite a donner directement ou par voie hi6rarchique des instructions au
personnel de l'Agence. Aucune autre autorite exterieure a l'Agence ne peut se
prevaloir, vis-a-vis des activites de l'Agence, de prerogatives autres que celles qui se
referent explicitement a des engagements de droit commun applicables aux personnes
morales de droit pfive.
Impartialite : Dans ses relations avec les tiers, I'Agence ne pratique aucune forme de
discrimination ou de traitement preferentiel et applique exclusivement les procedures en
vigueur. Cette regle s'applique notamment aux beneficiaires des services du Projet ainsi
qu'aux fournisseurs et prestataires de services, ainsi qu'a toute personne ou institution
interessee a quelque titre que ce soit a l'activit6 de l'Agence ou a ses r6sultats.
Efficacite: La recherche de l'efficacite maximale doit guider en toutes circonstances les
decisions et l'application pratique des procedures de l'Agence.
Econon-ie : La recherche de I'efficacit6 au moindre cout possible doit constituer une
preoccupation constante de l'Agence, tant en ce qui conceme le fonctionnement de
i'Agence elle-meme, que les services qu'elle est amenee a pourvoir. En particulier
aucune consideration de prestige ne peut justifier 1'emploi ou l'acquisition de moyens ou
d'equipements ni le recours a des services autres que ceux strictement necessaires aux
activites de l'Agence et a la r6alisation de ses services.
Ces principes demeurent en toute circonstance les references absolues applicables a toutes les parties a
la presente Convention ainsi qu'a l'ensemble du personnel de l'Agence.
Article 8: Utilisation des fonds
Les fonds de l'Agence ont le caractere de deniers publics, ils beneficient a ce titre de la protection
prevue par la reglementation en vigueur en la matiere. Les fonds seront exclusivement utilises par
l'Agence pour:
i      le financement des prestations de services inscrites a son programme d'intervention qui
est etabli dans le respect des dispositions de l'article 2 ci-dessus;



-57-                                    ANX
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 20
ii    le financement des charges courantes du personnel, de fonctionnement et l'achat du
materiel et 6quipements de l'Agence.
Article 9: Procedures
1.    En application de la presente Convention, le PAVCOPA ainsi que les activites y afferentes
seront geres conformement aux dispositions du Manuel de Procedures de I'APROFA
elabore a cet effet et annexe A la presente Convention conmme en faisant partie integrante.
2.    Le Manuel ci-dessus vise, definit entre autres les procedures et les criteres de selection des
beneficiaires, les procedures adrinistratives, financieres et comptables ; il determine 6galement
les regles de contrBle applicables aux activites de l'Agence. Le Manuel deternine enfin les
r6gles regissant la procedure de passation des marches de l'Agence. nI sera compl&e par un
systeme de gestion administrative, financiere et comptable.
Article 10 : Procedure d'homologation des Entreprises prestataires de service
Une procedure d'homologation des entreprises prestataires de service sera instituee par l'Agence dans
le cadre de l'execution de ses activites. Cette procedure a pour objet d'etablir pour son propre besoin
une liste d'entreprises competentes. Cette liste regulierement ajustee est obligatoirement publiee au
siege de I'Agence trimestriellement.
TITRE I
DES ENGAGEMENTS DE L'ETAT
Article 11: Reconnaissance du caractere d'utilite publique de l'Agence et de sa mission
Le Gouvernement reconnait A P'Agence le caractere d'utilite publique
Article 12 : Des exonerations et exemptions
En raison du caractere d'utilite publique de l'Agence et de sa mission, le Gouvernement accorde a celle-
ci :
i     L'exoneration des droits et taxes applicables a l'importation des materiels et
equipements importes ou acquis au Mali et n6cessaires au fonctionnement de rAgence,
y compiis la TPS;
ii    L'admission en franchise temporaire des droits de douane et toutes autres taxes,
pendant la duree d'execution des activites du Projet, des vehicules et materiels soumis a



-58-                                         ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 20
immatriculation obligatoire importes au mali ou achetes sur place et affectes aux
missions de I'Agence.
Article 13 : Avantages consentis par le Gouvernement au profit des entreprises beneficiaires
1.    Outre les avantages consentis au titre de l'Article 12 ci-dessus, le Gouvernement sengage a
prendre en charge directement ou sous forme d'exoneration les droits et taxes en vigueur ou
tout autre impot ou taxe de meme nature qui sy substitueraient qui sont normalement dus par
les entreprises au titre des services qu'elles executent pour le compte de l'Agence.
TITRE m
DES ENGAGEMENTS DE L'AGENCE
Article 14: Obligations de I'Agence
1.    L'Agence s'engage a realiser integralement et correctement sa mission. Elle soblige a conseiller
ou assister les beneficiaires qui sont en rapport avec elle conformement au Manuel de
Procedures ci-dessus vise. Elle s'oblige a se conformer aux normes, usages et procbdures
administratives en vigueur au Mali, ainsi que toutes autres reglementations en la matiere.
2.    LAgence s'interdit d'accepter tout mandat qui ne lui aurait pas et6 specifiquement confie.
3.    LAgence fera realiser deux fois par an un audit comptable de ses operations et de sa gestion
propre par un Cabinet d'audit independant agree par l'IDA et le Gouvernement du Mali.
4.    Avant la fin de la deuxieme annee et prealablement a la mission d'evaluation conjointe
Etat/Bailleurs de fonds, une mission independante proc6dera a lWevaluation des activites de
l'Agence et proposera les mesures de r6ajustement et de correction necessaires, s'il y a lieu.
5.    L'Agence s'engage a fournir au Gouvemement et/ou a toute autre Institution designee par l'Etat
y compris les bailleurs de fonds, tous rapports et documents relatifs a sa gestion et a celle des
programmes qu'elle realise, conformement au Manuel de Procedures sus-vise.
6.    L'Agence s'engage a prendre toutes les mesures utiles au respect par le Gouvernement des
obligations mises a sa charge au titre de la presente Convention et dans les accords de
financement.



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 20
Article 15: Nomination, Revocation du Directeur General
Le Directeur General est obligatoirement une personne physique.
II est nomme par le Ministre charge du Developpement Rural sur proposition d'une commission de
nomination et apres approbation de l'IDA. Cette commission inclut entre autres un representant de
l'APCAM.
Le Directeur General est revoque par le Ministre charge du Developpement Rural qui doit au prealable
en informer l'IDA.
Dans tous les cas de figure, la revocation du Directeur General doit respecter la reglementation en
vigueur en matiere de rupture de contrat de travail.
Article 16: Missions de l'Agence
1.    L'Agence est chargee de promouvoir la valorisation et la commercialisation des produits
agricoles. Pour ce faire, il devra realiser les objectifs suivants a savoir:
A. A 1'egard des benificiaires, le Projet fournira les types d'appui suivants:
L      A l'ensemble des operateurs d'une filiere. et/ou aux operateurs de plusieurs filieres dans
une region donnee ou dans le pays, seront fournis des appuis polyvalents, comprenant
notamment:
i.    la realisation, en liaison avec les services specialises concernes de programmes de
recherche appliquee, de demonstration, de vulgarisation etc., avec fourniture eventuelle
de financement et/ou de formation complementaires;
11.    L'organisation des foires, competitions, seminaires, ateliers et autres rencontres
entre divers intervenants;
ii.    La mise en place d'infrastructures et equipements a usage collectif (marches de
gros, hangars);
iv.    La collecte, dans le cadre d'un reseau d'echanges et la diffusion publique
d'informations economiques et techniques sur la commercialisation et la
valorisation des produits agricoles.



ANNEX 2
-60-                                     Page 9 of 20
IL     A la demande d'individus isoles ou regroupes dans le cadre de societe, association,
cooperative etc, seront foumis des apVuis specifiques comprenant notamment:
i.     Des consultations individuelles ou de groupe sur diverses questions techniques
et economiques;
ii.    La fourniture de prestations de service ciblees (identification de technologies
appropriees, prospection de marches, recherches de partenariat, recherche de
financement, suivi de projets, appui a la gestion, etc).
mL     Aux associations professionnelles et aux chambres regionales d'agriculture seront
fournis des appuis comprenant notamment:
i.     L'assistance technique dans l'organisation de concertations interprofessionnelles
(exemples : Exportateurslbanques, exportateurs/transporteurs, etc);
ii.    L'assistance technique dans la mise en place de service interessant rensemble de
la filiere (exemples : representation des exportateurs de fruits et legumes);
iii.    L'assistance technique dans la mise en services d'appui interessant la filiere ou la
region que l'organisation professionnelle ou la chambre r6gionale d'agriculture
souhaite prendre en charge (exemples: collecte et diffusion d'informations sur
les cours de haricots verts, mangues sur le marche de Paris/Rungis);
iv.    Appui a la mise en place d'infrastructure de base: appui technique dans la
definition des infrastructures, modalites de gestion et de contribution des
beneficiaires a leur financement, financement eventuel.
B. Domaine d'intervention
Ces appuis toucheront les domaines ci-apres:
L      Les. techniques de production  agricoles: Ce seront des appuis lies a la
commercialisation specifiquement destines aux producteurs agricoles et realises en
liaison avec les services de vulgarisation, de recherche, de conditionnement, couvrant
notamment:
i.     Les techniques de production (choix variets, greffage, conduite, date semnis,
choix des intrants, etc);
Hi.    Les techniques de recolte, tri, emballage bord champs;



-61-                                           ANNEX2
Page 10 of 20
iii. L'identification des sources d'approvisionnement, de debouches, d'acheteurs
potentiels;
IL La commercialisation des produits agricoles et agro-alimentaires
i.     Collecte, diffusion  d'informations sur les marches (etudes de marches,
repertoire sur les quantites, prix sur les marches locaux, regionaux, europeens
et autres (mangues, haricots verts, autres produits);
ui.    Appui aux activites de promotion et de marketing (prospection de debouches,
foires, demonstration, recherche de partenaires, campagne de lancement de
produits, publicite, representation);
iii.   Collecte,  diffusion   d'informations  sur  les  techniques  post-recoltes
(conditionnement, stockage, triage, emballage);
iv.    Collecte, diffusion d'informations sur le transport (moyens, entreprises, tarifs,
reglementation);
v.     Equipements collectifs : marches de gros, hangars de dispatching etc.
IIL La transformation des produits agricoles
i.     Collecte, diffusion d'informations sur les techniques, technologies, procedes
industriels, expertises;
ii.    Consultations et etudes de faisabilite techniques;
iii.    Foires, seminaires, ateliers, demonstrations.
IV. Acces au credit:
i.     Collecte, diffusion d'informations sur les institutions bancaires et financieres,
modalites et formats de presentation de dossiers bancables, etc;
ii.    Appui a la presentation de requetes de financement;
iii.    Suivi technique des projets finances;
iv.    Appui a la concertation avec les institutions financieres, contribution a la
formation ciblee des cadres en charge de l'evaluation et du suivi des projets de
commercialisation et de valorisation des produits agricoles;



-62-                                         ANNEX2
Page 11 of 20
v.     Appui technique a la mise en place de fonds de garantie, participation
6ventuelle a leur financement.
V. Appui juridique et ligal
i.     Collecte et diffusion d'informations, sur la fiscalite, les formalites et tarifications
douanieres, reglementations, contrats, procedures de constitution de societes,
associations, GIE, coop6ratives;
ui.    Consultations individuelles sur les memes themes;
VL Appui en gestion
i.     Collecte, diffusion sur la r6glementation et les systemes comptables;
ii.    Consultations individuelles (bilans, audits, expertise comptable et fiscale).
C. ComplImentariti avec d'autres projets et programmes
Le Projet aura recours aux services specialises tels que le PNVA, la CMDT/DRA, l'IER etc, pour la
realisation des progranmmes de recherche et de vulgarisation cibles aux besoins de ses beneficiaires. Le
Projet prend aussi comrne ligne de conduite generale de referer les demandeurs eventuels aux
institutions, projets et programmes deja existant pour tous les appuis relevant de leur competences
respectives, et notamnrent:
i      Toute requete d'etude de faisabilite, ou de preparation de dossiers bancables
provenant d'entreprises dont le profil cadre par exemple avec celui des
beneficiaires potentiels de l'APEP (entreprise de taille importante) soit referee a
cette derniere;
ii.    Toute requete pour le montage de dossiers bancables et/ou le suivi des projets
d'entreprises non b6n6ficiaires de I'appui de l'APEP, soient r6feree a "Credit
Initiative",
hi.    Toute requete d'appuis relevant des prerogatives du Projet d'appui a l'irrigation
priv6e sera ref6ree a ce dernier.
Concemant ce demier point, il est recommande de faire evoluer les projets d'appui a l'irrigation priv6e
et le projet d'appui a la commercialisation et a la valorisation des produits agricoles de maniere a les



- 6 3-                                       ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 20
integrer au bout de cinq ans dans une structure unique d'appui aux entreprises agricoles privees. Pour
ce faire, il serait opportun d'ores et deja de prendre les dispositions ci-apres:
a.    identifier les procedures permettant aux deux projets de combiner et integrer leurs
appuis aux beneficiaires qui le demandent au niveau national et dans la mesure du
possible dans les zones d'implantation respectives de la premiere phase (Koulikoro et
Sikasso);
b.     envisager les options d'integration des deux  agences d'appui au terme des deux
projets.
D. Contributions des b6n6ficiaires aux couits des appuis fournis:
La perennit6 des actions d'appuis qui sont adaptees aux besoins des beneficiaires est liMe a la capacite
de ces derniers a les prendre en charge une fois le projet fini. I1 est donc crucial que le principe et la
capacit6 de contribution au financement des actions d'appui soient etablis des le demarrage du projet. II
est propose a cet effet que:
i.     meme s'il est admis que les appuis polvvalents a caractere de service public
soient subventionnes en grande partie, certaines interventions pourraient faire
l'objet dune participation des beneficiaires (exemples: location de stands
d'exposition dans les foires, vente de guides sur la fiscalite, le financement, etc).
Hi.    le cout de la contribution a la charge du ben6ficiaire est fonction du type
d'appui specifique demande; la contribution y afferente doit etre recuper6e
(exemples : tarifs forfaitaires pour la realisation d'une etude de faisabilite
technique, la recherche d'un partenaire commercial, I'appui au lancement dune
entreprise, ou le suivi de la mise en place d'un projet/programme).
fii.    les associations professionnelles et chambres regionales d'agriculture prennent
progressivement a leur compte le cout de fonctionnement de tout service
d'appui qu'elles souhaitent fournir elles-memes, cette prise en charge
progressive devra intervenir au moins des la deuxieme phase du projet (suivi a
I'evaluation a mi-parcours).



-64-                                       ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 20
Article 17: Organisation et zones d'intervention de l'Agence
1.    L'Agence etablira des branches regionales A Sikasso et a Segou dans la premieres phase du
Projet, puis dans la deuxieme phase A Mopti. Les branches regionales appuieront les activites
regionales selon trois axes:
Le premier axe sera destine A la promotion des fili&res les plus porteuses de la region
sous la forme de campagne d'information, de demonstration, de mobilisation des
services regionaux de vulgarisation et de recherche, de tests, de visites et etudes de
marche, de mise en contact des differents intermediaires y compris les institutions
financieres;
Le deuxieme axe concerne I'assistance technique necessaire aux entrepreneurs
individuels, ce, A leur demande, notamment A travers les consultations sur tous les
e1lments de leur projet:
-      Enfin le troisieme axe consistera A fournir des infrastructures collectives limitees
(marche de gros) et l'assistance technique A la chambre d'agriculture regionale afin
d'assurer les services techniques utiles A la perennite du projet.
2.     L'Agence par son unite de coordination basee A Bamako, etablira annuellement en
collaboration avec les associations professionnelles (limitees dans un premier temps a
I'AMELEF, la Mutuelle des Cuirs et Peaux et une autre association dans la deuxieme phase du
Projet) des budgets/programmes de promotion de leur filiere respective. Ces programmes
inclueront essentiellement I'assistance technique  specialisee, l'organisation  d'ateliers de
concertation, la foumiture d'equipements limitee et la realisation d'infrastructures mineures.
L'Agence gardera le contr6le de tous les decaissements faits sur budgets/programmes.
3.     L'Agence assurera par son unite de coordination la gestion financiere, la supervision et
l'evaluation du Projet. Elle assurera egalement la mise en place et le maintien d'une banque de
donn6es sur les informations relatives aux personnes ressources, aux technologies adaptees, a
la rbalisation d'enquetes de marche, a la collecte et A la diffusion de toutes autres informations
utiles dans le cadre du Projet.
4.     L'Agence gerera aussi une petite composante d'appui A l'acces au credit qui aura pour objectif
de faciliter un meilleur acces des entrepreneurs du secteur du Projet au credit.



-65-                                    ANNEX2
Page 14 of 20
Artide 18: Denonciation de la convention
La presente convention peut etre denoncee par chaque partie signataire.
Elle peut egalement etre denoncee en cas de dissolution pr6nature, de lAgence ou par rarrivde du
terme.
La denonciation de la presente convention devra &re port6e a la connaissance de ITDA.
LE MINISTRE DU DEVELOPPEMENT                              LE DIRECTEUR DE L'APROFA
RURAL
M.                                                        N



-66-                                       ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 20
PROJET DE DECISION DE CREATION DE L'AGENCE
POUR LA PROMOTION DES FILIERES AGRICOLES
(APROFA)
Le Pr6sident de I'APCAM
Vu la loi N 93-044 du 04 AoOt 1993 portant creation des Chambres Regionales d'Agriculture et de
l'Assembl6e Penmanente des Chambres dAgriculture du Mali;
Vu le Decret N' 93-295 P-RM du 18 Aout 1993 fixant l'organisation et les modalites de
fbnctionnement des chambres regionales d'agriculture et de l'Assemblee Permanente des Chambres
crAgriculture du Mali;
Vu la lettre N_                 du                    Ministre du Developpement Rural et de
lEnvirmnnement adressee au President de I'APCAM;
Vu le proc6s-verbal d'Assemblee Consulaire de I'APCAM tenue le
Dlcide:
TiTRE I: DISPOSITIONS GENERALES
Artide 1:
n est cree par I'Assemblee Permanente des Chambres d'Agiiculture du Mali (APCAM) un organe de
type droit priv6 d6nomme "Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres Agricoles" en abreg6 "APROFA".
Artide 2: Siege
Le si6ge de rAgence est fix6 a Bamnako et peut &re transf&e  partout au Mali sur decision de l'Instance
Dirigeante et apres approbation du Ministere charge du DNveloppement Rural.
Artide 3: Objet
LAgence a pour objet d'induire une croissance soutenue du secteur agro-alimentaire notamment en lui
asnt une augmentation sensible des exportations sur les marches regionaux africains, europeens et
une substitution accrue, au niveau du marche national, des productions locales par les importations.



-67-                                      ANNEXX2
Page 16 of 20
L'Agence devra assurer le developpement a moyen terme des capacites techniques, gestionnaires,
professionnelles et organisationnelles des entreprises privees engagees, ou desireuses de s'engager dans
les activites de valorisation et de commercialisation des produits agricoles.
Article 4: Duree
La duree de l'Agence est fixee a cinq annees. Cependant cette duree peut etre prorogee par decision du
Gouvemement apres approbation du bailleur de fonds, I.D.A.
TITRE II: LES RESSOURCES
Article 5 : Les ressources
Les ressources de l'Agence se composent de:
Fonds, subventions provenant du Gouvernement du Mali;
Produits des prestations effectu6es et entrant dans le cadre des missions de l'Agence;
Produits du placement des fonds disponibles.
TITRE Im: DE L'ADMINISTRATION ET DE LA DIRECTION
Article 6 : Organes
Les organes de l'Agence sont:
Le Comite Consultatif;
La Direction Generale.
L LE COMITE CONSULTATIF
Article 7: Composition
Le Comite Consultatif est compose de:
- Un representant du Ministere charge du Developpement Rural;
- Un representant du Ministere charge des Finances et de I!Econorie;
- Un representant du bureau de l'APCAM;
- Un representant de la chambre d'agriculture des zones d'implantation du PAVCOPA;



-68-                                     ANNEX 2
Page 17 of 20
- Un representant du Ministere charge de l'Industrie;
- Un representant du Commissariat a la Promotion des Femmes;
- Un representant du Ministere charge de l'Equipement et des Transports;
- Un repr6sentant de la Direction Nationale des Affaires Economiques;
- Un representant de l'OMBEVI;
- Un representant de la Direction nationale de ]'Agriculture;
- Un representant des associations professionnelles concemees;
- Un representant de lInstitut d'Economie Rurale (IER);
Article 8 : Presidence du Comite Consultatif
La Presidence du Comite Consultatif est assuree par le Representant du Ministere charge du
Developpement Rural et la Vice-Presidence par le Representant du Ministere des Fmances et du
Commerce.
Sous reserve des fonctions specifiques a lui confier, le role du President du Comite Consultatif consiste
a convoquer les r6unions du Comit6 Consultatif
Article 9: Les pouvoirs du Comite Consultatif
Le Comite Consultatif est l'organe collegial de I'Agence. A ce titre, son rOle consiste principalement a
faciliter le travail de I'Agence. L'Agence pourra faire appel en cas de besoin a la competence des
membres du Comite Consultatif
Le Comite Consultatif prend notamment connaissance des propositions de budget et de programmes
annuels prepares et transrnis par le Directeur de l'Agence;
Le Comite Consultatif emet ses avis, commentaires et suggestions le cas echeant.
A r'exclusion de ce qui precede, tous les autres pouvoirs sont devolus au Directeur General qui informe
regulierement le Comite Consultatif des activites de I'Agence selon le modele de rapport prevu au
Manuel des Procedures de l'Agence.
Article 10 : Prerogatives du Gouvernement du Mali et de l'IDA
Seuls le Ministre charge du Developpement Rural et l'IDA peuvent s'opposer a l'execution du
budget/programme annuel de I'APROFA, une fois que celui-ci a ete revise et finalise sur la base des
commentaires des membres du Comite Consultatif



-69-                                    ANNEX 2
Page 18 of 20
Les representants de l'IDA et du MDRE disposeront pour ce faire d'un delai de trente (30) jours pour
s'opposer a l'execution du budget/programmne et demander le cas echeant les modifications necessaires.
Leur opposition devra etre notifiee par ecrit au Directeur de l'Agence qui en informera les autres
membres du Comite Consultatif
Les rapports d'audit semi-annuels des comptes du Projet tels que prevus par le manuel de procedures
de l'APROFA doivent egalement etre presentes pour revue au representant du Minist6re charge du
Developpement Rural et a celui de l'IDA.
Article 11 : Fonctionnement
Le Conite Consultatif se reunit sur convocation de son President au moins une fois par an et en tant
que de besoin. Les convocations accompagnees de documents de la reunion sont envoyees au moins
15 jours a I'avance par lettre recommandee avec accuse de r6ception ou par cahier de transmission,
indiquant la date, le lieu et l'ordre du jour de la reunion. En cas d'urgence, le President, a defaut, le
Directeur General, peut valablement convoquer la reunion sans dMlai.
La reunion du Comite Consultatif peut etre egalement convoquee en s6ance extraordinaire.
IL LE DIRECTEUR GENERAL
Article 12: Nomination et Revocation du Directeur General
Le Directeur General est obligatoirement une personne physique.
II est nommr par le Ministre charge du Developpement Rural sur proposition d'une comrnission de
nomination et apres approbation de l'IDA. Cette commission inclut entre autres membres, le
representant de I'APCAM.
Le Directeur General est revoque a la demande du Ministre charge du Developpement Rural apres
approbation de lIIDA.
Dans tous les cas de figure, la revocation du Directeur G6neral doit respecter les conditions de fond et
de forrne en matiere de rupture de contrat de travail.



-70-                                     ANNEXX2
Page 19 of 20
En cas de revocation du Directeur General, le Ministre charge du Developpement Rural nomme
obligatoirement un Directeur interimaire parmi le personnel de l'agence.
Cet interim ne peut en aucun cas exceder trois (3) mois.
Article 13 : Attributions
Le Directeur General est lie a I'Agence par un contrat de travail d'une duree ne pouvant depasser deux
ans renouvelables. Ce contrat de travail est signe par le Ministre charge du Developpement Rural apres
approbation prealable du projet de contrat par l'IDA.
Article 14: Pouvoir du Directeur General
Sous reserve de ce qui est indique a l'article 9 ci-dessus, le Directeur General a les pouvoirs les plus
etendus pour assurer le bon fonctionnement de I'Agence et 1'execution de la mission qui lui est confiee.
A cet effet, il agit dans les strictes limites de la presente decision, du Reglement Interieur et des
conventions engageant l'Agence, ainsi que tous autres textes complementaires.
Le Directeur General procede a son tour au recrutement du personnel de l'Agence sur la base des
csiteres de competence et de bonne moralite.
n1 peut confier a des consultants externes specialistes, les missions qui lui semblent necessaires pour
1'excution des differentes taches qui lui sont assignees.
Le Directeur General a l'enti&re responsabilite des fonds mis a sa disposition. II ordonne les depenses,
signe les contrats et les conventions de toute nature entrant dans le cadre de I'accomplissement de la
mission de l'Agence, a charge pour lui d'apporter la justification des depenses engagees.
11 doit tenir, conformement aux normes comptables generalement admises et aux usages uniformement
appliques, les livres de compte et les dossiers relatifs a sa gestion dans le respect du Manuel de
Procedure.
Le Directeur General est charge de veiller a la bonne application du Reglement Interieur de l'Agence.



-71-                                   ANNEX2
Page 20 of 20
TITRE IV: DLSPOSfTIONS DIVERSES
Article 15: Modification de I'acte de creation de l'Agence
Le present acte de creation de l'Agence peut etre modifie sur proposition du Ministre charg6 du
Developpement Rural en concertation avec I'APCAM et apres approbation de lIDA.
La decision de dissolution de l'Agence est egalement prise dans les m8mes conditions.
En outre, lAgence est egalement dissoute a l'expiration de la duree prevue a I'article 4 alinea 1, sous
reserve de la possibilite de prorogation prevue a l'alinea 2 du meme article.
En cas de dissolution de I'Agence, le Ministre charg6 du Developpement Rural designe une personne
charg6e de la liquidation des biens de l'Agence. L'actif disponible apres apurement du passif reste la
propriet6 du Gouvemement du Mali.
Article 16:
Les organes competents de I'APCAM sont charges de l'execution et de l'application de la pr6sente
decision qui sera enregistree et communiquee partout ou besoin sera.
Bamako, le
LE PRESIDENT



- 7 2 -                                                 ANNEX3
Page 1 of3
Personnel de l'Agence: Composition, Responsabilites et Qualifications
1.     Directeur de l'Agence: Voir page suivante
Le directeur, au dela de ces activites de gestion et de supervision des activites de 11-agence, est
particulierement responsable des programmes de travail avec les associations professionnelles (AMELEF,
Mutuelle des cuirs et peaux, autres..). II s'appuiera en general sur une equipe de consultants (1 local, 1
expatrie) specialises dans la filiere et intervenant pour de courtes missions, mais de facon reguliere au cours
du projet., en support a l'association professionnelle.
2.     Unite de Coordination (Bamako)
Administration:
i) un (1) directeur administratif et financier: il assure la gestion financiere du projet, et le bon
deroulement des relations financieres entre les antennes, le reseau d'echanges et l'unite centrale, et
entre l'agence et l'IDA. II prepare le travail d'audit annuel a realiser par un auditeur exterieur. et il
prepare les budgets annuels.
ii) un (1) aide comptable: saisie comptable et classement pieces comptables sous la supervision du
directeur financier.
iii) un (1) responsable du suivi-evaluation : De preference un economiste rural, avec une bonne
experience du suivi-evaluation dans le domaine rural, et une bonne capacite de redaction et
presentation synthetique . II sera responsable de la mise en place du schema de suivi-evaluation et
de sa mise en oeuvre, avec la realisation de rapports d'activites chaque semestre, et du support au
directeur general et au directeur financier pour la realisation du programme d'activites et le budget
annuel pour I'annee a venir.
Wvseau d'Echange:
i) un (1) ingenieur de l'agro-alimentaire, avec cinq (5) ans d'experience dans la gestion de reseaux
d'echange, de banques d'information, et ma^itrisant les techniques de diffusion de l'information.
Cette personne est responsable du reseau d'echange et supervise le technicien superieur des
statistiques.
ii) un (1) assistant pour gestion de donnees: technicien maitrisant les techniques de saisie et
d'analyse et de gestion de la banque d'informations.
Personnel de support:
i) un (1) secretaire de direction,
ii) un (1) secretaire,
iii) un (1) Chauffeur / commissionnaire,
iv) un (1) Chauffeur
iv) un (1) gardien;



- 73 -                                              ANNEX3
Page 2 of 3
3.     Antennes Regionales, (par antenne):
Chef d'antenne et cadre technique: La responsabilit6 de chef d'antenne sera assuree par le premier des deux
cadres ci-apres, qui doivent posseder une formation universitaire au minimum du niveau ing6nieur ou
maitrisant:
i) un (1) Un economiste rural, avec de preference une bonne experience dans l'agro-alimentaire
avec un minimum de cinq ans d'experience professionnelle, maitrisant les techniques de la
communication et l'animation rurale. Ce cadre assure la direction de I'antenne regionale, et sera
responsable des activites de promotion des filieres porteuses regionales.
ii) un (1) econoniste financier, specialiste de I'analyse de projets, avec un minimum de cinq (5) ans
d'experience professionnelle, et ayant de preference une experience en agro-alimentaire. II sera
responsable de I'appui individuel sur demande aux entrepreneurs ou entreprises de ce sous secteur.
iii) un (1) specialite en technologies agro-alimentaires. Ce poste au depart ne sera pourvu qu'a
Sikasso, et sous la forme d'une contribution (protocole d'accord avec I' antenne de Sikasso) de
l'ONG canadienne CECI
Appui adininistratif et logistique:
i) un aide-comptable,
ii) un (1) secretaire,
iii) un chauffeur,
iv) un gardien



- 74 -                                                 ANNEXX3
Page 3of 3
Responsabilites et Qualifications du Directeur de I'Agence
Responsabilites:
Le directeur de l'Agence de Promotion des Filieres Agricoles est responsable:
i) de la coordination et de la supervision de 1'ensemble des activites de I'Agence;
ii) de la dissemination des informations relatives aux missions et aux modalites d'intervention de
l'Agence;
iii) du recrutement du personnel de l'Agence, y compris les consultants, et de la supervision de
leurs activites;
iv) de la preparation des programmes d'activites et des budgets annuels de l'Agence;
v) de la preparation des rapports d'activites semestriels et annuels de l'Agence;
vi) de coordonner les activites liees au projet et realisees en liaison avec ou par d'autres institutions,
tels que l'IER, le PNVA, la CMDT, l'ON, etc.;
vi) de mettre a la disposition des missions de supervision et d'evaluation et des auditeurs externes
toutes informations relatives aux activites, au fonctionnement, et a la situation financiere de
l'Agence;
vii) d'entretenir des relations avec les differents ministeres, services techniques, organisations non
gouvernementales, projets et programmes, autres initiatives des bailleurs de fonds, et autres parties
concemres par la promotion des activites du secteur prive.
Qualifications:
Le directeur prospectif de l'Agence doit fournir les preuves:
i) d'une formation universitaire de haut niveau, soit au moins l'equivalent d'un diplome de
specialisation (3eme cycle) dans le domaine de l'economie rurale, de l'agro-alimentaire, ou dans une
autre discipline agronomique ou 6conomique;
ii) d'une experience professionnelle cumulee d'au moins dix (10) ans;
iii) d'une experience professionnelle d'au moins cinq (5) ans dans le secteur prive, ou a defaut dans
une activite dominee par les relations avec le secteur prive;
iv) d'une experience de "leadership" d'une equipe de professionnels de haut niveau et de la gestion
d'activites multiples et complexes;
v) d'une bonne familiarite avec les methodes rationnelles de gestion de ressources humaine et
financieres;
v) d'une aptitude bien developp6e a communiquer efficacement avec differents types
d'interlocuteurs






AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROJECT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
IMPLEMENTATION STEPS                                           IDA SUPERVISION         YEAR 1
1995-96
EFFECTIVENESS
(conditioned by signed convention APCAM-GOM, creation of agency APFA, signed audit contract for project  Aug. 95           Aug. 95
accounts, established accounting system for project, completion of project launch workshop)
Project auditor contract should cover 2 years renewable and TORS including adhoc support to project
accounting during the calendar year.
PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP                                                                                 Sept. 95           Sept. 95
(Agency: Director and main managers, MDRE, Consultative Committee, Beneficiaries, IDA)
The financial manager at coordinating unit and two directors for Sikasso and Segou should be appointed so they                                  
can participate in the workshop.
Maim elemeats of workshop:
- Discussions 1st year budget/work program for each component and the 5 year vision;
- Discussions of the Implementation Plan;
- Discussions and Finalization of implementation and performance indicators, and of monitoring/evaluation
mechanisms;
- Discussionfimformation on role of each actor in the project and institutional set-up;
- Mechanisms of review and foliow-up - particularly by Beneficiaries' representatives;
- Discussions/finalization of programs with AMELEF and Hides and Skins Exporters Association
- Finalization of accounting system and training schedule;
Training of rdevant project staff on accounting procedures, modules, software.                                             Sept. 95
Setting up of Sikasso, Segau Regional agencies.                                                                            OCL 95
Setting up of the Network/dat bank in Bamako.                                                                              Oct. 95



IMPLEMENTATION STEPS                                          IDA SUPERVISION        YEAR 1
1995-96
- Preparation of project for a wholesale market infrastructure in Sikasso and in Segou.
- Start-up of program  (green beans campaign) with AMELEF - Banks - PNVA - IER - DNA - DNAE.         Nov. 95            Nov. 95
- Start-up of another export test with hide and skins Association.
- Start-up of Neighboring Market Surveys (C6te d'lvoire, Togo, Senegal, Benin .... ) for Malian products                Nov. 95
- Study on cold storage situation in Mali (AMELEF) and identification of project for cold storage infrastructure        Nov. 95
(AMELEF) at the airport.
- Transmnission and Review of Regional program for Sikasso agency.                                                      Nov. 95
- Transmnission and Review of Regional program for Segou agency.                                                        Nov. 95
- Support from auditor to prepare for closing of the accounts and startup of audit work.                                Dec. 95
- Finalization / review of project for wholesale market structure in Sikasso and in Segou and launch of                 Dec. 95
procurement process delegated to qualified technical assistance).                                                    Jan. 96
- Completion of first annual audit report.                                                                              Feb. 96
- Preparation of survey on oilseeds and sheanut activities - identification of support needs and Association.           Feb. 96
- Study on environmental impacts of hides and skins activities in Mali.                                                 Feb. 96
- End of green beans campaign with AMELEF presentation of results.                                                      Mar. 96
Apr. 96           Apr. 96
- Presentation of 1st semester report (Rapport d'Activitis) by the agency (October 95 - Mar 96).                        Apr. 96
- Review, finalization, and launching of Project for infrastructure (cold storage) for AMELEF.
- Preparation and start up of program for Mangoes (AMELEF) with DNA - DNAE - Banks - IER - PNVA.                        May 96
- Presentation of results of Export Test with Hides and Skins Export Associations (MCP) and preparation of
support program to MCP (including limited collective infrastructure or equipment).
- Preparation of Second Year Program for the agency, including Sikasso and Segou units.                                 Jun. 96
- Completion of wholesale market infrastructure in Sikasso and Segou.                                                   Jul. 96
- Regional Workshop for presentation of Project results for 95-96 and of program for 96-97.           Jul. 96           Jul. 96
- National Workshop with some media coverage - with documents on results of Ist year (95-96) and program for
2nd year, 96- 97, (participation of IDA supervision) for all components of project, including database, with       Jul.-Aug. 96
MDRE, Consultative Committee and Beneficiaries.
- Finalization of 96 - 97 program of work for the agency - (Agency - MDRE and IDA).                                     Aug. 96
CD \
0 



IMPLEMENTATION STEPS                                          IDA SUPERVISION         YEAR 2
1996-97
- Start-up of annual support program implementation by Sikasso and Segou Units.                                          Sept. 96
- Review of 4-year program and detailed 96-97 technical assistance program with hides and skins association              Sept. 96
and finalization of implementation schedule including identification of limited equipmentlinfrastructure.
- Completion of investment program for cold storage.                                                                      Oct 96
- Workshop on oilseeds/sheanut - identification of support needs and existing associations.                               Oct. 96
- Review results of mango ecport with AMELEF.                                                                             Oct. 96
- Start-up of 2nd year program (green beans campaign) with AMELEF - Banks - PNVA - IER - DNA - DNAE.   Nov. 96            Nov. 96
- Start-up of support program to hides and skins Association (MCP).                                                       Nov. 96
- Launching of procurement process for infrastructure /or equipment for hides and skins Association.                      Nov. 96
- Joint workshop with Private Irrigation project to prepare Mid-term Review (in July 97).                                 Nov. 96
- Preparation of Mopti workshop to identify specific needs of support from another regional unit                          Dec. 96
(including wholesale market or other collective infrastructure).
- Completion of annual audit report.                                                                                      Feb. 97
- Regional Workshop in Mopti (with Private Irrigation agency) and preparation of a program for the                        Mar. 97
regional unit in MoptL
- Completion of infrastructure/equipment for hides and skins Association.                                                 Mar. 97
- End of green beans campaign with AMELEF;                                                                                Mar. 97
presentation of results.                                                                              Apr. 97            Apr. 97
- Presentation of 1st semester report (Rapport d'Activites) by the agency (October 96- March 97).                         Apr. 97
- Set-up of procurement and implementation procedures for Segou wholesale market infrastructure.                          Apr. 97
- Preparation of Mid Term Review Agenda and lauching of necessary surveys.                                                April 97
- Preparation and start up of program for Mangoes (AMELEF) with DNA - DNAE - Banks - [ER - PNVA.                          May 97
- Review of results of Export Test with Hides and Skins Export Associations (MCP)and preparation of work
program with the MCP (including limnited infrastructure).
- Regional Workshops for presentation of Project results for the past year and of program for 97-98.                      Jun. 97
- Preparation of annual Program for the agency, including Sikasso and Segou units.                                        Jul. 97
- Regional Workshops for presentation of Project results for the past year and of program for 97-98.                      Jun. 97
- Transmission of activities reports, annual programs and documnents related to the mid term review to MDRE,            Jun. - Jul. 97
Consultative Committee and IDA.
- Mid-Term Review and National Workshop with some media coverage - with documents on results of project
and program for 2nd phase of project (participation of IDA supervision) with Consultative Comnittee and  Jul. 97       Jul. 97
MDRE.
- Finalization of second phase (97-2000) program of work and detailed work program for 97-98 for the                      Aug. 97
sgency - (Agency - MDRE and IDA).
1*



IMPLEMENTATION STEPS                                         IDA SUPERVISION        YEAR 3
1997-98
- Start-up of annual support program implementation - By Sikasso, Segou., Mopti Regional Units.                       Sep. 97
- Purchase of seasonal package of vehicles/equipment (procurement delegated to qualified technical assistance).       Sep. 97
- Setting up of Mopti agency.                                                                                         Oct. 97
- Launching of procurement of wholesale market/infastructure in Mopti.                                                Nov. 97
- Start-up of program with Association dealing with oilseeds/shea nut activities.                                     Nov. 97
- Start-up of annual program (green beans campaign) with AMELEF - Banks - PNVA - [ER - DNA - DNAE.  Nov. 97           Nov. 97
- Presentation of Regional program for Sikasso agency.                                                                Nov. 97
- Review of audit TORs and appointment of auditor (renewal of first phase contract or new contract).                  Nov. 97
- Presentation of project for wholesale market structure in Mopti and launch of procurement process (delegated        Dec. 97
to qualified agency or technical assistance).                                                                       Jan. 98
- Completion of annual audit report                                                                                    Feb. 98
- End of green beans campaign with AMELEF;                                                          Apr. 98           Mar. 98
presentation of results.                                                                                              Apr. 98
- Presentation of Ist semester report (Rapport d'Activites) by the agency (October- March).                            Apr. 98
- Preparation and stan up of program for Mangoes (AMELEF) with DNA- DNAE - Banks - IER - PNVA                          May 98
- Presentation of results of program with Hides and Skins Export Associations (MCP).                                   May 98
- Preparation of annual Program for the agency, including Sikasso, Segou and Mopti units.                              Jun. 98
- Regional Workshop for presentation of Project results for 97-98 and of program for 98-99.          Jul. 98           Jul. 98
- National Workshop on results of past year and program fornext year, (participation of IDA supervision) for all       Jul. 98
components of project, including database, with MDRE, Consultative Committee and Beneficiaries.
- Finalization of 98-99 program of work for the agency - (Agency - MDRE and IDA).                                     Aug. 98



IMPLEMENTATION STEPS                                           IDA SUPERVISION        YEAR 4
1998-99
- Start-up of annual support programs implementation by Sikano, Segou and Mopti Reional Units.                            Sep. 98
- Start up of annual program (green beans campaign) with AMELEF - Banks - PNVA - IER - DNA - DNAE      Nov. 98           Nov. 98
- Start up of annual program with bide and skins Association.                                                            Nov. 98
- Completion of annual audit report                                                                                       Feb. 99
- End of green beans campaign with AMELEF;                                                             Apr. 99           Mar. 99
presentation of results.                                                                                               Apr. 99
- Presentation of 1st semester report (Rapport d'Activites) by the agency (October 95 - Mar 96).                          Apr. 99
- Preparation and start up of program for Mangoes (AMELEF) with DNA - DNAE - Banks - [ER - PNVA                           May 99
- Presentation of results of annual program with Hides and Skins Export Associations (MCP)
- Presentation of results of annual program with oilseeds/sheanut association.
- Preparation of annual Program for the agency, including Sikasso ,Segou and Mopti units.                                 Jun. 99
- Regional Workshop for presentation of Project results for past year and of program for 99-2000.      Jul. 99            Jul. 99
- National Workshop on results of past year and program for next year 99-2000 (participation of IDA
supervision) for all components ofproject, including database, with MDRE, Consultative Committee and                   Jul. 99
Beneficiaries.
- Finalization of 99-2000 program of work for the agency - (Agency - MDRE and IDA).                                       Aug. 99
0f>I



IMPLEMENTATION STEPS                                           IDA SUPERVISION        YEAR 5
1999-20
- San-up of annual support program inwastrucure by Sikasso, Segou and Mopti Regional Units.                               Sep. 99
- Start-up of program (geen beans campaign) with AMELEF - Banks - PNVA - JER - DNA - DNAE.
- Start-up of program with hide and skins.                                                             Nov. 99           Nov. 99
- Start-up of program with oileeds/sheanut association.
- Completion of annual audit report.                                                                                      Feb. 20
- End of green beans campaign with AMELEF;                                                                              Mar. 2000
presentation of results.                                                                            Apr. 20           Apr. 2000
- Presentation of Ist semester report (Rapport d'Actvitts) by the agency (October- March).                               Apr. 2000
- Preparation and stan up of program for Mangoes (AMELEF) with DNA - DNAE - Banks - [ER -PNVA.                           May 2000
- Presentation of results of Export Test with Hides and Skins Export Associations (MCP).
- Presentation of results of oilseeds/sheanut program.
- Regional Workshop for presentation of Project results for past year and entire project life.          Jul. 20          Jul. 2000
- National Workshop on results of entire project and potential and steps taken for transfer of services to                                   o
Chambre d'agriculture and professional associations (participation of IDA supervision) with MDRE,                     Jul. 2000
Consultative Comnittee and Beneficiaries.
- Closing of all activities.                                                                                             Sep.2000
- Preparation of projoct completion report.                                                                             Oct - Dec.
2000
- Closing of project                                                                                                     Mar. 2001
U



MAJOR PROCUREMENT STEPS DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(To be delegated to qualified Technical assistance)
Jul. 95 Oct. 95|Dec. 95 Ma 96 Jul. 96 Oct. 96 Dec. 96 Ma 97 Jud. 97 Oct. 97 Dec. 97 May 98
|-     m                     -....... -  .._,.a
Wholeae Market In Sikasso and Segou
- identification                                       _
- review/launch procurement
- execution
- completion
Cold storage AMELEF
- identification                                      ___ -
- launching procurement                                            _
- execution
- completion
Infrastructure/Equipment for hides and skins
- identification/review                                           _  _
- launching procurement
- execution
- completion
Wholesale Market in Mopti
- identification                                                                         _  .  _     _   _  
- launching
- execution
- completion                                                                                                        _
a:\cdejou3.xls
0i



MAJOR STEPS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Sept.  Mar.  Sept.  Mar.  Sept.  Mar.  Sept.  Mar.  Sept.  Mar.  Sept.  Mar.
DATE        95    96    96    97    97    98    98   99          99   2000  2000  2001
EFFECTIVENESS                                           Sept. 95    m
PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP                                  Sept. 95     _
AMELEF PROGRAM STARTUP                                   Nov. 95
SIKASSO/SEGOU PROGRAMS STARTUP                           Oct. 95       _
HIDES AND SKINS
- Exports Tests                                     Dec. 95          M L
- Study on environmental impact                     Feb. 96            a
- Identification of program                          Jul. 96
- Startup of program                                Nov. 96
MOPTI REGIONAL UNIT
- Mopti Workshop                                    Dec. 96                       As
- Set-up of agency and program startup              Sept. 97                                _
MID-TERM REVIEW
- Preparation (Surveysi                             Apr. 97                            m
- Mid-term Review                                    Jul. 97                               _
OILSEEDS/SHEANUT
- StudyAidentification of Needs/existing assoc.     Feb. 96             S
- Workshop: identification/ preparation of program  Oct. 96                     _
- Continuing preparation
-Startup of program                                 Nov. 97
COMPLETION SURVEY/JOINT REVIEW                         May-Jun. 97
- Baseline survey/performance assessment
- Options to sustain project benefits
COMPLETION OF PROJECT                                 Sept. 31, 2000
CLOSING DATE                                         March 31, 2001
_ _           _                                        xO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CDX



REGULAR STEPS IN ANNUAL PROGRAM
Sept.  Oct. | Nov.  Dec. | Jan.   Feb. | Mar.  Apr. j May   Jun. | Jul. J Aug.
AGENCY PROGRAM
-launching of Annual Project                           _   _ _ _      _ _  _  _
- first semester activities report
- transmission of report. National workshop                                                                              _
on program. Review of annual results.
- approval of program
AMELEF
start-up of green beans campaign
presentation of results of campaign
start-up of mango campaign                                                                         _          .  _  _            - _
presentation of results of mango campaign
oD
SIKASSO and SEGOU UNITS
and MOPTI UNIT (year 3)
- start-up implementation
- preparation and review of first semester respits
- preparation of annual program
- regional workshop on program
HIDES AND SKINS
- start-up of program (Nov. 96)
- presentation of results
- preparation of program/approval
OILSEEDS AND SHEANUT
- start-up of program (Nov. 97)
- presentation of results
- preparation of program/approval
a:\cdejou.xls






- 84 -                                          ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROMOTION
PILOT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS ON PROJECT FILES
1.    Project Execution Agency's (APFA) Manual of Procedures (1995)
2.    Draft text of agreement between APCAM and MDRE, with text creating the
agency, APFA, and its intemal procedures (1995)
3.    Mali Rural Development Action Plan, 1993
4.    Mali agroprocessing sector study, White cover, June 1993
5.    Reports on preparation workshops: Bamako (1993) Sikasso (1993) and Segou
(1994)
6.    Export Development of Horticultural Products in Mali - Preliminary final report,
1994
7.    Working documents, Studies on:
- Market studies: Malian products in Cote d'Ivoire and Senegal-1995
- Production and exports of mangoes and green beans, and credit in Mali- 1994
- Hides and Skins Subsector, 1994
- Regulation of transports of agricultural products in Mali, 1994
- Exotic products in Mali (sesame, arabic gum ..... ), 1994
- Rural credit availability in Sikasso region, 1994
- Infrastructures for fruits and vegetables exports in Bamako, 1994
- Impact of investments code on agroprocessing promotion, 1994
- Trade regulation and agricultural products
- Fish and fisheries subsector in Mali, 1994






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26802
MAU                                          !
AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING                                                                                                                < ,-
PROMOTION PILOT PROJECT                                                                                                                                          A
PROJET D'APPUI A LA VALORISATIONETA E                                                                                                     7 
LA COMMERCIALISATOIN DES PRODUITS                                        !
L AREAS COVERED BY REGIONAL UNrTS
! REGION COUVER'ES PAR UNITES REGjONALES
REGKONAL CENTERSSAAANAAREN
CENTRES REGIC*NAUX DERECHERCHE              SANARAN/SAr-ARIENNE
A   EXPERIMENT STATIONS                         SUB-SAHARAN/SUB-SAF(ARIENNE                                                                                                                .
STAT1ONS DE RECHERCHE                       SAHELIAN/SAHIEUENNE
SU5STATIONS                               J SUOANIAN/SOUOANIENNE                                                                           - - .       _                d'
SCUS sTAnIoNS                               GUINEAN/GUINEENNE            l*lic
Paved Roads                   .         R r a i o r r Cpii-ls- |                                                       -\
Routes Reverues                             Chek-ieu-de-Region
Paved Roads Under ConstTuchon               Region Boundaries    l                                                                - -_  --                                      - j
Routes Revetues en Construction             Lmite de Region
,_____  Railroad                              *     National Capilal
Clerriin de Fer                             Copitale D'Etat
Navigable Rivers (July-Oecember)           lsohyets in Millimeters
Riviere Navigable (juiilet-decembrel       Isohyetes en Mi/limetres
F/od Areas                          _  -   International Boundaries
Zone D'lnondotion                           Frontieres lntemtionrales                                    __Jouooi
Damr ond Reservowr\                                                                    \i    
B  arrcage et Reservoirj\-*\--Go 
,<. ,> ~~M   A  U  R I T A  N  I A.j i-_\.- 
o~~~~~~~~ -                     %-   -   -  ' " -  -   - _ . S   - - - -      
K.9-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
LU                                                                                                                        Ffw  Jr a \ < ~N IG E R
A, v-   U,\~ '                                                          R K I NS AI 's\
-,                ~~~~~ ~~0 50  150  200   250  200
GUINEA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTiSALGERIAl."
G   u  I N   E A                                                                                                                                                                         L          NIGSR
'. > ^ y)>  ) r- rX ,                           j                            GHANA  | T OGOGO                     2                 --
7                                                     I                                 / ~~~~~~~~~~-2~~~~~-~~~  ,. C~~GAN  URKINA
FASO -
* o o-            o t 9-n - j COTE D IVOIRE          L                                 .                                                A                     z EN-E-









IMAGING-CATALOGUERS
Report No:      14268 MLI
Type: SAR



