Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2737 MLI
                       Development Credit Agreement
       (Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion Pilot Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated August 9, 1995
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2737 MLI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF MALI
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Page  2
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
          otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
          account of expenditures in the territories of any
          country which is not a member of the Association or for
          goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
          territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
          such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
    (a)   "CFA Franc" means the currency of the Borrower;
    (b)   "APCAM" means Assemblee Permanente des Chambres
d'Agriculture du Mali established pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No. 93-044 of August 4, 1993, and Decree No. 93-295 of
August 18, 1993;
    (c)   "APROFA" means Agence de Promotion des Filieres
Agricoles to be established by APCAM;
    (d)   "Convention" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and APROFA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
including the Manuel de Procedures, and all annexes, schedules
and other attachments to the Convention;
    (e)   "AGETIPE" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux
d'Interet Public pour l'Emploi du Mali established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
    (f)   "AMELEF" means the Association Malienne des
Exportateurs de Legumes et Fruits established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower;
    (g)   "MPCP" means Mutuelle des Professionnels des Cuirs et
Peaux established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
    (h)   "CRA" means the Chambre Regionale d'Agriculture
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
    (i)   "MDRE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Rural
Development and Environment;
    (j)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan dated
April 28, 1995, describing procedures and timetable for
coordination and implementation of the Project;
    (k)   "Subsector Enterprises" means all agricultural
processing and marketing enterprises operating within the
Borrower's territory;
    (l)   "APEP" means Association de Promotion de l'Entreprise
Privee established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
Page  3
    (m)   "IER" means the Borrower's Institut d'Economie Rurale;
    (n)   "PNVA" means the Borrower's Projet National de
Vulgarisation Agricole;
    (o)   "CMDT" means Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement
des Textiles established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
    (p)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 5, 1995 and
April 11, 1995, between the Borrower and the Association; and
    (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain, or cause APROFA to open and maintain, in CFA
Francs, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
Page  4
this Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August
15 commencing August 15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall:
          (i)   cause APROFA to carry out the Project with due
                diligence and efficiency, in conformity with
                appropriate financial, administrative, envi-
Page  5
                ronmental, and agricultural practices, and in
                accordance with the Convention;
          (ii)  take, or cause to be taken, all action, including
                the provision of funds, facilities, services and
                other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                enable APROFA to carry out the Project; and
         (iii)  refrain from taking or permitting to be
                taken any action which would prevent or
                interfere with the carrying out of the
                Project by APROFA.
    Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of
the Credit available to APROFA under an agreement (Convention)
to be entered into between the Borrower and APROFA under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall include the terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention in such a manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Convention or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause APROFA to carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.05. (a) Not later than December 31, 1997, the
Borrower shall carry out, jointly with APROFA and the
Association, a midterm review of the execution of the Project
which shall cover, inter alia: (i) the management and the
operations of APROFA, (ii) the performance by APROFA of its
obligations under the Convention, (iii) the impact of the
Project activities on the environment, and (iv) the expansion
of the project activities to the establishment of a regional
support unit in Mopti, and to the support of a third
professional association.
    (b)   Not later than one month prior to said midterm review,
the Borrower shall cause APROFA to furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, and
draft action plan containing proposals for remedying any
identified deficiencies in the implementation of the Project.
    (c)   Promptly after said midterm review, the Borrower shall
cause APROFA to: (i) prepare an action plan, satisfactory to
the Association, based on the recommendations stemming from the
aforementioned review; and (ii) adopt and thereafter implement
said action plan with due diligence and efficiency.
    Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by APROFA.
Page  6
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause APROFA to:
          (i)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later
                than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
                such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
                between the Borrower and the Association, a plan,
                of such scope and in such detail as the
                Association shall reasonably request, for the
                continued achievement of the objectives of the
                Project;
          (ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
                to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan;
                and
         (iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due
                diligence and efficiency and in accordance
                with appropriate practices, taking into
                account the Association's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause APROFA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of APROFA.
    (b)   The Borrower shall cause APROFA to:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                and expenses and related statements) and the
                records and accounts for the Special Account for
                each six months audited, in accordance with
                appropriate auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than four months after
                the end of the period referred to in sub-
                paragraph (i) above, (A) certified copies of its
                financial statements for such year as so audited,
                and (B) the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Association shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning such records,
                accounts, financial statements and the
                audit thereof as the Association shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause APROFA to:
          (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
Page  7
         (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   as a result of events which shall have occurred after
the date of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that APROFA will be able to perform
its obligations under the Convention;
    (b)   the text establishing APROFA shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of APROFA to perform any
of its obligations under the Convention;
    (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of APROFA or for the suspension of its
operations;
    (d)   the Borrower or APROFA shall have failed to perform any
of their obligation under the Convention; and
    (e)   the Convention shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the implementation of the Project or the performance
of APROFA of its obligations under the Convention;
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   APROFA has been established with organization,
functions and mandate acceptable to the Association;
    (b)   the Convention has been duly signed by the Borrower and
APROFA;
    (c)   the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of
this Agreement have been hired under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association;
Page  8
    (d)   an accounting system, acceptable to the Association,
has been established for the implementation of the Project; and
    (e)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that APROFA has entered
into the cooperation arrangements, acceptable to the
Association, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Commerce of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
             et du Commerce
          Bamako
          Mali
                                         Telex:
                                           2559
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF MALI
                       By /s/ Siragatou Ibrahim Cisse
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                       By /s/ Andrew Rogerson
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                       Credit Allocated                % of
                        (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Civil Works            300,000              90%
(2) Vehicles and           300,000              100% of foreign
    Equipment                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory costs)
                                                and 90% for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(3) Consultants'         1,300,000              100%
    Services
(4) Training and           150,000              100%
    Research
(5) Operating            1,300,000              100%
    Costs
(6) Refunding of           200,000              Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated            350,000
                         _________
        TOTAL            3,900,000
                         =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which the goods and services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
    (c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental Project
related costs incurred by APROFA on account of vehicle
operations, communications (phone, fax, mail), office supplies
acquisition, rent and utilities payment, staff salaries and per
Page  10
diem provisions, and travel needs.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods, works and services under contracts
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to improve technical and
managerial capacities of producers, traders, exporters and
agro-processing entrepreneurs with a view to inducing sustained
growth in the Borrower's agricultural trading and processing
subsector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Decentralized Support to agricultural trading and
          processing Subsector in the regions of Sikasso, Segou
          and Mopti:
1.  Provision of promotional, technical and informational
assistance to agricultural trading and processing activities,
through the conduct of studies, the provision of training and
the acquisition of equipment and materials, in the areas of:
(a) applied research and demonstrations, and extension services
on post-harvest, marketing and agro-processing technologies;
and (b) organization of fairs, competitions, seminars, and
professional workshops.
2.  Collection and dissemination of technical, economic,
financial and legal information on: (a) agricultural
production, post-harvest, marketing and agroprocessing
technologies, and (b) local and international markets for
agricultural products.
3.  Construction and rehabilitation of wholesale market and
storage facilities.
4.  Setting-up of lease, use and cost recovery arrangements for
wholesale market facilities.
5.  Provision of individualized on-demand technical assistance
to agricultural trading and processing enterprises for: (a) the
selection of appropriate production, post-harvest, product
processing technologies and/or marketing techniques; (b)  the
preparation of feasibility studies and financing requests; (c)
the establishment and operation of business enterprises; and
(d) the establishment and operation of accounting and
management systems and procedures.
6.  Strengthening of the Regional Chambers of Agriculture,
through the provision of equipment, and technical managerial
and consulting services, to enhance their capacity to: (a)
provide assistance to subsector enterprises at the regional
level, and (b) facilitate relations between Subsector
Enterprises and the banking and financial institutions within
the territory of the Borrower.
Part B:   Support to Agricultural Trading and Processing
          Subsector Professional Associations
Page  11
1.  Institutional strengthening of professional associations,
through training of staff, implementation of research programs,
and provision of technical advisory services, to enhance their
capacity to: (a) establish and maintain relations with
importers of agricultural products in other countries; (b)
negotiate multi-year contracts with agricultural producers; (c)
take part in: (i) the establishment and monitoring of quality
standards, and (ii) the preparation of promotion strategies for
the subsector; (d) carry out advocacy activities for the
promotion of agricultural processing and marketing activities;
(e) develop their cooperation with similar associations in
neighboring countries; and (f) set up lease, use and cost
recovery arrangements for collective shipping, handling and
storage facilities.
2.  Construction and rehabilitation of collective facilities
required for the handling and storage of fresh and processed
agricultural products.
Part C:   Information Exchange Network
    Establishment and operation, in cooperation with the
Regional Chambers of Agriculture, of an agricultural processing
and marketing exchange network, including: (a) carrying out of
market studies and consumer surveys; (b) preparing an inventory
of institutions, consultants, and other resource persons with
experience in the marketing and processing of agricultural
products; and (c) development of a data base with easily
accessible information on post-harvest technologies and
marketing techniques, and up-to-date market information and
studies.
Part D:   Access to Credit
    Development of cooperation between agricultural processing
and marketing enterprises, and banking and financial sector
institutions, through: (a) the organization of workshops on
agricultural processing and marketing with the participation of
banks and financial institutions; and (b) training and study
tours on agricultural processing for banking and financial
sector staff.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
    Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower and to be procured under contracts
Page  12
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  National Competitive Bidding
    (a)   Goods estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $460,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
    (b)   Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.  National Shopping
    Vehicles estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and
equipment estimated to cost $40,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for
the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment
Page  13
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  MRDE will be responsible for the overall coordination of the
implementation of the Project. For this purpose, MRDE will
establish and maintain a Consultative Committee which shall be
chaired by the Minister of Rural Development and Environment
and shall comprise representatives from: (a) all departments
and agencies involved in the implementation of the Project, and
(b) agricultural trading and processing subsector professional
associations.
2.   APROFA, which shall be established by APCAM, will be
responsible for the implementation of the Project. To carry out
its responsibilities under the Project, APROFA shall establish:
(a) a coordinating unit, located in Bamako, which shall be
responsible for the overall management and coordination of
Project activities; and (b) three regional units, located in
Sikasso, Segou, and Mopti, which shall be in charge of Project
activities at the regional level; provided, however, that the
Mopti regional support unit shall be established only after the
midterm review referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement.
3.  The Borrower shall cause APROFA to enter into cooperation
arrangements, acceptable to the Association, with: (a) IER, for
the implementation of priority agro-processing and post-harvest
research programs; (b) CMDT and DRA-Sikasso, for the provision
of extension services in the Sikasso region; and (c) PNVA, for
the provision of extension services in the Segou and Mopti
regions.
4.  The Borrower shall cause APROFA to coordinate its activities
with existing specialized agencies, programs, and projects
providing support to private sector enterprises within the
territory of the Borrower, including APEP.
5.  The Borrower shall cause APROFA to implement partial cost
recovery mechanisms described in the Manuel de Procedures,
acceptable to the Association, for the provision of all support
services to be provided under the Project to Subsector
Enterprises.
6.  The Borrower shall cause APROFA to employ specialized
private sector operators, such as AGETIPE, in accordance with
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for the preparation
of technical specifications, the evaluation of bids and the
supervision of works to carried out under the Project.
7.  The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, subject to
such modifications as may be agreed upon between the Borrower,
APROFA, and the Association from time to time.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                 Terms of the Convention Required Pursuant
                              to Section 3.02
    The Convention shall include the following:
Page  14
1.  The obligation of the Borrower to make available the
proceeds of the Credit for the implementation of the Project,
on a non-reimbursable basis to APROFA;
2.  The obligation of APROFA to:
          (a)   carry out the Project in accordance with the
                Convention and the Project Implementation Plan
                referred to in Section 3.03. of this Agreement,
                with due diligence and efficiency and in
                accordance with appropriate administrative,
                financial, agricultural, commercial and
                environmental practices acceptable to the
                Borrower and the Association;
          (b)   comply with the record keeping, auditing and
                reporting requirements set out in Article IV of
                this Agreement;
          (c)   maintain for the duration of the Project, the
                accounting system referred to in Section 6.01 (d)
                of this Agreement;
          (d)   comply with the procedures for procurement of
                goods, works and consultants' services set out in
                Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
          (e)   carry on its operations and conduct its affairs
                in accordance with sound administrative,
                financial, agricultural, environmental, and
                commercial practices under the supervision of
                qualified and experienced management assisted by
                competent staff in adequate numbers;
          (f)   keep its positions of Director General and
                Financial Director filled, at all times, by
                persons having experience and qualifications
                acceptable to the Association;
          (g)   promptly inform the Borrower and the Association
                of any condition which interferes, or threatens
                to interfere, with the progress of the Project,
                the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
                or the performance of APROFA of its obligations
                under the Association;
          (h)   furnish to the Borrower and to the Association,
                each semester, an activities report and a
                financial report, of such scope and in such
                detail as the Borrower and the Association shall
                reasonably request;
          (i)   at the request of the Association, exchange views
                with the Association with regard to the progress
                of the Project and APROFA's performance of its
                obligations under the Convention;
          (j)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
                or make other provisions satisfactory to the
                Association for insurance against such risks and
                in such amounts as shall be consistent with
                appropriate practice;
          (k)   carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
                9.03, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
                Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
                and services, plans and schedules, records, and
                reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
                respectively) in respect of the Project;
          (l)   in accordance with Section 3.05 of this
Page  15
                Agreement, participate in the midterm review, and
                thereafter, prepare, adopt and implement the
                action plan referred to said Section; and
          (m)   in accordance with Section 3.05 (b) of this
                Agreement, prepare and furnish to the
                Association, for its comments, the action plan
                referred to in Section 3.05 (b), and thereafter,
                implement said action plan taking into account
                the Association's comments thereon; and
          (n)   not later than September 30 of each year, submit
                to the Association for approval its annual work
                program and budget for the following year.
3.  A provision stipulating that in case of conflict between the
Convention and this Agreement, the latter shall apply.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF
125,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory toit that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
Page  16
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
Page  17
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
