                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 25884

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (PPFI-P9210; IDA-27370; TF-23053)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.0 MILLION

                              TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                       MALI

                                      FOR AN

               AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROMOTION

                                 PILOT PROJECT




                                   June 30, 2003




Rural Development 2
Country Department 15
Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective January 2003)

                            Currency Unit = CFAF
                                CFAF 100 = US$ 0.16
                                 US$ 1.00 = 620.78

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMELEF  Association Malienne des Exportateurs de Légumes et Fruits (Malian
        Association for the Development of Fruit and Vegetable Exporters)
APCAM   Assemblée Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali (Permanent
        Assembly of Chambers of Commerce of Mali)
APROFA  Agence pour la Promotion des Filières Agricoles (Apex organization of
        Agro-business Associations)
BNDA    Banque Nationale de Développement Agricole (Rural Development Bank)
CECI    Centre canadien d'Études et de Coopération internationale (Canadian
        Non-Governement Organization)
CFAF    CFA francs (Francs CFA)
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
CMDT    Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des fibres Textiles
        (Malian Company for the Development of Textile Fibers)
CRA     Chambre Régionale d'Agriculture (Regional Chamber of Agriculture)
MDRE    Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
MPCP    Mutuelle des Professionels des Cuirs et Peaux (Hide and Skin Exporters)
MTR     Mid-term Review

                            Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                         Country Director:    A. David Craig
                          Sector Manager:     Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
                           Task Manager:      Yeyande Kasse Sangho

                                                 MALI
                AGRICULTURAL TRADING AND PROCESSING PROMOTION
                                           PILOT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
    6. Sustainability                                                                11
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
    9. Partner Comments                                                              14
    10. Additional Information                                                       14
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
    Annex 8: Mid-term Review Aide-Memoire                                            27
    Annex 9: Borrower's Contribution                                                 33
Map IBRD No. 27217

Project ID: P001755                                                      Project Name: Agricultural Trading and Process
                                                                         Promotion Pilot Project
Team Leader: Yeyande Sangho                                              TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Agricultural Trading and Process Promotion Pilot L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9210; IDA-27370;
                            Project                                                                  TF-23053
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (94%); Central government
                            administration (4%); General finance sector (2%)
                  Theme: Technology diffusion (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (P); Export development and competitiveness (S);
                            Social risk reduction (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    08/30/1991                                        Effective: 04/30/1996              04/30/1996
   Appraisal:    11/07/1994                                            MTR: 08/01/1998                09/03/1998
    Approval:    06/01/1995                                         Closing: 03/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALI/PAVCOPA
                      Other Partners:      CECI, CIDA, JAPAN Trust Fund

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Randolph Harris
Team Leader at ICR:             Yeyande Kasse Sangho                           Chantal Dejou
ICR Primary Author:             Stanislav Manikowski
                                (consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background

This five-year pilot project was identified in 1991, at a time when Mali was experiencing a severe economic
and political crisis characterized by steadily declining GDP growth, a large fiscal deficit and declining
world cotton prices, all of which resulted in a regime change that year. The new Government felt at the time
that a public-private partnership approach to economic and social development could be very productive.
Since public-private partnerships were a new concept in Mali, and the private sector had long been
somewhat reluctant to work with the Government, it was urgent that a pilot project be launched quickly in
order to deliver immediate gains, win over hesitant supporters, and produce lessons that could then be used
in the design of any growth-promoting stand-alone project to emerge from the Country Assistance Strategy.

The Government explicitly requested that this pilot project address key sectoral constraints to private
investment in agricultural processing and marketing, and that it focus primarily on capacity-building and on
knowledge transfer to the private sector through information networks, training, specialized technical
assistance, and study tours.

The Bank accepted the Government's request since the project's development objectives were consistent
with both the CAS and the Government's policy focus. Those objectives included: (a) improving the
enabling environment needed to enhance private sector business opportunities and encourage State
disengagement from commercial activities; (b) improving technical support to producers through effective
research and extension aimed at enhancing and diversifying production and improving the international
competitiveness of Malian exports, (c) boosting private investment in agricultural trading and processing.

Moreover, the historic currency devaluation decision made in January 1994 by Governments of the CFAF
zone (to which Mali belongs) provided greater scope for improving the competitiveness of agricultural and
agro-processed products, since there was strong demand on European markets for many Malian
agricultural products such as mangoes, green beans, sweet peas and hides and skins.

Original objectives

In order to achieve sustained growth in agricultural trading and processing, the project needed to: (i) help
agribusiness, traders, exporters and producers adapt their products to consumer preferences, improve
product quality, increase the timeliness of product delivery, and reduce production and marketing costs; and
(ii) improve the capacity of professional organizations to select, manage and finance support services to the
private sector. Thus, the project's development objectives were to:

1.      enhance the technical and managerial skills of private entrepreneurs in the agricultural trading and
        processing sub-sector;
2.      demonstrate the feasibility of alternative export channels (such as maritime shipment for mangoes)
        and expand the use of low-cost processing and storage technologies;
3.      help entrepreneurs identify and access new markets for their products;
4.      facilitate the development of business relations between private agricultural trading/processing
        enterprises and formal and informal financial institutions;
5.      help the Chambers of Agriculture and professional associations increase their capacity to deliver
        demand-driven support services to private entrepreneurs.




                                                      - 2 -

The project's main risks were: (a) its principal reliance upon Chambers of Agriculture and professional
organizations, which are still weak and inexperienced; (b) poor management and misuse by the Project
Implementation Agency of its autonomy in project implementation; and (c) abandonment by Government of
its policy of support to the private sector. These risks constituted another set of reasons for the project's
pilot format.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives were not modified, and the evaluator's understanding is that the project's
implementation objectives (i.e., capacity development of rural sector agents, rural institutional development
and the introduction of storage alternatives) focused more on capacity-building in the rural private sector
than on the expansion of agricultural exports.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components:

1.       The "Decentralized Support in the Sikasso, Ségou and Mopti Regions" Component (Base cost:
US$ 2,500,000 ): Through training and demonstrations of alternative techniques, this component was
intended to help producers, processing industries and merchants improve the quality of their products and
increase exports. The project was to concentrate on the key products of each region: potatoes, mangoes,
dried fruit and maize in Sikasso; onions, tomatoes and rice in Ségou; and mangoes, green beans, potatoes,
hides and skins in the Mopti district. The component's activities were organized into six clusters: (i)
promotional and technical assistance; (ii) training and information services; (iii) construction and
rehabilitation of wholesale market facilities; (iv) leasing and cost recovery arrangements for wholesale
market facilities; (v) personalized, on-demand technical assistance to entrepreneurs; and (vi) institutional
strengthening of the Regional Chambers of Agriculture.

2.       The "Support Packages to Sub-sectoral Professional Associations" Component (Base cost: US$
1,438,000): The "Support Packages" component was designed to support three export associations dealing
with high-value products on a competitive market: AMELEF (fruit and vegetable exports); MPCP (hide
and skin exports); and an association in the sweet pea and oilseed sub-sector.

3.       The "Agency Management and Agricultural Processing and Marketing Information Exchange
Network" Component (Base cost: US$ 1,084,000): This component was introduced to finance the
establishment of the APROFA agency headquarters in Bamako, to organize market studies and to create a
data bank.

4.       The "Access to Credit" Component (Base cost: US$ 93,000): The "Access to Credit" component
was intended to bridge the gap between agricultural processing/marketing enterprises and the financial
institutions by: (i) organizing workshops and meetings between entrepreneurs and banks and financial
institutions; and (ii) organizing training and study tours on agricultural processing for banking and
financial sector staff. Workshops, training modules and study tours were supposed to cover the key
mango, green bean and hide/skin sub-sectors, among others.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project predates the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) process, and therefore did not
benefit from a Quality Enhancement Review (QER), nor was it subject to a Quality at Entry Assessment



                                                       - 3 -

(QEA). Nonetheless, the quality at entry, judging ex-post, is rated satisfactory on the strength of: (i) the
consistency of project objectives with the development priorities for the rural and private sectors; (ii) the
successful experience and lessons learned from the testing phase in Sikasso; and (iii) the project's design,
which allowed for institutional constraints and risks by incorporating flexibility and by fostering ownership.
The SAR documented the project and its background particularly well and accurately assessed project
risks.

In retrospect, however, some important shortcomings emerge, including the lack of a formal set of
agreed-upon performance indicators (which were not a Bank requirement at the time of project preparation)
and the inadequate institutional interface between the Ministry of Rural Development and APCAM, which
caused dysfunctions in monitoring the implementing agency's management. Potential trade-offs between
objectives were not explicitly identified. In addition, given that the public-private partnership was a
relatively new implementation arrangement, there was too much reliance on a small number of private
sector actors and associations, which took the project hostage and wanted to monopolize it for their own
benefit. These design flaws became apparent at the mid-term review. Since then, the project has been
opened up to other interested partners.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

This section describes the overall outcome of the project, as well as the outcomes of each of the five
components. These are then compared to the SAR requirements and amendments introduced subsequent to
the MTR and the Sélingué meeting. The outcomes are analyzed in terms of their quality, relevance and
impact on the beneficiaries and on the country as a whole.

As a pilot project supporting private agribusiness, the PAVCOPA achieved satisfactory results. The
project provided technical assistance to agribusiness associations and enterprises and improved the
knowledge and skills of entrepreneurs. Although aimed at long-term improvement of agricultural
products, the project succeeded mainly in: (a) improving the capacities of rural sector actors; (b)
developing rural institutions; (c) demonstrating and testing alternative methods of storing, conserving and
exporting agricultural products.

The main results, arranged according to the SAR's Key Performance Indicators (Table 3, Part II, Table 8a)
were as follows:

Component 1. The project established two regional branches, and provided promotional and technical
assistance to producers, traders and exporters by organizing marketing campaigns and agricultural fairs. It
delivered on-demand, tailor-made support through diagnostic and feasibility studies and negotiations with
financing institutions, equipped the Regional Chamber of Agriculture and trained its staff.
Component 2. The project established quality standards and market databases. It organized training
sessions and financed participation in trade fairs.
Component 3. The project organized studies in Mali and in foreign markets; established and updated a
roster of resource persons and institutions with expertise in the agro-processing sector; and established and
maintained a database containing information on technologies, prices and relevant agro-processing
documents.
Component 4. Contrary to what was set out in the SAR, the project did not organize formal training
sessions and study tours for the financial institutions. Instead, it organized more than one hundred
negotiation sessions between private enterprises and the small number of financial institutions in the project



                                                      - 4 -

area. These negotiations gave bankers an opportunity to familiarize themselves with the specific
characteristics of local agribusinesses.

The project helped design and implement financial schemes that opened up alternative financing
opportunities for producer groups (e.g., the importation of potato seeds) and got micro-credit institutions
involved in agribusiness activities (e.g., KafoJiginew).

The success in achieving many project objectives has had numerous positive impacts on beneficiaries:

1.       Private agribusiness entrepreneurs have started to form professional associations (more than 61
         associations have been created or strengthened). The associations' members have been trained in
         co-operative management, marketing and agribusiness techniques. The project introduced
         production and marketing standards for mangoes and potatoes and abolished monopolies in
         agricultural input marketing.
2.       The project successfully demonstrated the feasibility of alternative export methods, particularly for
         mangoes (e.g., rail or sea transport instead of air freight.). Most beneficiaries adopted new and
         improved, yet affordable, storage and processing facilities.
3.       Merchants were assisted in identifying and penetrating new markets, such as Ivory Coast (for
         potatoes) and the Netherlands (for mangoes).
4.       The project catalyzed new partnerships between private entrepreneurs and financial institutions, the
         magnitude of which can be gauged by its support to entrepreneurs' proposals submitted for
         financing (of 154 projects submitted, 40 were financed for about US$380,000).
5.       The Chambers of Agriculture and the five most dynamic associations were provided with office
         supplies and equipped with computers. The project created three "business centers" which became
         the focal points for the associations and their clients.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Decentralized Support in the Sikasso, Ségou and Mopti Regions
Overall, this component was satisfactory (S) in realizing its objectives and strengthening rural
institutions.

The fairs and marketing campaigns were the project's major success. They allowed participants and
visitors to get to know each other, to compare their product quality and to arrange contracts. The
beneficiaries informed the evaluation mission that these fairs were the first opportunity they had had to
meet their clients face-to-face and that these events often resulted in lasting commercial relationships. The
fairs were particularly useful for hide and skin producers, since their products had been little known to their
clients up to that point. Training and information exchange were another success: the project organized
weekly price and market surveys and, since 2001, has regularly publicized the results.

The project's most outstanding achievement was its negotiation, with financial institutions, of credit access
for 40 private businesses. Three of them now have permanent credit lines ranging from US$220,000 to
US$720,000 equivalent. The project's support to Sikasso's three mango-exporting firms (SAEFEL-Mali,
AOM and TEM) helped them demonstrate the profitability of mango export by sea and demonstrated to
Malian exporters the advantage of working in partnership with Ivory Coast firms, which have a better
command of export technology and can more easily access the port facilities at Abidjan. The project also
supported sweet pea exports through training, organizational support and bank credit facilitation for
producers. This support produced a substantial increase in sweet pea exports in 1999 and 2000. The
project invested extensively in supporting potato exports through the SAEFEL and Mali Yiriden firms.



                                                      - 5 -

Thanks to this support, exports have increased.

The project strengthened the Chambers of Agriculture in the three regions, exceeding its objectives. This
support (in the form of equipment, training and study tours) enabled the CRA to become operational. It
now has the capacity to launch commercial activities in the regions, to mobilize farmers, processors and
merchants, and to inform and train them. The CRA informed the ICR mission that, thanks to the project, it
had finally started to implement its program. In practice, all the scheduled activities were executed
according to plan. The beneficiaries found the training sessions useful. The project assisted entrepreneurs,
as required by the SAR. The objectives assigned to the project under the sub-sector "Institutional
Strengthening of the Regional Chambers of Agriculture", were also achieved.

The project failed to achieve its objectives in terms of market identification campaigns, nor did it finance
construction and rehabilitation of wholesale market facilities (since, after a preliminary study, project
management found these facilities not cost effective, their management difficult and sustainability dubious).
As a result, it did not conclude financing arrangements for recovering the costs of the construction and
operation of this market. Thus, the beneficiaries still have no access to wholesale level storage facilities,
and in particular to air-conditioned storage. It should be noted, however, that encouraging results in terms
of storage and conservation were obtained through support for the construction, in the villages, of improved
traditional storage facilities ("cases de conservation") for onions and potatoes.
Under this component, beneficiaries identified the following weaknesses: (i) the success of the fairs could
have been even greater had the project undertaken all the market identification campaigns planned and if
they had been better organized; (ii) the training could have been more effective had the project compiled the
training modules into a manual, made them widely available to the beneficiaries, updated the documents,
and created a trainers' network; (iii) the success of this sub-component could have been greater had the
project invested more in creating links between the private sector and the financial institutions (see
Component 4).

Component 2: Support Packages to Professional Associations in the Sub-sector

The project's support to the sub-sector's professional associations was satisfactory (S).

One of the project's greatest achievements was the creation of favorable conditions for the establishment of
producers' associations. Another was its initiative to introduce appropriate storage facilities ("cases de
conservation") built using traditional materials. As a result, the marketing period for onions and potatoes
was extended, post-harvest losses reduced and producers' revenues increased. The training provided helped
the associations' members to assess production costs. The project also familiarized farmers with newly
introduced standards, thereby stimulating them to improve their product quality. Support to potato growers
in Sikasso (mainly through access to a permanent credit line of CFAF 500 million) helped them to increase
their output from 36,000 tons in 1995 to 43,000 tons in 2002. Farmers in the Ségou region receiving
project support (mainly in the form of capacity-building and storage facilities) helped boost the volume of
onions marketed from 27,000 tons in 1996 to 76,000 tons in 2001, and the quantity of tomatoes from 2,300
tons in 1996 to 7,300 tons in 2000.

The project helped strengthen the existing merchants' and exporters' associations. Thanks to this support,
exporters introduced innovations in storage, packaging and transportation methods for mangoes,
maintained their presence on the Spanish market for sweet peas, while increasing potato exports.
Project-supported activities were responsible for reducing the transit time from Sikasso to Amsterdam from
22 days to 11. Thanks to the project, official mango exports from Sikasso over the 1995-2002 period
totaled 8,440 tons, valued at nearly three million dollars. Support to potato exporters enabled exports of


                                                       - 6 -

that crop to increase from 844 tons in 1995 to 3,200 tons in 2002. Sweet pea exports progressed as well,
from 844 tons in 1997 to 3,200 tons in 1999, reaching a peak in 1999 and 2000, when yearly exports
exceeded US$ 1.1 million. In addition, the project financed market studies and organized marketing tests on
local and foreign markets on behalf of the processing associations and exporters of potatoes, sweet peas
and onions.

The support for processors' associations assisted 515 members (exclusively women) from 33 processing
units in the Sikasso region, exceeding the target set. Between 1995 and 1998, funding from CECI, a
Canadian NGO, was used to train women involved in processing activities and to provide them with
convenient packaging materials. In several localities, the project demonstrated gas drying and sun drying
facilities. The project facilitated the creation of 18 women's product processing associations, of the 31 that
had been planned, and helped two of them acquire product drying facilities. It also helped them improve
the quality of processed products.

This component displayed certain weaknesses, however, including: (i) a drop in sweet pea exports after
2000. The number of export firms first fell from four in 1999 to one in 2000, and exports then declined to
almost nil in 2002. This failure was attributable to the low and uneven quality of local products and to
insufficient knowledge of the Spanish market; (ii) the failure to mobilize members to improve the
associations' structure, so that they could fully exploit the advantages of working together towards a
common goal. Moreover, the associations are still small, and often no larger than a family unit. They
therefore lack professional management, produce little and have no access to credit. The associations'
members have found the project's "product showcases" to be an excellent way of promoting their
products, however.

Component 3: Agency Management and the Agricultural Processing and Marketing Information
Exchange Network.

Despite the fact that its objectives were achieved, this component is rated unsatisfactory (U), since the
project did not ensure the transfer of accumulated information to the beneficiaries, and beneficiaries
were not involved in the design and execution of project activities.

The project's Executing Agency, APROFA, recruited the staff required and purchased the equipment
needed to run the project. The documents stored in the database were used by both project staff and
consultants. During its life, the project has employed about 100 consultants. The agro-processing
technology directory was also a useful tool, and Malian entrepreneurs now use three-quarters of the 75
processing technologies listed. The showcases are used by the female processing entrepreneurs to display
their products. The "cyber cafés" (paid for by users) are frequented by 80-100 persons each day in
Bamako and by about 10 people per day in the other regions.

After a few months, the agency began to show several deficiencies, such as an excessive concentration of
decision-making power within management, too little beneficiary participation in identifying needs and
priorities, and excessive delays in processing financing requests. As a result, the Government dismissed the
team in 2000, in consultation with IDA, and recruited another in early 2001. The new team initially
appeared to be more dynamic, but began after a few months to show weaknesses similar to those of the first
team.

The following weaknesses were identified by beneficiaries: (i) comprehensive documentation is not yet
accessible to potential users since the website is not operational; (ii) many market studies, and especially
the most recent ones, were not distributed to the client and the Agricultural Processing and Marketing


                                                       - 7 -

Information Exchange Network; (iii) the package describing all the hardware and information currently
available under the project was not transferred to the beneficiaries either in Bamako or in the regions; (iv)
the monitoring and evaluation unit of the project became operational two months before its end. However,
the regional branch offices in Sikasso and Ségou monitored their activities and submitted monthly reports
that served as a basis for the project's various annual reports and provided data for completion reports
produced by the Government and the Bank; (v) the Executing Agency has been working in isolation. In
practice, it did not collaborate with other closely-related projects and agencies such as PROCELOS,
USAID, APEX, ON, IER, PRMC, PACCEM and CAE, thus failing to take advantage of existing
programs and to achieve a multiplier effect through joint ventures with other projects. Among these other
initiatives: (i) PROCELOS has the objective of promoting small processing enterprises dealing with local
cereals (e.g., millet, sorghum, maize, rice, etc.), as well as the consumption of those products; (ii) CAE, a
USAID initiative, has goals essentially the same as those of PAVCOPA; (iii) APEX, another USAID
initiative, promotes the livestock/meat production stream; (iv) the PRMC restructured and liberalized the
Malian cereals market; (v) ON, with the help of Mali's main donors, is the contracting authority for
irrigation investments in the area (with about 70,000 ha developed) for rice and vegetable crops; (vi) IER is
the main contracting authority for basic research in Mali and is assuming a pioneering role in development
research.

Component 4: Access to Credit

Activities under the "Access to Credit" component were executed indirectly through other
components. Thus, the project satisfied the SAR requirement for improved credit access for small
agribusinesses.

Activities included under this component were executed indirectly as the first component, and particularly
its "tailor-made on-demand technical assistance to entrepreneurs" sub-component, was being carried out.
The project arranged numerous meetings between entrepreneurs and financing institutions. Of 154
beneficiary requests supported by the project and negotiated for financing, 40 resulted in credit for
entrepreneurs.

The project successfully assisted entrepreneurs in their quest for investment money for agribusiness, as
described under Component 1. In particular, it helped sweet pea and potato exporters to obtain credit from
the BNDA. There are few financial institutions and banks in the project zones, and all of them were
contacted by the project management team in its quest for credit for the submitted proposals. There was
therefore no need to organize similar meetings just to satisfy the program component. However, the
exercise demonstrated the difficulties encountered by individual rural private actors in accessing credit,
and highlighted key constraints in Mali's financial sector. This suggests that there is a particular need for
projects that focus on obtaining funding for rural entrepreneurs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Since the project was a pilot operation, the SAR did not specify economic and financial performance
targets. Because the project's impact on producers was not systematically evaluated, APROFA does not
possess data that could help in computing financial and economic performance.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was designed to enhance the ability of professional entrepreneurs' organizations and the



                                                       - 8 -

Chambers of Agriculture to select, manage and finance support services to the private sector.

To this end, and in accordance with the SAR work program, the project financed managerial and technical
training for small entrepreneurs and supported them in their efforts to organize themselves into
associations. More than 60 such associations were created or strengthened through the project. The
agribusiness entrepreneurs' associations, although numerous, are not yet fully operational: they lack
business plans and financial resources. Motivated by the association movement launched by the project,
Mali's agribusiness entrepreneurs decided in May 2001 to create an apex association called "Association
APROFA" (which is unrelated to the project's Executing Agency also called APROFA). The Association
currently represents 88 individual entrepreneurs and 18 co-operatives and has over 2,000 members. It has
its own budget of about US$ 7,000 (CFAF 5 million) and in 2003 plans to implement a development
program for its members for about US$ 230,000 (CFAF 161 million). Since its creation, the Association
APROFA has participated in PAVCOPA supervision missions. The Chambers of Agriculture, equipped
by the project and with trained members, can now train and mobilize private entrepreneurs, help the
associations, and organize such events as fairs and agricultural expositions.

Project impact on agricultural policy. Mali's agricultural policy is geared to four objectives: (a) State
withdrawal from market activities in favor of the private sector; (b) creation of rural organizations and
training of their members to take a leading role in identifying and implementing rural development plans;
(c) administrative decentralization and improvement of agricultural support services; and (d) modernization
of Mali's agriculture. The project contributed to all four objectives. It contributed to State withdrawal
from marketing by supporting and training merchants and exporters, and it stimulated the creation of new
farmer's associations and strengthened existing ones. It also promoted the private market for inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and seeds, and supported the introduction of new production, conservation and
processing technologies, thus contributing to the modernization of agriculture. The extent of these impacts
is unknown.

As far as reinforcement of additional capacities, the project's objective was to enhance the capacities of
private associations and entrepreneurs in the agribusiness sub-sector. Of about US$ 6.9 million, 36 percent
of the project budget was earmarked for training, technical assistance and institutional strengthening of
regional Chambers of Commerce, 29 percent for institutional strengthening of professional associations,
and 15 percent for Executing Agency management and the Agricultural Processing and Marketing
Information Exchange Network. All of these activities are expected to have a mostly long-term effect.
However, some data can be used to illustrate the performance of project-supported production streams (see
table below). These statistics cover only exports through formal channels; parallel market exports are not
included. There has been a significant increase in exports of all five product lines, with the exception of
sweet pea, which has recently lost ground .



Project-supported Marketing or Exports ( tons)

                95/96          96/97       97/98        98/99        99/00       00/01          01/02
Mango
Sikasso         703            1,054         265        1,194          118       3,900          1,206
Potato
Sikasso         844            1,500       1,300        3,970        2,980       3,100          3,200
Sweet Pea
Sikasso          1.1              1.2         0.2          2.3         2.2         0.9            0.2
Onion


                                                      - 9 -

(Ségou)          27               38           59           66          81          79             n.a.
Tomato
(Ségou)         2.5             6.6            2.2         3.0          7.3         n.a.           n.a.
_____________________
n.a.: Data not available.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although agricultural production depends largely on climatic conditions and input availability, exports are
closely related to the international economic environment. Rainfall in Mali's southwestern regions has been
lower than expected over the past three years. In the Sikasso region, the CMDT withdrew from input
marketing, thereby restricting farmers' access to fertilizer and pesticides, and reducing rural production.
The instability in Ivory Coast during the second half of 2002 impaired, and still impairs, Mali's exports to
that country and to other markets, via Abidjan. To overcome this obstacle, the project began to explore new
modes of exporting, namely via rail to Dakar and via the port of Accra. All these factors disrupted potential
agribusiness production and marketing, although in the end they should be viewed as a part of doing
business in this milieu.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project execution was entrusted by Government to an Assembly of the Chambers of Agriculture --
APCAM -- created in 1993. As outlined in the SAR, APCAM in turn set up an agency known as
APROFA for the promotion, processing and marketing of agricultural produce, which became the project's
Executing Agency. Newly created, run by inexperienced although technically competent staff, APROFA
encountered numerous difficulties. Finally, in 1999, the project was placed under the interim management
of an advisor to the Minister of Rural Development, and APROFA's staff was dismissed. The new
management team that took over in 2001 was no more successful in executing the project. Both failures
may be attributed to the lack of effective institutional guidance to APROFA. Although created by
APCAM, APROFA was not answerable to that organization, nor was it controlled by the Ministry of
Agriculture, which was responsible for project supervision. The situation was never rectified and, in
practice, APROFA was not accountable to the Government, which entrusted it with public money, to
APCAM, or even to the project's beneficiaries. The Government's inability to clarify the project's
relationship to the supervising entity and to its beneficiaries was one of the project's three most glaring
defects. The other two are covered in the next section.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project was never able to render its monitoring and evaluation unit operational; the regional branch
offices conducted monthly monitoring of their activities. The statistics made available to the ICR mission
were prepared ex post, on the basis of data provided by these branches, by an M & E officer hired two
months before the project's completion. There is no reliable quantitative information on the impact of
project activities on the beneficiaries, and the absence of monitoring is in contradiction with the SAR's
provision for "close monitoring of management performance, intensive technical supervision, and regular
evaluation of the beneficiaries' response". It should be noted, however, that the SAR did not specify who
was to be responsible for such monitoring. The project has also suffered from weaknesses in its
management.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs, financed by an IDA credit, Government and beneficiary contributions and grants from
donors, were estimated at US$ 6.9 million. The project was implemented between April 30, 1996 and



                                                     - 10 -

December 31, 2002, with an 18-month extension of the project closing date. By the end of the project, US$
5.077 million (97%) had been disbursed from the IDA credit, while national counterpart funds had
contributed CFAF 168 million. The Canadian NGO CECI contributed US$ 0.09 million (90%) instead of
the US$ 0.1 originally planned, CIDA (Canada) contributed US$ 0.3 million and the Japanese government
US$ 0.1 million. The contributions from CIDA and Japan were not originally included in project costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the PAVCOPA project will probably vary depending on the category of
beneficiary. The increasing professionalism of producers, processors and traders and their
involvement in the associative movement will probably have lasting effects, since it has increased
their revenues and helped them to become operational within Mali's administrative and legal
environment. It has fostered a strong desire on their part to do away with the monopolies and
traditional privileges that exist in the private sector. Demonstrations of improved agricultural
practices, better storage facilities and technologies, and new processing methods will surely incite
beneficiaries to better themselves. Project-supported experience gained by exporters will also help
them in future negotiations. The management of the associations' apex institution -- Association
APROFA -- is still dynamic and enjoys the strong support of its members. Its actions bode well
for the policy of State disengagement from market activities and for private sector promotion.
The sustainability of the vitality that the project injected into the Chambers of Agriculture cannot
yet be assessed.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As far as many producers, processors, merchants and exporters in the Sikasso, Ségou and Bamako districts
are concerned, the project helped improve their understanding of their respective businesses and increased
their productivity and revenues. The Government should continue the project experience and extend similar
assistance to other regions of Mali. The next step in agribusiness assistance should be implemented as soon
as possible, so as to avoid discontinuity. To this end, the project's executing agency has already prepared,
in collaboration with the Government, a concept paper for a Competitiveness and Diversification Program
that emphasizes the integrated development of promising production streams, capacity-building for actors,
the establishment of a market information network and the provision of collective commercial
infrastructures.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The World Bank financed and provided the technical backstop for the project formulation team. The
preparation of the SAR was preceded by the testing of some project activities with the participation of a
significant number of future stakeholders. The Bank approved the procedures manual and, during project
execution, examined and approved requests for the hiring of consultants, for investments and for purchases.
Budget replenishments occurred within two to three weeks of the submission of properly formulated
requests. As indicated earlier, however, it would have been useful to design at the start coherentt
performance indicators and to clarify the institutional interface between the Government and APCAM.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank dispatched eleven supervision missions. During the last three years of project implementation,
supervision missions consisted of four to ten experts, and back-to-office reports were detailed and precise.



                                                    - 11 -

In August 1998, the project was evaluated by an MTR. During the supervisions, the Bank identified the
project's problems and informed the Government accordingly. Unfortunately, the Bank's supervision
missions had limited impact on the project's three main weaknesses: i.e., its lack of accountability to the
Government and beneficiaries, its inadequate financial management and its failure to monitor and evaluate
progress. In this instance, the Bank should have followed up more forcefully on supervision
recommendations that were not implemented.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of the above, the Bank's overall performance is rated marginally satisfactory. The Bank recognized
implementation errors by the executing agency and took responsibility for addressing the shortcomings. As
a result, the project staff was replaced in 2001 and a new implementation plan prepared and launched at a
workshop in Sélingué. That workshop produced, within a coherent operational plan, a logframe for the
project that was intended to make up for the absence of such a document at the time of project appraisal.
The Bank also dealt firmly with deficiencies noted in financial management in December 2002 by writing
two successive letters to the Minister of Finance requesting corrective action. However, the Bank was slow
to take action to correct monitoring and evaluation deficiencies, and to suggest the organizational and
institutional reforms needed to spur project activities.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government participated actively in project preparation by monitoring the studies and the
implementation test in Sikasso, but it was seriously remiss in refusing to delegate full responsibility to
APCAM for overall project monitoring/evaluation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government delegated project management to APROFA, an agency created by APCAM, a federated
body of the Regional Chambers of Agriculture, for the specific purpose of implementing the PAVCOPA
project. Thus, the Government made a pioneering decision to entrust management of a World Bank project
to the private sector. Government participated in all project supervision missions and contributed CFAF
168 million to project financing, as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.

According to the SAR, however, the Government, through its Ministry of Rural Development and
Environment (now the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries), was to exercise overall
supervision of the project. It should therefore have created, as an advisory body, a consultative committee
comprised of representatives of Government agencies and beneficiaries. This advisory body never became
operational and the Government did not respond adequately to the Agency's weaknesses.

It should be noted, nevertheless, that due to inadequate project management on the part of the Agency's
team in 1999, the Government placed the project under the interim management of an adviser to the
Minister of Rural Development in 2000, and replaced the Agency's staff in 2001. This measure
temporarily improved the quality of technical implementation, although project accountability to
beneficiaries and Government, and the issue of project monitoring, remained unresolved. By the end of the
project, in 2002, the project's financial and technical management had also deteriorated without any
remedial action being taken by Government. The resolution emerging from the Sélingué workshop (held in
January 2001), namely, that control over project management should be returned to the Association
APROFA since it represents project beneficiaries, was not implemented by the Government. The project's
institutional sustainability is therefore compromised.

7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                     - 12 -

The Implementing Agency, APROFA, achieved most targets of the project components. APROFA
performed poorly, however, in managing project finances and did not fully evaluate the impact of its
activities. APROFA engaged in undocumented spending, overspent, and has yet to make arrangements for
the 2002 audit. It never developed analytic accounting and it is therefore not known how the budget was
allocated to project activities. The change in management in 2001 did not resolve the problem of weak
financial management. Thus, the second of the three risks listed in the SAR -- "poor management and
misuse by the Agency of its autonomy in project implementation" -- seriously diminished the project's
anticipated outcomes. The agency put up strong resistance to a transfer of its monitoring/control
responsibilities to the Association APROFA, and in so doing it derailed the mechanism that ensures the
sustainability of the agency's activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory (U). Although there was consistent
commitment to the project despite high turnover of government personnel and project staff, several
recommendations from supervision missions were not implemented, and issues of monitoring and
evaluation, financial management and institutional arrangements, although clearly identified, were not
addressed effectively or in a timely manner.

8. Lessons Learned

 The project demonstrated the importance of beneficiary involvement in monitoring and evaluation. In
 particular, beneficiaries who contribute to project activities in cash or in kind should be involved in the
 planning and execution of those activities. Stakeholder participation and consensus-building are essential
 to a public-private partnership program. Stakeholders must be engaged early in the process, and then kept
 informed, in order to ensure sustainability and effective ownership.

 The difficulties experienced by the project's Executing Agency in launching a permanent and constructive
 dialogue with beneficiaries demonstrated the importance of carefully selecting project implementation
 staff. The staff dealing with the private sector should not only be technically competent but also
 business-oriented. Staff remuneration and career development should also be dependent on performance.

 Close monitoring of a project through an independent body is vital to its execution. The project's
 difficulties were caused by insufficient beneficiary involvement in the planning and execution of project
 activities, and by inadequate project monitoring, evaluation and supervision. In addition, one of the
 conditions stipulated in the project's SAR was the Executing Agency's full autonomy in project
 management. The SAR, in terms of private sector support, should therefore strike a balance between
 Executing Agency control and autonomy.

 The Bank's failure to react decisively to important recommendations from supervision missions
 (concerning M & E, institutional sustainability, etc.) that were not followed up by Government action led
 to dysfunctions within the project that compromised its results. The responsibility for this lies with both
 the Bank and the Government.

Lessons for the formulation of agribusiness projects

1. Project execution demonstrated the importance of an integrated approach to the development of product
lines (including hands-on technical assistance during pilot phases).

2. Analysis of the managerial performance of the agribusiness project financed by Government and



                                                     - 13 -

executed by a private agency generated the following lessons:
- An Executing Agency should be regularly evaluated and its benefits should be proportional to the
project's impact;
- A project's technical progress should be evaluated by an independent body;
- Beneficiaries should be considered as the project's clients and should influence the project's work
program and spending decisions; and
- The direct beneficiaries should co-sponsor project activities.

3. Credit availability is essential to agribusinesses. Malian entrepreneurs, and especially the small-scale
ones, have difficulty obtaining credit because they have no land and thus cannot provide sufficient
collateral. Project development in this field should include provisions for helping beneficiaries gain access
to funding.

4. Experience with joint ventures initiated under the project between Malian and Ivory Coast mango
exporters, via the port of Abidjan, shows that the venture is more profitable if:
- the national partner is professional and able to take over the business once the foreign partner withdraws;
- the experience is participatory in nature;
- cross-border and fiscal regulations are transparent and well understood; and
- potential markets are well explored and the results are assimilated.

Future Operations

As far as many producers, processors, merchants and exporters in the Sikasso, Ségou and Bamako districts
are concerned, the project helped improve their understanding of their respective businesses and increased
their productivity and revenues. The Government plans to continue the project and scale it up, extending
similar assistance to other regions of Mali under a new program of agricultural diversification. The
concept paper for this program emphasizes: (i) information and development (vertical and integrated
promotion of promising production streams; market information; promotion of appropriate and innovative
technologies for private irrigation, conservation, and processing); (ii) enhancement of actors' capacities;
(iii). infrastructures and investment; and (iv) environment and social welfare protections. The next step in
agribusiness assistance should be implemented as soon as possible, so as to avoid discontinuity.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Refer to Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Table 3.1 Decentralized Support in the Sikasso and Ségou regions and the Bamako district:
Performance Indicators

                                                                     Objective                      Achievemen
Indicator                                                            initial1   adjusted2 achieved3 t

                                                                                                       (%)
(i) Promotional and technical assistance
Market identification campaigns (number)                                   0       41         11        27
Marketing campaign (number)                                                13      19         18        95
Beneficiary workshops (number)                                             26      66         48        73
Agro-processing technology promotion (number)                              24                            0

Research support (number)                                                  0       5          2         40
Market product demonstrations (number)                                     0                  5

Regional agricultural fairs (number)                                       13      19         23       121
Producer and processing competitions (number)                              0       12         1          8
Publishing in « Euro-fruit » journal (number)                              0                  1

Hectares of mango plantation inspected for quality (number)                0                 446

(ii) Training and information services
Weekly survey of prices and product availability (number)                  0      560        616       110
Price and market information broadcast (number)                            0      600        754       125
Quality standards information broadcasting (number)                        0                  87

Associations created or strengthened (number)                              0                  61

Training sessions (number)                                                 0       31         29        93
Trainees (number)                                                          0      340        352       103
Trained CMDT staff (number)                                                0      228        353       155
Storage facility constructors trained (number)                             0       34         32        94
Drying equipment craftsmen trained (number)                                0       0          21

(iii) Construction and rehabilitation of wholesale market facilities
Wholesale markets constructed (number)                                     3       3          0          0
(iv) Lease , use and cost recovery arrangements for wholesale market facilities
No indicators

(v) Individualized on-demand technical assistance to entrepreneurs
Diagnosis for small agro-processing firms (number)                        390                            0

Feasibility/financing studies (number)                                    150     210        182        87
Projects submitted for financing (number)                                  75     105        154       147
Projects financed (number)                                                 0       22         40       191
Envelope submitted for financing (FCFA million)                                             1 224

Envelope financed (FCFA million)                                                             265

(vi) Institutional strengthening of the Regional Chambers of Agriculture
Training sessions for OP and CRA (number)                                  26      26         26       100
CRA whose members were trained (number)                                    0       5          10       200
Workshops on market information (number)                                   13      21         5         23
Study tours organized (number)                                             0       13         8         61

                                                         - 15 -

CRA offices equipped with computers (number)                                   0           5            6           120
4x4 Vehicles provided (number)                                                 0           5            3            60
Fax provided (number)                                                          0           5            6           120
Sets of office furniture provided (number)                                     0           5            5           100


1. Objectives fixed by the SAR. 2. Objectives fixed after the MTR and the Sélibgué meeting. 3. Objectives achieved at
December 31 2002.



Table 3.2 Support packages to sub-sector professional associations: Performance indicators


                                                                                 Objective                  Achievement
                                                                     Initial     adjusted      achieved          (%)
Indicator
Institutional strengthening of professional associations
European market studies (number)                                                     3            2               67

Middle-east market studies (number)                                                  1            1              100

Marketing tests on local market (number)                                             9            6               67

Marketed products during test (tons)                                                             68

Marketing tests on foreign markets (number)                                         13            9               69

Marketed products during test (tons)                                               1 540        1 162             75

Importers identified (number)                                                                     7

Exporters operational (number)                                                                   21

Products lines with quality standards (number)                                                    5

Training sessions organized (number)                                                31           29               93

Trained persons (number)                                                           5 000        6 652            133

Processing units with trained members (number)                                      31           33              106

Trained members of processing units (number)                                       450           515             114

Construction and/or rehabilitation of collective facilities
Processing units created and equipped (number)                                      31           18               58

Gas-drying installations constructed (number)                                        3            3              100

Sun-drying installation constructed (number)                                                      6

Studies of existing collective facilities (number)                                  14            4               29

Handling and processing facilities rehabilitated (number)                            2            1               50

Storage and conservation facilities constructed (number)                            55           81              147




                                                             - 16 -

Table 3.3 Agency Management and the Agricultural Processing and Marketing Information
Exchange Network: Performance Indicators


                                                                         Objective         Achievement
                                                                 initial adjusted Achieved    (%)
Indicator
Market studies and consumer surveys
Mali market studies                                                                 21

Foreign market studies                                                               4

Information exchange forums                                                          3

Establishment and regular updates of a roster of consultants
Agro-processing consultants roster                                                   1

Establishment and maintenance of a data bank
Agro-processing technology directory                                                 1

APROFA Web Site                                                                      1

Cyber cafés                                                                          3

Product showcases                                                                    3

Documentation                                                                      2 172

Bi-monthly bulletins                                                       13        2         14




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Costs by Expenditure Category (US$ million equivalent)

   Expenditure Category         Appraisal Estimate          ICR/Latest Estimate         ICR Estimates
                                                                                      as % of Appraisal
Civil Works                             0.60                       0.03                       5
Vehicles and Equipment                  0.60                       0.60                     100
Consultant Services                     2.10                       1.72                      82
Training and Research                   0.37                       0.15                      41
Operating Costs                         3.00                       2.46                      82
PPF                                     0.25                       0.18                      72
Total                                   6.90                       5.14                      74




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB                  2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                               0.00              0.60            0.00            0.00          0.60
                                      (0.00)            (0.54)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.54)
2. Goods                               0.00              0.46            0.14            0.00          0.60
                                      (0.00)            (0.41)          (0.13)          (0.00)         (0.54)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00            2.10            0.00          2.10
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (2.10)          (0.00)         (2.10)
4. Training                            0.00              0.00            0.27            0.10          0.37
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.27)          (0.00)         (0.27)
5. Operating Costs                     0.00              0.00            2.30            0.80          3.10
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (2.30)          (0.00)         (2.30)
6. PPF Refinancing                     0.00              0.00            0.25            0.00          0.25
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.25)          (0.00)         (0.25)
    Total                              0.00              1.06            5.06            0.90          7.02
                                      (0.00)            (0.95)          (5.05)          (0.00)         (6.00)

(i) All costs calculated free of duties and direct/indirect taxes.
(ii) Figures in parentheses are the corresponding amounts to be financed by IDA.
(iii) NBF: Non-bank financed:
        (a) beneficiairies and CECI's contribution to operating costs and training = $0.3 m;
        (b) Government contribution to staff and other operating costs = $0.5 m (Chambers of
Agriculture, APCAM).




                                                     - 18 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
2. Goods                                0.19               0.22              0.19             0.00              0.60
                                       (0.18)             (0.20)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (0.55)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.72             0.00              1.72
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.72)            (0.00)           (1.72)
4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.15             0.00              0.15
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.15)
5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              2.46             0.00              2.46
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.46)            (0.00)           (2.46)
6. PPF Refinancing                      0.00               0.00              0.18             0.00              0.18
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (0.17)
   Total                                0.19               0.22              4.73             0.00              5.14
                                       (0.18)             (0.20)            (4.70)            (0.00)           (5.08)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

   NB. Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



Project costs by financiers (US$ million equivalent)

     Source of Funds             Appraisal Estimate           ICR/Latest Estimate             ICR Estimates
                                                                                           as % of Appraisal
IDA                                      6.00                         5.08                          85
Government and                           0.80                         0.06                          7.5
Beneficiaries
Canadian NGO (CECI)                      0.10                         N.A.                        N.A.
Total                                    6.90                         5.14                          74

N.A. Not available




                                                       - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project's objective was to enhance the capacities of private associations and entrepreneurs in
the agribusiness sub-sector. Since this was a pilot project, the SAR did not specify economic and
financial performance targets and, since the project's impact on producers was not systematically
evaluated, APROFA does not possess data that could help in computing financial and economic
performance. However, some data from the Sikasso region can be used to estimate performance
of the mango, potato and sweet pea production lines. This data only covers exports through
formal channels; parallel market exports are not included in these statistics.

The data shows that, overall, the three production lines remained unchanged during the project's
life. However, yields of mango and sweet pea began to decline radically as of 1999. This drop
was attributed in part to low rainfall, and in part to the decision of the CMDT (Malian Textile
Development Company) to withdraw from input marketing and agricultural extension. Potato
yields also started to dwindle for the same reasons. However, the project's support for training
and increased input availability reversed this trend as of 2001.

Potato exports rose steadily during the project's life. Mango exports fluctuated from year to year
depending on the mango exporters' capacity to compete with other mango-producing regions.
After reaching a peak two and three years ago, sweet pea exports, which were strongly supported
by the project, declined drastically due to the collapse of the Spanish market.

Available statistics show that producer prices for the three products increased in the year before
project implementation began, and then hovered at more or less the same level during the whole
of the project's life.


Table 1 . Exports by project supported merchants in Sikasso region
                                          Saison
                                          95/96  96/97    97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  2002
Mango
Production in 1000 tons                   27     30       20     35     204    123    83
Yield in tons par hectare                 30     25       15     23     9      5      4
Marketing in 1000 tons                    703    1 054    265    1 194  118    3 900  1 206
Percent exported                          3      3        1      0      0      3      1
Potato
Production in 1000 tons                   36     36       23     33     36     38     43
Yield in tons par hectare                 40     30       25     15     16     22     23
Marketing in 1000 tons                    844    1 500    1 300  3 970  2 980  3 100  3 200
Percent exported                          2      4        6      12     8      8      8
Sweet pea
Production in 1000 tons                   5,6    5,8      3,9    4,5    6,3    6,4    2,5
Yield in tons par hectare                 5,4    4,5      3,3    2,6    3,2    3,2    1,2
Marketing in 1000 tons                    1,1    1,2      0,2    2,3    2,2    0,9    0,2
Percent exported                          19     20       6      52     35     14     10

Source : Project Archives


Table 2. Producer prices in CFAF

                            Season
                            93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97    97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  2002
Mango                       90     100    65     90       80     115    115    100    90




                                                    - 20 -

Potato                      20 à 50 140 à 175 120    140      170    185    110    120    140
Sweet pea                   50      175       175    200      135    200    215    125    200



Source : Project reports


Table 3. Exports values in CFAF by the project supported merchants in the Sikasso region
                            Years
                            1995    1996      1997   1998     1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Mangos                      256     422       632    159      224    71            328    2 092

Potatoe                     21                                7             4

Sweet pea                   72      367       415    76       919    841    313    86     3 089

Source : Project reports




Table4. Production and exports by the project supported agro-business in Segou region
                                              Season
                                              95/96  96/97    97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  2002
Onion
Production in 1000 tons                       39     51       79     88     10     10

Yield in tons par hectare                     23     25       38     25     23     26

Marketing in 1000 tons                        27     38       59     66     81     76

Percent exported                              70     75       78     75     80     75

Tomato
Production in 1000 tons                       4.1    10.9     3.6    4.9    12.2

Yield in tons par hectare                     19     25       16     16     17

Marketing in 1000 tons                        2.5    6.6      2.2    3.0    7.3

Percent exported                              60     60       60     60     60


Source : Project reports




                                                        - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/20/1993                4    ECONOMIST , AG-SERVICES          S               S
                                             SP. CONSULTANTS (3)
              10/25/1993                1    ECONOMIST
              03/22/1994                1    ECONOMIST
              06/21/1994                1    ECONOMIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/15/1994                2    ECONOMIST,                       S               S
                                             AGRO-ECONOMIST
              03/05/1995                2    ECONOMIST,
                                             AGRO-ECONOMIST

 Supervision

              04/13/1996                1    AGRO-ECONOMIST LTC (1)           S               S
              11/17/1996                2    AGRO-ECONOMIST LTC (1);          S               S
                                             ECONOMIST, RES. MISSIO (1)
              06/21/1997                2    ECONOMIST/RES. MISSION           S               S
                                             (1); AGRO-ECONOMIST (1)
              03/03/1998                2    SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1);           S               S
                                             RURAL SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              10/25/1999                4    TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);          S               S
                                             RURAL CREDIT SPECIALIS
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1)
              02/11/2000                2    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S
                                             ANALYST (1)
              05/25/2000                6    TEAM LEADER (1); AG              S               S
                                             INTENSIFICATION SPE (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPECIAL
                                             (1); AG SERVICES
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              10/16/2000                4    TTL (1); IRRIGATION              U               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); AG
                                             ECONOMIST (1); AG
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST (1)
              10/16/2000                8    TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); AG          S               S
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                             (1); AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FMS (1)
              03/30/2002               11    OP OFFICER, CO-TTL (1); AG       S               S



                                              - 22 -

                                           ECONOMIST, CO-TTL (1); AG
                                           SERV. SPECIALIST (2);
                                           IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                           AGRONOMIST (1); E&S
                                           SAFEGUARDS SPEC. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FMS, CONSULTANT (1);
                                           TEAM ASSISTANT (1); M&E
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               11/16/2002            10    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           CO-TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                           SR. RURAL DEV. SPEC. (2);
                                           SR. AG. EXT. SPEC. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                           (1); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                           (1); AG MARKETING SPEC.
                                           (1)


 ICR
               03/28/2003             6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            SR. RURAL DEV. SPEC.
                                            (2);PROCUREMENT SP.
                                            (1);FMS (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            56.9                         117.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 45.1                         102.0
  Supervision                          124.4                         158.0
  ICR                                   12.5                           12.0
  Total                                238.9                         389.1




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Farmers' Organization and Mobilization
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Regional experience exchange




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Annual activities reports, APROFA, 1997 - 2002.

Study on APROFA restructuration and reorientation of PAVCOPA, GEOMAR, 2000.

Evaluation report on potato, mango and sweet pea since implementation of PAVCOPA in
Sikasso,
Rural Development Ministry, 1998

Report on project completion, PAVCOPA, 2003.

Achievement report for the PAVCOPA, Ministry of Food Security, April 2003.

Staff Appraisal Report : Agricultural Trading and Processing Promotion. Pilot Project, World
Bank, 1995

Aides-Mémoires of nine project supervision missions, World Bank, 1995 ­2002.

Project Mid-Term Review documents, World Bank, 1998.




                                              - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire


                                                   MALI

                                             PROJET-PILOTE

               D'APPUI À LA VALORISATION ET À LA COMMERCIALISATION

                               DES PRODUITS AGRICOLES (PAVCOPA)

                                              Crédit MLI-2737


                            Aide-mémoire de la mission de revue à mi-parcours

                                            (17/08/98 - 29/08/98)



        Une mission Banque Mondiale de supervision du projet PAVCOPA s'est rendue au Mali du 17 au
29 Août 1998. Cette mission a été réalisée par M. P. LABASTE, agro-économiste, responsable du projet à
la Banque Mondiale. Elle a été suivie par Mme G. YABRUDY, Représentante-résidente de la Banque
Mondiale au Mali.

        Cette mission avait pour but de procéder, avec le Ministère du Développement Rural et de l'Eau
(MDRE), l'Assemblée Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali (APCAM), et l'Agence pour la
Promotion des Filières Agricoles (APROFA), à la revue à mi-parcours du projet PAVCOPA. La réalisation
du projet est confiée à APROFA, agence à statut privé créée spécifiquement à cet effet et placée sous le
parrainage de l'APCAM.

        Une visite de terrain au niveau des antennes régionales APROFA de Ségou et de Sikasso a été
effectuée du 19 au 24 Août. A cette occasion, la mission a eu une série de contacts et de séances de travail
avec les principaux interlocuteurs et partenaires du projet: Chambres Régionales d'Agriculture, Directions
Régionales de l'Appui au Monde Rural (DRAMR), CRRA (recherche), producteurs, opérateurs privés,
etc..

        Une réunion du Comité Consultatif du PAVCOPA s'est tenue les 26 et 27 août 1998.

        La mission a travaillé avec le Directeur Général d'APROFA, M. Dominique TRAORÉ, et son
équipe, avec les représentants de l'APCAM, à laquelle est rattachée APROFA, en particulier M.
Abdramane BOUARE, Secrétaire Général-adjoint, qui a participé aux visites sur le terrain. Le MDRE était
représenté lors des réunions de la deuxième semaine par M. Amadou Moktar THIAM, de la Cellule de
Planification et de Statistiques.

        Les conclusions de la mission ont été discutées et validées au cours d'une réunion de travail tenue le
28 Août avec APROFA, l'APCAM et le MDRE. Elles ont ensuite été présentées à M. le Ministre du
Développement Rural et de l'Eau, en présence de Mme G. YABRUDY, Représentante-résidente de la
Banque Mondiale. Ces conclusions sont données à titre provisoire et devront éventuellement être confirmées
par la Banque Mondiale.

1. Rappel des objectifs du projet-pilote

Le projet PAVCOPA a démarré en mai 1996. Son objectif principal est de contribuer à la levée des
contraintes principales à l'investissement privé dans le domaine de la valorisation et la transformation des



                                                    - 27 -

produits agricoles. Ceci à travers le renforcement des capacités des intervenants (opérateurs, commerçants,
producteurs), par la formation et l'information, et en facilitant les transferts de technologie. Ces actions
s'inscrivent dans la ligne des objectifs généraux du gouvernement dans le secteur agricole : accroissement et
diversification de la valeur ajoutée du secteur, transfert de responsabilités aux organisations
professionnelles et développement du secteur privé, promotion des filières de production agricoles. Elles
doivent se traduire en final par une augmentation des exportations agricoles non traditionnelles et par une
substitution aux importations agro-alimentaires.

Ce projet a été conçu comme une opération pilote devant permettre de tester différentes formes
d'intervention en faveur de la promotion des filières agricoles. Il était prévu qu'à l'occasion de la revue à
mi-parcours un premier bilan soit fait et que des orientations plus précises soient données pour la suite du
projet.

2. Situation budgétaire

Le tableau de suivi budgétaire du PAVCOPA au 30/06/98 est donné en annexe (Annexe 1).

Environ $2 millions ont été utilisés à fin juin 1998, ce qui représente environ 37% du crédit. Ce
pourcentage est relativement faible. Ceci est du principalement à la non utilisation de certaines rubriques
budgétaires (infrastructures de commercialisation) ou à la sous-utilisation de certaines autres (consultants,
et, dans une moindre mesure, formation et recherche).

Par contre, les coûts de fonctionnement du projet représentent à cette date 52% de l'enveloppe budgétaire
prévue.

3. Résumé des résultats significatifs obtenus par PAVCOPA sur la période 1996-1998

Une évaluation détaillée des résultats du PAVCOPA a été faite préalablement à la revue par un cabinet de
consultants (CICEC). Ce document a servi de support pour la revue à mi-parcours.

Il faut d'abord signaler, comme l'ont souligné les consultants, qu'il est difficile de mesurer l'impact réel
d'APROFA sur les filières compte tenu de l'absence d'objectifs quantitatifs (productions, valeur ajoutée,
volumes exportés, etc..) et d'indicateurs de réalisation dans la conception initiale du projet. En conséquence,
APROFA a eu jusqu'à présent tendance à raisonner en termes d'indicateurs d'activité plutôt que
d'indicateurs de performances.

Ceci étant dit, il semble que l'on puisse créditer PAVCOPA des principaux résultats effectifs qui suivent :

·        PAVCOPA a contribué à améliorer la commercialisation de l'échalote par les maraîchers de la
région de Ségou (zone Office du Niger) : allongement de la durée de commercialisation, accroissement des
quantités produites (38 000 tonnes en 95/96, 73 000 tonnes en 97/98) et de leur valeur (5,8 milliards de
FCFA en 95/96, 11,0 milliards en 97/98), maintien des prix au producteur, diffusion de cases de stockage
au niveau villageois .
·        PAVCOPA a été à l'origine de la mise en place de financements bancaires pour l'importation de
semences de pomme de terre par les producteurs de la région de Sikasso, importations qui étaient
compromises à la suite de la dévaluation du FCFA en 1994 en raison du renchérissement du prix des
intrants importés.
·        PAVCOPA a introduit la notion de tri et de conditionnement des mangues destinées à l'exportation
dans la région de Sikasso, ainsi que le passage à l'expédition par voie maritime en conteneurs réfrigérés
Maintenant considéré par les professionnels comme la voie d'avenir pour relancer les exportations fruitières
du Mali..
·        le projet a développé l'accès au crédit bancaire pour un certain nombre d'opérateurs: fonds de
roulement pour les exportations de mangue, crédit de campagne pour le pois sucré, crédit d'investissement


                                                      - 28 -

pour l'installation de stations de conditionnement de fruits. Même si le dénouement de ces crédits s'est
souvent avéré difficile compte tenu des faibles capacités de suivi des banques.
·        PAVCOPA a enfin mené un certain nombre d'autres activités : formation, appuis CRA/APCAM,
appui à la petite transformation alimentaire, organisation de foires agricoles, etc...

Le constat de base est donc (1) qu'il est nécessaire et important de tirer les enseignements de l'expérience
acquise au cours des deux premières années et de remédier aux faiblesses et insuffisances constatées, et (2)
que le gouvernement malien et les bénéficiaires des interventions doivent pouvoir obtenir d'APROFA, dans
les deux années à venir, davantage de résultats concrets au niveau du développement des filières
sélectionnées. Pour cela, il convient de mettre en oeuvre dans les meilleurs délais un plan d'action dont les
orientations et principaux éléments sont décrits ci-dessous.


4. Détermination des orientations futures à donner au projet

La mission a pu disposer d'un document d'analyse et de propositions intitulé "Rapport sur les propositions
d'orientations pour le plan d'action d'APROFA", préparé par un consultant international, spécialiste de
l'agri-business, M. Daniele GIOVANUCCI.

Plutôt que sur les priorités elles-mêmes, ce document met l'accent sur un certain nombre de critères d'ordre
méthodologique qui devraient guider les choix d'orientation à donner à APROFA et leurs implications. Les
principaux éléments qui en ressortent ont résumés ci-dessous :

·        importance de la définition de priorités : APROFA ne peut pas tout faire et le faire bien. La
promotion de filières agricoles concerne à la limite toutes les productions agricoles et tout le territoire du
Mali. La phase pilote du projet a montré que la poursuite d'un tel objectif ne serait pas réaliste et conduirait
à un saupoudrage des moyens. Des choix sont donc nécessaires au niveau des filières et du type d'activités
à mener.
·        critères de définition des priorités et orientations : ces priorités doivent être déterminées à partir des
besoins exprimés par les bénéficiaires et leurs organisations, conformément à l'approche participative
retenue, tout en étant solidement justifiées sur le plan économique. Les critères à prendre en compte sont
essentiellement : les bénéfices attendus par filière (détermination des filières "porteuses", actualisation
périodique des études économiques relatives à ces filières Sous forme de diagnostics sectoriels ou
sous-sectoriels, comme celui présenté dans le rapport du consultant (diagnostic du secteur de
l'agri-business au Mali).), les capacités d'APROFA à fournir des services efficaces et à lever certaines des
contraintes identifiées, la nécessité de choisir quelques "métiers" ou activités sur lesquels l'agence a acquis
des compétences et dispose d'avantages comparatifs par rapport à d'autres structures, la nécessité de
capitaliser l'expérience déjà acquise.
·        la prise de références (bench-marking) est un outil important permettant de tirer les enseignements
d'expériences similaires menées dans d'autres pays, où des agences de promotion des filières ou des
exportations agricoles ont été créées avec succès. Des exemples ont été cités : Côte d'Ivoire, Sénégal,
Maroc, Ouganda, etc..
·        le management de l'agence doit être adapté, dans un sens plus commercial, en fonction des
nouvelles orientations retenues.
·        le principe du recouvrement, au moins partiel, des coûts encourus, condition de la viabilité à long
terme de l'agence, doit être maintenu et progressivement appliqué.


5. Principaux éléments du plan d'action devant résulter de la revue à mi-parcours

5.1. En termes d'objectifs et d'activités :

·        APROFA doit établir des priorités d'action extrêmement claires, cibler davantage ses


                                                       - 29 -

interventions et ne pas vouloir tout faire. Le caractère pilote du projet et les 2 premières années
d'expérience permettent de définir ces priorités, comme recommandé par les différents consultants.
·       En particulier, APROFA doit recentrer ses activités sur l'aval des filières et sur la recherche de
débouchés pour les produits agricoles, conformément aux besoins exprimés sur le terrain par de
nombreux bénéficiaires et organisations. Les interventions en amont, à l'exception de quelques actions
ponctuelles ou promotionnelles, doivent être laisssées aux structures chargées de l'appui aux producteurs
(CMDT, ON, DRAMR, ORS), avec lesquelles APROFA a déjà des accords de collaboration.
·       APROFA doit concentrer ses efforts et les consacrer prioritairement à approfondir et consolider
les activités menées dans les quelques filières où elle est intervenue et a déjà investi : échalote, tomate et ail
à Ségou, mangue, pomme de terre et pois sucré à Sikasso, cuirs et peaux à Bamako.
·       APROFA doit donner la priorité au développement des débouchés et du marché local, améliorer
sa connaissance de celui-ci et assurer la diffusion de ces informations. L'appui aux exportations demande
des compétences spécifiques qu'APROFA n'a pas forcément aujourd'hui. Ce type d'intervention doit donc
être limité et à la demande.
·       APROFA doit faire réaliser des études prospectives et de faisabilité pour mieux cerner les besoins
en infrastructures et installations de conditionnement et stockage pour les marchés de gros de Ségou et
Sikasso Ce volet fait partie des composantes du PAVCOPA depuis l'origine, mais n'a pas été mis en oeuvre
jusqu'à présent..
·       APROFA doit améliorer le fonctionnement du réseau d'échanges et de ses bases de données pour
mettre à disposition de ses clients sur une base régulière des informations de qualité sur les prix et les
marchés. Ceci en liaison avec les autres initiatives similaires au Mali (projet USAID de système
d'information sur les marchés -SIM- logé à l'APCAM, projet USAID/Chemonics, etc...).
·       Pour le volet crédit, APROFA doit faire des propositions aux banques et institutions de
financement pour collaborer au montage et au suivi des dossiers de crédit aux opérateurs du secteur, y
compris de manière contractuelle et moyennant rémunération.
·       APROFA doit permettre à un ou plusieurs des groupements formés à la transformation de fruits
(pressage, séchage) de passer à un stade semi-industriel et d'acquérir leur autonomie en tant que PME, pour
autant que des financements adaptés puissent être obtenus.


5.2. Au niveau du management de l'agence et de ses procédures d'intervention :

·       APROFA doit pouvoir travailler à la demande avec des opérateurs individuels ou des
groupements d'intêret économique(G.I.E.) et pas seulement avec des organisations professionnelles
prédéterminées. Ces interventions doivent être décidées sur la base de critères de sélection transparents et
préétablis. L'objectif demeure néanmoins d'aider à la création et au renforcement d'organisations
professionnelles.
·       APROFA doit communiquer davantage avec les autres bailleurs de fonds nationaux et
internationaux, les ONG, les universités intervenant dans l'agri-business au Mali (USAID, AFD, Aide
canadienne, MSU, PROPARCO, IFC, etc..) et établir des programmes de collaboration, de manière à faire
jouer les synergies et complémentarités possibles et essayer de mobiliser des financements additionnels
pour les filières sur lesquelles elle intervient (montage d'un fonds de garantie pour les emprunts, etc..).
·       APROFA doit constituer un réseau de contacts internationaux, faire intervenir des consultants
expérimentés et effectuer des missions d'étude à l'étranger de manière à bénéficier du résultat d'expériences
réussies dans d'autres pays (prise de références ou "bench-marking") en matière de valorisation et
commercialisation des produits agricoles (Côte d'Ivoire, Ouganda, Sénégal, Maroc, Costa Rica)
·       APROFA doit adopter une orientation plus commerciale et un style de management de type privé,
guidé par la qualité des services fournis, l'obtention de résultats et la satisfaction des usagers/clients. Ceci
est une condition de la facturation de certaines prestations et de l'auto-financement au moins partiel des



                                                      - 30 -

frais de fonctionnement de l'agence. Cette orientation doit se traduire au niveau des profils des personnels à
recruter/promouvoir à l'avenir, dans la délégation de responsabilités aux antennes (accompagnée de la
fixation d'objectifs), par une réflexion sur la mise en place d'un système d'intéressement du personnel aux
résultats de l'agence, etc..
·        APROFA doit examiner la possibilité de demander aux associations professionnelles avec
lesquelles elle travaille de préparer des plans d'action annuels ou contrats d'objectifs sur lesquels la
collaboration avec APROFA pourrait être davantage formalisée (cadre d'obligations mutuelles : fixation
d'objectifs et d'indicateurs quantifiables, appuis contre participation financière, obligation de fournir
certaines informations, etc..)
·        APROFA doit revoir et améliorer ses procédures de fonctionnement pour répondre plus rapidement
et plus efficacement aux demandes exprimées par les opérateurs privés ou par les associations
professionnelles Le "modèle"de l'AGETIPE avait été pris comme référence au moment de la conception du
projet. Les procédures d'APROFA devraient être revues pour permettre à l'agence de fonctionner avec la
même efficacité que celle reconnue à AGETIPE.. La Banque Mondiale s'efforcera de son côté de réduire au
minimum les délais d'obtention des accords de non-objection.
·        en fonction des orientations ainsi définies pour la suite du projet, APROFA doit élaborer le cadre
logique correspondant, comprenant notamment les objectifs prioritaires et des indicateurs de performance
quantifiables et objectivement vérifiables. Une version provisoire de ce cadre logique est donnée en annexe
(Annexe 2). APROFA a souhaité le finaliser en fonction du plan d'action qui doit être élaboré d'ici fin
septembre.
·        APROFA doit mettre en place un système de suivi-évaluation Le responsable du suivi-évaluation
a été remplacé avant la revue à mi-parcours. permettant de mesurer la réalisation des objectifs définis dans
le cadre logique. Elle se dotera pour cela des moyens complémentaires éventuellement nécessaires
(enquêtes), tout en recourant autant que possible aux sources d'information existantes (DNAE, DNSI) ou
mises en place au niveau d'autres projets (SIM, FAO).
·        le MDRE, l'APCAM et l'IDA doivent revoir et amender si nécessaire les différents documents
régissant l'activité d'APROFA pour lui permettre d'effectuer les adaptations ci-dessus.

Quelques commentaires méritent en outre d'être faits :

·        en ce qui concerne les filières prioritaires, la mission est d'avis d'être très sélectif et de s'en tenir
aux quelques filières qu'APROFA a déjà sélectionnées (oignon, tomate, ail sur Ségou, pomme de terre,
mangue et pois sucré sur Sikasso, cuirs et peaux sur Bamako) et d'être extrêmement prudent dans
l'élargissement des activités à d'autres produits (karité, sésame, oseille de Guinée, poisson).
·        de même en ce qui concerne les "métiers" ou domaines d'activité d'APROFA, il convient de dégager
quelques priorités : production et diffusion d'informations sur les débouchés des produits et les prix,
transfert de technologie, facilitation de l'accès au crédit, soutien au développement du marché local et
interventions à la demande seulement pour l'exportation.
·        en ce qui concerne l'ouverture de l'antenne APROFA de Mopti, théoriquement prévue après la
revue à mi-parcours, la mission recommande que, dans une première étape, APROFA rassemble les
informations disponibles et réalise une analyse économique sur la situation et les potentialités de la filière
poisson dans la région de Mopti (statistiques sur la production et les flux, recensement des intervenants,
résultats obtenus par les opérations menées dans le passé notamment par l'opération pêche Mopti,
problématique du sous-secteur, comptes de la filière, comptes d'exploitation des producteurs, axes
d'intervention et justification économique en termes d'impact attendu, etc...). Cette étude, dont APROFA
pourrait rapidement soumettre les termes de référence à l'IDA, serait réalisée d'ici à la fin de l'année, ce qui
permettrait de prendre la décision d'ouverture de l'antenne de Mopti sur base d'une analyse solide et
d'objectifs précis, de nature à justifier un tel investissement.
·        APROFA devrait davantage jouer un rôle d'interface entre d'une part les opérateurs économiques
et les acteurs des filières et d'autre part le gouvernement sur un certain nombre de dossiers importants :


                                                        - 31 -

infrastructures, cadre incitatif, fiscalité, financement, intégration sous-régionale (UEMOA).
La plupart des orientations dégagées et les principaux éléments du plan d'action à préparer par APROFA
ont été discutés et ont fait l'objet d'un large consensus au cours de la réunion du 28/08.

Il appartient maintenant à APROFA d'élaborer à partir de là un plan d'action détaillé pour la période
1999/2000.


6. Prochaines étapes et calendrier

·        Suivant l'accord de crédit IDA, APROFA dispose d'un délai d'un mois après la revue à
mi-parcours pour présenter le plan d'action visant à la mise en oeuvre des orientations définies lors de la
revue. Ce plan d'action doit donc être disponible pour le 30 septembre prochain au plus tard. Il sera
soumis à la Banque pour avis.
·        Si ce calendrier est respecté, le plan d'action sera approuvé à temps pour être pris en compte dans
la programmation d'activités et les budgets du PAVCOPA pour 1999.
·        Au plus tard d'ici le 31/03/99, le MDRE et APROFA feront effectuer par un consultant
indépendant un diagnostic détaillé sur la mise en oeuvre effective du plan d'action.

7. Divers

La mission a rencontré les consultants de la société américaine Chemonics qui est chargée de l'exécution du
projet USAID de promotion de l'agri-business au Mali. Le budget de ce projet est de $16 millions sur 5
ans. Il comporte la présence de plusieurs consultants étrangers, dont certains pour des missions de longue
durée. L'équipe actuellement au Mali est responsable de la préparation du plan d'exécution du projet et des
programmes de travail. Ces documents doivent être achevés fin septembre, date à laquelle un atelier sera
organisé.

Ce projet, qui recoupe en grande partie les objectifs assignés à APROFA, est pour l'agence une opportunité
à saisir pour faire valoir son expérience, se positionner comme partenaire, démultiplier les moyens
consacrés à son domaine d'activité et faire jouer des complémentarités, en particulier au niveau du choix
des filières APROFA pouvant convenir de laisser à Chemonics certaines filières sur lesquelles PAVCOPA
est peu ou pas intervenu et où par conséquent elle ne dispose pas d'un réel avantage comparatif : filière
viande, filière céréales, PME de tranformation alimentaire, etc.... Les consultants l'équipe Chemonics ont
déclaré être tout-à-fait favorables à une coopération avec APROFA. Le calendrier de préparation de leur
programme de travail coïncide avec celui du plan d'action du PAVCOPA pour les 2 années à venir (fin
septembre/début octobre). Il conviendrait donc d'en profiter pour définir la collaboration possible sur les
programmes de travail respectifs.

D'autres possibilités de collaboration existent et devraient être également explorées et concrétisées,
notamment avec l'APEP/PASP (dont le responsable vient de changer), la SFI, le groupe de réflexion sur le
secteur financier, etc..




                                                      - 32 -

    Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution

                   SYNTHESE DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU GOUVERNEMENT
                                    PROJET D'APPUI A LA VALORISATION ET
                        A LA COMMERCIALISATION DES PRODUITS AGRICOLES

    I. APERÇU GENERAL DU PROJET

A) Dates du projet :
    Entrée en vigueur : 9 août 1995 - Clôture officielle : 31 mars 2001, prorogée au 31 décembre 2002.

B) Financement :
-   Crédit IDA N°2737 ML : 6,0 millions de dollars US
-   Gouvernement du Mali et bénéficiaires : 0,8 millions de dollars US
-   CECI-ONG Canada: 0,1 million de dollars US.

C) Objectifs du PAVCOPA
-   Induire une croissance soutenue de la production du sous-secteur, de la commercialisation et de la
transformation des produits agricoles par un accroissement des exportations vers les marchés européens et
régionaux et par le remplacement des importations sur le marché local,
-   Contribuer à une augmentation des revenus (surtout des femmes des zones rurales) et à la réduction de la
pauvreté,
-   Contribuer à la réduction du chômage en créant des emplois surtout dans les zones rurales et périurbaines.

Pour l'atteinte de ces objectifs, quatre composantes ont été retenues:

Composante A : « Appui décentralisé aux activités de transformation et de commercialisation des produits
agricoles dans les régions de Sikasso, Ségou, et Koulikoro et dans le district de Bamako», d'un coût de 2,5
millions de dollars US, concerne : l'assistance technique et promotionnelle pour la commercialisation et la
transformation des produits agricoles à travers l'organisation des campagnes agricoles, les ateliers thématiques
et les foires, la collecte et la diffusion d'informations techniques, économiques, financières et juridiques, les
appuis aux entreprises du sous secteur, la construction et la réhabilitation d'installations collectives pour les
produits agricoles frais et transformés et le renforcement des chambres régionales d'agriculture (CRA).

Composante B :« Appui aux Associations professionnelles du sous-secteur de la commercialisation et de la
transformation des produits agricoles», d'un coût de 2,031 millions de dollars US, concerne la réalisation des
enquêtes sur les marchés, les formations techniques des intervenants, la construction et la réhabilitation
d'installations collectives nécessaires pour l'exportation des produits agricoles frais et transformés, et le
renforcement institutionnel des associations professionnelles ciblées dont la Mutuelle des Professionnels des
Peaux et Cuirs (MPCP), et l'Association Malienne des Légumes et Fruits(AMELEF).

Composante C : « Réseau d'échanges d'informations et de communication», d'un coût de 1,084 millions de
dollars US, concerne : les études de marchés étrangers et maliens, la création d'un fonds documentaire avec des
informations accessibles aux bénéficiaires et autres acteurs sur l'agro business au Mali.

Composante D : « Facilitation de l'accès au crédit », d'un coût de 93 000 dollars US, a pour but de
développer la coopération entre les entreprises de transformation et de commercialisation des produits agricoles
et les établissements bancaires par : (i) l'organisation de journées d'études sur la transformation et la



                                                           - 33 -

commercialisation des produits agricoles et (ii) l'organisation de sessions de formation.

          II.     RESULTATS ET ANALYSE DES COMPOSANTES

Le PAVCOPA a couvert les régions de Sikasso, Ségou, Koulikoro et le District de Bamako pour les
principaux produits suivants :

Pour Sikasso : pomme de terre, mangue et pois sucré;
Pour Ségou : échalote/oignon/ail, tomate;
Pour Koulikoro/Bamako : mangue, peaux et cuirs, haricot vert, pomme de terre.

2.1.          RESULTATS ET ANALYSE DE LA COMPOSANTE A

(i) Le PAVCOPA a organisé 48 ateliers/rencontres de préparation des campagnes de commercialisation avec
les différents acteurs concernés et appuyé l'organisation de 23 foires commerciales locales et internationales ;
(ii) Plus de 600 enquêtes hebdomadaires sur les prix et les quantités des légumes et fruits ont été réalisées et
diffusées sur les 6 principaux marchés de production et de consommation ;
(iii)         Sur 182 demandes d'appui reçues, 154 dossiers ont été traité dont 40 ont été financés par les
institutions de crédit pour un montant de 265 millions CFA. Egalement 3 sociétés régionales importantes
(Sikassoise, Mali Yiriden, Cikèla jigi) ont obtenu de façon permanente des lignes de crédits de montant élevé
(150 à 500 millions CFA par an) ;
(iv)          Les CRA de Sikasso et Ségou et leur chambre nationale (l'APCAM ) ont été appuyées en
équipements (véhicules 4x4, équipement informatique complet, fax, mobiliers de bureau, etc.) en formation (10
agents en informatique), voyages d'études et foires régionales.

     Ces différents appuis ont permis aux acteurs du secteur :

-    la maîtrise du calendrier de production et de commercialisation de la pomme de terre, pois sucré, échalote,
oignon, tomate, mangue et aussi de la filière peaux et cuirs,
-    l'établissement et la diffusion de la qualité commercialisable et l'identification de marchés porteurs dans la
sous-région et en Europe de chacun des produits,
-    la promotion commerciale des produits agricoles et transformés auprès des consommateurs nationaux et
sous-régionaux.

Les faiblesses du projet ont été : (i) l'insuffisance de résultats dans la recherche de débouchées (seulement
27% de réalisations), (ii) l'insuffisance dans la collaboration avec les institutions de recherche pour innover
des techniques et des technologies simples et adaptées, (iii) le problème d'emballages et d'étiquettes pour les
unités de transformation, (iv) le manque d'évaluation d'impact, (v) l'absence de construction ou de
réhabilitation d'infrastructures de marché de gros, bien qu'une étude d'opportunité ait été faite en ce sens.
Mais des résultats très positifs ont été obtenus en matière de conservation avec les cases de conservation et de
stockage.

D'une manière générale, eu égard aux taux de réalisation des actions prévues dans la composante «
Appui décentralisé dans les régions », les résultats sont globa1ement positifs.

2.2.          RESULTATS ET ANALYSE DE LA COMPOSANTE B

Ciblées depuis la phase de conception du Projet, l'AMELEF et la MPCP, et par la suite le pool
d'exportateurs de mangues, ont été appuyées (i) en matériel informatique et mobilier de bureau, (ii) dans la


                                                          - 34 -

formation des professionnels et des collecteurs avec des modules spécifiques, (iii) dans la levée des droits et
taxes à l'exportation des peaux et cuirs,(iv) par diverses rencontres des professionnels avec leurs homologues
de la sous région.
Par ailleurs, (i) plus de 60 associations professionnelles des filières ont été re-dynamisées ou créées, (ii) 15
tests commerciaux pilotes menés dont 9 sur le marché extérieur, (iii) les normes de qualité de 6 principales
filières établies (iv) 18 unités de transformations ont été créées dont 2 équipées (v) 6500 producteurs,
commerçants, pisteurs ont été formés, (vi) plus de 80 cases de conservation construites, et (vii) 1 centre de
formation en technologie de transformation fonctionnel.

Ces différents appuis aux associations professionnelles de producteurs ont eu pour impact :
- l'augmentation de la production de pomme de terre de 20 000t avant le projet à plus de 40 000t présentement
; le pois sucré de 1000t à plus de 5 000t et l'échalote de 30 000t à plus de 80 000t ;
- la réduction des pertes sur les produits stockés de 60% à moins de 20% sur une durée de conservation
moyenne de 6 mois ;
- la prolongation de la durée de commercialisation des produits surtout pour la pomme de terre et l'échalote
sur 7 mois de l'année contre 3 à 4 mois avant le projet ;
- la promotion commerciale des produits sur le marché national ;
- l'exportation de 1000 à 1 500t de mangues par an, 3 500t/an de pomme de terre, 1000t de pois sucré de
qualité, 5000t/an d'échalote ;
-la connaissance du marché espagnol par l'opérateur économique du pois sucré et la mise en confiance entre
l'opérateur et les producteurs ; et
-l'augmentation et la distribution de revenu aux producteurs pour plus de 10 milliards CFA.

Mais les insuffisances résident dans (i) le nombre d'enquêtes des marchés européens, les tests commerciaux
pilotes et la faible diffusion de leurs résultats, (ii) le niveau faible de structuration et d'appropriation des
associations, (iii) la faible capacité financière des unités de transformation.

Malgré ces insuffisances, les résultats obtenus dans cette composante sont satisfaisants.

2.3.    RESULTATS ET ANALYSE DE LA COMPOSANTE C :

(i) 30 études de marché sur les filières clé ont été réalisées dont quatre (4) sur les marchés des pays voisins (la
Mauritanie et la Côte d'Ivoire);
(ii) 3 ateliers et forums entre professionnels de la filière bétail/viande et peaux/cuirs ;
(iii)        1 répertoire de plus de 280 consultants de compétences diverses pour la sous-traitance d'études et
de formation dont plus d'une centaine ont été utilisées dans le cadre du projet;
(iv)         plus de 75 technologies de transformation dont plus des 2/3 sont actuellement exploitées par les
agro-entrepreneurs du marché malien;
(v) 1 site Web créé avec 3 cybercafés: 1 à Bamako, 1 à Ségou et 1 à Sikasso bien fréquenté          (80 à 100
personnes/jour pour Bamako et en moyenne 10/jour au niveau des régions);
(vi)         3 vitrines de produits agricoles transformés qui exposent et vendent les produits de 20 à 30
transformatrices à Bamako et 5 à 15 au niveau des régions; et
(vii) Un fond documentaire avec 2172 documents divers.

D'une manière générale, si l'on ne fait pas de doute de la pertinence des études, leur faible diffusion auprès des
bénéficiaires et autres acteurs intéressés occulte leur profitabilité, amenuise les efforts de l'APROFA dans ce
domaine et exacerbe l'insuffisance de synergie entre l'APROFA et ses partenaires éventuels. Egalement, le
site n'est pas opérationnel et d'une manière générale, le dispositif de diffusion et de communication est
insuffisant.


                                                            - 35 -

Néanmoins, ces résultats encourageants méritent d'être mieux exploités par les bénéficiaires.

2.4.   RESULTATS ET ANALYSE DE LA COMPOSANTE D :
Aucune activité proprement dite prévue au niveau de cette composante n'a été réalisée.
La réalisation de cette composante aurait permis aux établissements d'avoir une plus grande lisibilité des plans
d'affaires des dossiers à financer.

Néanmoins, le caractère transversal de cette composante explique sa prise en compte au niveau des
composantes A et B à travers lesquelles 40 dossiers individuels ont été financés pour 265 millions CFA.
Au vu de cet acquis, l'objectif de facilitation entre acteurs qui incombe à cette composante a été obtenu.

III.             PERFORMANCE DU BAILLEUR DE FONDS, DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
ET DE L'AGENCE D'EXECUTION

A) Performance du bailleur de fonds : IDA

Le PAVCOPA a été conçu comme un projet test. Grâce à la qualité des interventions de la Banque et
co-financiers, le test a été concluant. La régularité et la qualité des missions de supervisions et d'évaluation
depuis 1999 ont été d'un apport important dans la mise en oeuvre au niveau technique, institutionnel et dans
l'appréciation de la gestion financière du projet.

Les principales insuffisances constatées dans la mise en oeuvre du projet au niveau du bailleur de fonds sont :
-  le retard enregistré dans le traitement de certains dossiers de marché et des demandes de non objection pour
diverses activités ;
-  la modification des activités déjà adoptées par le comité consultatif par des multiples recommandations des
missions de supervisions dont les compositions et les avis sont souvent contradictoires ;
-  changement de chargé de projet (4 tasks manager en 7 ans d'existence du projet) et leur compétence à
mieux orienter le projet.

B) Performance de l'emprunteur : Gouvernement

    Le gouvernement a mis en place les structures de coordination exigées, mais ne s'est pas entièrement
acquitté de la totalité de sa contrepartie dans le financement du projet. Il n'a pas suivi de façon régulière
l'exécution du projet, laissant cette tâche à l'APCAM sans toutefois prendre un acte officiel allant dans ce
sens. Ce bicéphalisme a beaucoup nuit au projet en matière de suivi du PAVCOPA et n'a pas permis de
réagir à temps aux insuffisances administratives financières constatées dans l'exécution du projet.

L'agence d'exécution a passé les accords de partenariat avec tous les organismes pouvant lui apporter un
appui. Grâce à cette collaboration, des résultats probants ont été atteints et mériteraient d'être pérennisés.

C) Performance de l'agence d'éxécution : APCAM
Cette performance peut être appréciée à deux niveaux : niveau national et niveau régional.
Au niveau des régions, le parrainage du projet a été effectif et assez satisfaisant. Aucune activité du projet n'a
été menée sans les CRA et leur participation était effective.
Au niveau national, le parrainage de l'APCAM s'est manifesté par la création de l'agence APROFA. Le
parrainage était théorique parce que les décisions étaient prises par la Direction du projet en rapport avec le
Ministère sans référence au parrain du Projet.




                                                          - 36 -

IV.LEÇONS A TIRER

 De la gestion et la conduite du PAVCOPA , les leçons suivantes peuvent être tirées :
- les objectifs assignés au PAVCOPA correspondent à des besoins réels qui sont encore d'actualité ;
- le projet nécessite une démarche globale et intégrée de la production à la commercialisation avec la
participation effective des bénéficiaires ;
- l'amélioration de l'appui aux opérateurs économiques, aux producteurs et aux unités de transformations dans
les domaines de la formation, de l'information, de leur structuration, de l'approvisionnement en intrants, de la
nécessité du suivi jusqu'à l'arrivée des produits sur les marchés extérieurs ;
- la nécessité d'impliquer plusieurs partenaires techniques potentiels dans la recherche de solutions aux
problèmes divers ;
- les filières agricoles qui ont été ciblées dans le cadre de l'intervention du PAVCOPA sont des filières
porteuses.

V. RECOMMANDATIONS

D'une manière générale, le PAVCOPA a atteint certains des objectifs qui lui étaient assignés.
Sur le plan économique, l'impact du PAVCOPA aura été important. A partir des données partielles que nous
avons sur la commercialisation des produits des principales filières suivies par le PAVCOPA et sur l'incidence
économique des appuis faits aux professionnels du sous-secteur, le projet aurait contribué (la part réelle qui
incombe au PAVCOPA est à évaluer) à la croissance moyenne annuelle des revenus pour plus de 10 milliards
CFA. Toutefois, le secteur informel avec les pratiques frauduleuses occupe encore plus de 50% du marché. Ce
qui peut rendre difficile la percée des professionnels agréés et nécessite une meilleure structuration de leurs
organisations et groupements.

Les appuis du PAVCOPA sont actuellement effectués suivant un cadre d'intervention uniforme qui devra
prendre désormais en compte la spécificité des filières et du secteur d'intervention du promoteur.

Les activités du projet ont connu des interruptions qui ont affecté la finalisation des actions essentielles
entamées. Il est important, au terme de mesures coercitives pour assainir la gestion administrative et financière
de l'agence, qu'une nouvelle phase du projet soit envisagée pour la consolidation et la pérennisation des acquis
du PAVCOPA.




                                                           - 37 -

- 38 -

