Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14037
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3109-TUN)
MARCH 9, 1995
Industry and Energy
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tunisian Dinar (DT)
1989               US$1  =  DT 0.95
1990               US$1  =  DT 0.88
1991               US$1 =  DT 0.92
1992               US$1 =  DT 0.88
1993               US$1  =  DT 1.00
ABBREVIATIONS
CAREPP    Commission d'Assainissement et de Restructuration des Entreprises Publiques
CPG          Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa
GC           Groupe Chimique
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IM          Initiating Memorandum
IMF          International Monetary Fund
PCR          Project Completion Report
PE           Public Enterprise
PERL         Public Enterprise Reform Loan
SCG          Societ6 des Ciments de Gabes
SNCFr        Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
SNT          Societe Nationale de Transport
SOE          Statement of Expenses
SORETRAS Societe Regionale de Transport de Sfax
STEG         Societe Tunisienne d'Electricit6 et Gaz
STIR         Societe Tunisienne des Industries de Raffinage
STS          Societe de Transport du Sahel
USAIID       United States Agency for International Development



Foa oMcUL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S. A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 9, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: TUNISIA - Public Enterprise Reform (Loan 3109-TUN)
Project Completion Report
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Tunisia - Public Enterprise Reform
Loan (PERL), (L3109-TUN) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Region. The PCR
does not contain Part It.
The PERL was part of a series of loans in support of broader structural adjustment in
Tunisia toward deregulation, trade liberalization, and greater reliance on market forces.
Specifically, the PERL supported the introduction of policies affecting public enterprises to
promote increased efficiency and profitability and to support private sector development
through privatization. Reduction of excess employment and restructuring was planned for
targeted public enterprises. Privatization was brought into the immediate government agenda.
Performance contracts were to be undertaken to improve management autonomy and
enterprise efficiency.
The above objectives were partially achieved, but there were substantial delays in the
preparation, adoption and implementation of performance contracts among the preselected
enterprises. The privatization program had a promising beginning, but it failed to accelerate.
Limited progress in privatization was partly due to inadequate performance criteria linking
privatization to objectives in the loan design.
The outcome of this project is rated as marginally unsatisfactory. The sustainability of
the project is rated as uncertain. The institutional development impact is rated as modest. The
PCR quality is satisfactory.
An audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World
Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3109-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   ..............i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ..................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ......1.......... 
1. Project Identity ...................................... 1
A. Economic and Sector Background ................                                               1
2. The macro-economic setting .............................. 1
B. Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) ..............                                           3
3. Loan Origin and Genesis ................................ 3
4. Loan Objectives and Description  ........................... 6
5. Loan Implementation  ................................. 10
6. Implementation of Individual Components   .................... 12
C. Impact and Performance Assessment Under the PERL  ......                         ......... 17
7. Loan Impact and Sustainability   ........................... 17
8. Borrower Performance  ................................ 19
9. Bank Performance  ................................... 21
10. Monitorability and Realism  of Timetables  ...... ..                   ............ 23
1 1. Catalytic Effect of the PERL on Mobilizing Additional Funds  ... ..... 24
D. Lessons Learned                ......................................  24
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                        ....... 27
PART III:    STATISTICAL SUMMARY   ............................ 29
Table 1:        Related Bank Loans .................................. 29
Table 2:        Loan Data ........................................ 30
Table 3:        Loan Timetable: Original and Actual Dates  ................... 31
Table 4:        Cumulative Loan Disbursements  .......................... 31
Table 5:        A: Use of Bank Resources .............................. 32
B: Mission Data  .................................... 33
Table 6:        Status of Loan Covenants  .............................. 34
Table 7:        Data to be furnished under the PERL  ....................... 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.        I






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3109-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Enterprise Reform
Loan (PERL) to the Republic of Tunisia. The Loan was approved by the Board on July 11,
1989 and consisted of Loan 3109-TUN in the amount of US$130 million equivalent. The
original closing date of December 31, 1991 was extended two times to June 30, 1993. The final
disbursement was made on June 28, 1993, and the loan was fully disbursed.
This PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division, Country Department
1 of the Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).
It is based on the Initiating Memorandum, the President's Report, minutes of negotiations, Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, internal Bank memoranda, and correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower.
The Government was sent Parts I and III on May 12, 1994. The Bank requested
the Borrower on January 27, 1994 to prepare Part II by April 1, 1994, and as of the date of this
report no reply had yet been received.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3109-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
Tunisia's strong economic performance of the 1970s began to falter in the early
1980s, with the fall in world oil and phosphate prices. Necessary economic adjustments were
slow in coming and by 1985 a balance of payments crisis was threatening. Government
responded by beginning a process of policy reforms that broadened into a wide-ranging program
of structural adjustment that included measures to reduce administrative controls, liberalize the
trade and price regime, improve the fiscal and incentives systems, and strengthen the financial
sector. The aim was to encourage a more outward-oriented growth and to rely increasingly on
the private sector as the engine of growth. The Bank and IMF supported the Government's
adjustment program (paras. 2.1-2.4 of main report).
Within this framework of creating more competitive conditions, the Government
also undertook reform of the public enterprise sector. The objectives were to: (a) divest
Government ownership in all public enterprises (PEs) in competitive sectors; and (b) for all PEs
likely to remain in the public sector for the foreseeable future, strengthen PE management
autonomy, clarify the relationship between the PEs and Government, and streamline Government
supervision (paras. 2.5-2.8 of main report).
Loan objectives and design
In support of the Government's public enterprise reform program, the three key
objectives of the loan were to: (a) support system wide reform, including legal and institutional
reforms, performance contracts, PE management improvements, and budgetary and financial
reforms; (b) reinforce the Government's program of divestiture and restructuring; and
(c) sub-sectoral action programs for selected PEs: CPG, SNCFT, and SNT', that were to have
acceptable performance contracts, and Groupe Chimique.
The loan had two tranches, the first of US$70 million to be released at
effectiveness, expected in December 1989, and the second tranche of US$60 million, expected
to be released around December 1990. The loan was to close on December 31, 1991.
1/ CPG: Compagnie des Phosphates de Gabes; SNCFT: Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Tunisiens; SNT: Societe Nationale de Transport.



iv
The four conditions for effectiveness were:
(a) Submission to the Bank of satisfactory performance contracts for CPG.
SNCFT. and SNT. approved by the enterprises concerned and the supervising ministry;
(b) Submission of a program satisfactory to the Bank for the preparation of
performance contracts for additional PEs selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank;
(c) Presentation for sale of PEs selected on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the
Bank; provision to the Bank of a satisfactory program for the divestiture of additional PEs
selected in accordance with these criteria;
(d) Allocation by Government to the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund of an
amount at least equivalent to US$70 million.
The four conditions for second tranche release followed from the conditions for
effectiveness:
(a) Approval by the CAREPP2, signature of and satisfactory implementation of
key actions in the performance contracts of CPG, SNCFT, and SNT;
(b) Approval by Government and the enterprises concerned of performance
contracts of an agreed group of additional PEs;
(c) Government to bring to the point of sale a group of additional PEs as agreed
under the condition for effectiveness;
(d) Commitment by the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund of at least US$35
million equivalent and allocation of at least an additional US$60 million equivalent to the Fund.
Other actions to be monitored for release of the second tranche included:
(a) satisfactory progress in the public enterprise reform program, including implementation of
the new legislation on PEs, streamlining Government supervision, and increasing the autonomy
of the PEs; (b) development of satisfactory data collection systems and provision to the Bank of
annual data on budgetary and extra-budgetary transfers to PEs and the arrears situation of PEs;
and (c) satisfactory progress on an action plan for Groupe Chimique.
In addition, a Japanese grant was put in place in association with the PERL in
early 1990 to finance technical assistance to be hired to develop management tools in priority
PEs. A second Japanese grant was put in place in 1992 to finance technical assistance to study
privatization prospects for the cement, dairy, and ceramics sectors (para. 3.7).
2/ CAREPP: Commission d'Assainissement et de Restructuration des Entreprises Publiques



V
Loan implementation
The PERL became effective on February 22, 1990, about two months behind
schedule. The Bank had problems with draft performance contracts for SNCFT and SNT
submitted after negotiations which had a number of parameters that differed considerably from
those agreed at negotiations. While some evidence exists that Government made some of the
changes as requested by the Bank, there is no evidence in the files that the Bank ever received
fully satisfactory performance contracts that had been approved by the supervising ministry,
although this was a condition of effectiveness. Nevertheless, on February 5, 1990 the Bank
informed the Government that once the legal opinion was received from Government on the legal
documents, the loan could be declared effective. The Bank seemed willing to overlook the fact
that the Bank had never actually received acceptable documents in order to declare the loan
effective. No waivers to the legal agreement were required (para. 5.1).
The second tranche release was delayed by about twenty five months, mainly
because of problems with the performance contracts. Initially expected in December 1990, the
second tranche was released in January 1993. A July 1991 mission found satisfactory progress
on institutional reform and privatization, and the use of the Enterprise Restructuring Fund far
exceeded the target for second tranche release. In addition, the mission obtained much of the
data required for monitoring the public enterprise reform program. Evidence of the commitment
of over US$60 million equivalent to the Enterprise Restructuring Fund was received in August
1991, and at that point an audit for 1990 was also required, received in September 1991
(para. 5.2).
The performance contracts on the first group of PEs, CPG, SNCFT, and SNT,
had been approved by the CAREPP only in April 1991 (more than one year after they were
supposed to have been approved by the supervising ministry). Sometime in early 1992, the Bank
discovered that the first group of performance contracts had never been signed. As a solution,
the Bank sought evidence that the performance contracts for CPG, SNCFT, and SNT had in fact
been substantially implemented; if this proved not to be the case, the Bank insisted on
satisfactory performance contracts for the period 1992-96.  In October 1992, the Bank
determined that the elements in the performance contract for CPG had been substantially met,
but not for SNCFT and SNT, essentially because of Government's failure to meet its financial
obligations under the contracts. The Bank then required that the performance contracts for 1992-
96 be predicated on adequate financial restructuring of the two transport companies to enable
them to meet their targets under their contracts. The Bank was satisfied with the performance
contracts drawn up, with the help of Bank consultants, and on receiving evidence of their
approval and signature in December 1992, released the second tranche in January 1993
(paras. 6.1-6.8).
The Government has used both Japanese grants, albeit at a slower than expected
pace, for the purposes intended. About 40 % of the grant to strengthen PE management has been
disbursed and another 23 % committed. The second grant for privatization studies has also been
largely committed, although the funds proved sufficient to finance only two of the three sector



vi
studies intended (cement and ceramics), and the Government plans to request another Japanese
grant to fund further privatization studies.
Loan Impact and Sustainability
In support of legal and institutional reforms, the loan probably had the biggest
impact during its preparation and appraisal. Bank missions made specific recommendations on
various aspects of the institutional framework and there is some evidence that a number of the
Bank's recommendations were followed. The loan contained only a general condition, however,
requiring an exchange of views on progress on the public enterprise reform program. Since the
the Bank at all times was satisfied with Government action in the public enterprise reform
program, it is difficult to assess any direct impact the loan had on this aspect (para. 7.1).
On privatization, counterpart funds from PERL disbursements were used to
finance the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund, which in turn was used to finance
compensation for worker lay-offs and PE liabilities to the social security fund for PEs
undergoing  either privatization  or restructuring.   Allocations to the Public Enterprise
Restructuring Fund exceeded the equivalent of the loan amount. Thus the PERL made a direct
short term contribution to the privatization process. On the other hand, the PERL played a
passive role in terms of affecting either the scope or the speed of privatizations in Tunisia,
accepting the Government's position that committing itself to a specific timetable with a list of
PEs to be privatized would be politically impossible.  In spite of the slow  pace of
privatizations,3 the Bank was satisfied with progress to the extent that the process never stopped
throughout the life of the loan. It could be argued that the long-term impact of the PERL on
the privatization program was quite limited (paras. 7.2).
The loan's most direct impact was on the elaboration of performance contracts on
the basis of financially and economically sound principles. In spite of Government reluctance
to face up to its financial responsibilities, the Bank insisted that the Government undertake
fundamental financial restructuring of the PEs concerned prior to starting the implementation of
the performance contracts. The Bank also insisted that a transparent mechanism, based on sound
economic principles, be included in the performance contract for annual compensation from
Government for the social services performed by the PEs. The release of the second tranche
was held up for more than two years essentially because of the issue of satisfactory performance
contracts. Thus the PERL has contributed to the elaboration, approval, and signature of
performance contracts for at least six PEs, which are based on the principles of on-going
responsibility of the State and the respective PEs. To the extent that these contracts are now
being satisfactorily implemented, the PERL can be credited with improving the efficient and
economic performance of at least six relatively important PEs (para. 7.3).
3/ In the couise of one year, from end-1990 to end-1991, Government sold US$40 million of its
assets in PEs, accounting for less than 0.3% of total assets of PEs as of end-1987; at end 1991,
after four years of privatizations, only about 1% of the assets of PEs had been divested.



vii
The contribution of the PERL to the long-run sustainability of the public enterprise
reform program is weakest on the institutional and privatization aspects. Here the PERL played
a relatively passive role. The Bank endorsed the Government's narrowing of the definition of
public enterprises, because the Bank felt that it facilitated the Government's supervision role.
The real meaning of the exclusion of 400 formerly public enterprises from the definition of
"public enterprise" was never examined. At a minimum, the Bank should have requested the
Government, under the PERL, to commission a study on the status, performance, and access to
subsidies, services, and bank financing of these no-longer-public enterprises, with a view to
defining whether a more pro-active approach to these enterprises (such as divesting
Government's share) was necessary.  In addition, the Bank should have questioned the
Government's approach to privatizing only those PEs in "competitive" sectors, by examining the
definition of competitive and questioning the scope for privatizing even in non-competitive
sectors through the establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework. While reference was
made in the PERL's legal documents to acceptable "criteria" to be used for selecting PEs for
privatization, there is no evidence in the files that such criteria were ever explicitly discussed
or agreed. Thus the process of PE privatization remains to this day relatively slow and non-
transparent (paras. 7.4-7.5).
On the other hand, the contribution of the PERL to the long-run sustainability of
improving PE performance can be considered more substantial. By supporting the elaboration
of clear performance contracts for a number of priority PEs, the PERL reinforced the notion of
Government's explicit financial responsibility for up-front financial restructuring as well as
continued annual support of the PEs to prevent the recurrence of an unsound financial structure.
By insisting on specific performance targets, the PERL also reinforced the notion of PE
accountability to reaching monitorable efficiency goals. Whether these performance contracts
will in fact be satisfactorily implemented, and whether the use of them can be sustained and
generalized to other priority PEs remains to be seen. Evidence from many other countries
across time has shown that Governments are reluctant to meet their obligations to PEs when
faced with resource constraints, and performance contracts in the final analysis have proven to
be a third or even fourth best solution to the problems of loss-making public enterprises. The
question of long-run sustainability is therefore still open to the test of time, as is Government's
commitment and willingness to face its financial responsibilities (para. 7.6).
Conclusions and lessons learned
In summary, the loan of US$130 million represents a substantial part of Tunisia's
lending program. Conditionality for an adjustment loan of this magnitude should have been
concomitantly substantial. Instead, the Bank established unmonitorable criteria, relying on
"satisfactory progress" in two areas critical to the reform process: institutional reform and the
privatization program. Where the criteria were monitorable, they were not met. Satisfactory
performance contracts to be approved by the supervising ministry, a condition of effectiveness,
were apparently never received by the Bank; the Bank nevertheless declared the loan effective.
These same performance contracts were never signed or implemented; the Bank had to find a
constructive and creative way to substitute conditionality to release the second tranche.



viii
Ultimately, it could be argued, that the sizeable adjustment loan brought remarkably few long-
run tangible benefits to the reform program it was designed to support.
The five main lessons that can be drawn from the PERL:
*     Given the importance of the public enterprise sector in Tunisia, which
represents a drain on Government's scarce human and financial resources and may be crowding
out the private sector in several important areas (such as access to credit), the PERL was an
important and justifiable operation.
*     Objectives under an adjustment loan of this nature should recognize the
long-term nature of the process of restructuring and privatization of public enterprises, and set
concomitantly modest targets. At the same time, however, conditionality under an adjustment
loan should include quantified and/or clearly monitorable targets that demonstrate Government's
progress in carrying out the reform program. The PERL was weak in this respect, and had a
limited impact, on two of the three objectives it set for itself: institutional reform and the
privatization program.
*     With respect to performance contracts, estimates should be made, early
on in the cycle, of the budgetary implications to Government of the measures to be contained
in the contracts; in addition, the public enterprises involved should be present at negotiations
when the details of the contracts are agreed in principle, and the Ministry of Finance should be
associated with the process. These measures may ensure greater willingness by all sides of the
contract to honor their obligations.
-     Adequate resources for supervision are critical for ensuring timely and
thorough follow up of the reform program. In the case of the PERL, had supervision missions
been carried out earlier and with more adequate resources, the failure to respect an important
condition of second tranche release would have been recognized at least one year earlier than
it was. Government compliance and release of the second tranche might have occurred as much
as six months earlier than it did, and Government's commitment to performance contracts might
have been reinforced considerably earlier as well.
*     Firmness by the Bank on conditionality, combined with a willingness to
help Government to meet its obligations on monitorable conditionality, is an effective way to
achieve good results on the implementation of an adjustment program, without harming the
relationship between the Bank and Government (para. 12.1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3109-TUN)
PART 1: LOAN REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name:  Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL)
Loan Number:  3109-TUN
Region:       MENA
Country:      Republic of Tunisia
Sector:       Public Enterprise Sector
Loan Amount:  US$130 million
A. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
2. The macro-economic setting
2.1.      Despite modest natural resources, Tunisia's economic performance has been
generally strong. During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy grew at over seven percent p.a. on
average, aided in part by a brief oil boom. Non-oil exports grew at over ten percent p.a.,
however, and all sectors did well, especially manufacturing, whose share in GDP and exports
increased substantially. The rapid growth of GDP was due to high levels of investment, about
30 percent of GDP, financed in part from oil export earnings (accounting for 17.5 percent of
budget revenue), while levels of external financing remained modest, at about 42 percent of
GDP by 1979. Domestic inflation remained moderate, at about six percent p.a.
2.2.      Difficulties began in the early 1980s, with the fall in world oil and phosphate prices
and the depletion of oil reserves. Necessary economic adjustments were slow in coming. The
Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposed a reduction in the investment rate, a shift to labor-intensive
investments, increased emphasis on exports, and containing the growth of Government's
recurrent expenditures. Instead, from 1980 to 1984, investment remained high, at 31 percent
of GDP, mostly in the public sector, and concentrated on heavily capital intensive investment
projects that were slow-maturing and, in the event, yielded low returns. Wages increased in real
terms and outstripped productivity increases, dampening the demand for labor, inflation rose to
an average of ten percent p.a. over this period, and exports slowed. The continued expansionary
policies kept growth high, at about 4.5 percent p.a., but also involved continued external
borrowing, so that by 1984 external debt had increased to 46 percent of GDP.



2
2.3.      The Public Enterprise (PE) sector mirrored the developments in the rest of the
economy. The sector was quite large and included 600 public enterprises in which the state held
at least 10% ownership, accounted for about 25-30% of value added, 30% of formal sector
employment excluding agriculture, about half of total enterprise investments, and 75 % of export
earnings. During the early 1980s, large public sector investments were made in heavy industry
(fertilizer, cement, sugar, car assembly, steel) and in infrastructure (particularly the railway).
PE investment represented 57% of total investments during the Sixth Plan (1982-86). Overall
indebtedness increased markedly, and with the increase in real wages, the wage bills of the
largest PEs increased, between 1981 and 1982, from 38% to 45% of value added. With the
economy-wide increase in unemployment, there was considerable political pressure on PEs to
increase employment and considerable social resistance to reducing employment, even where
warranted. Government attempted to reduce the oversight burden on its PEs by passing a law
in 1985 that redefined public enterprises as those in which the state held 34% or more of the
shares; the number of PEs defined as such decreased to 300. In 1989, the definition was
changed again to reduce further the resources necessary for PE supervision, to enterprises in
which the state owns at least 50% of the shares either directly or through wholly-owned state
subsidiaries. This reduced the number of public enterprises to 200. Companies defined as PEs
were subject to legal and administrative controls, including Government supervision.
Macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment programs
2.4.      By 1985 it was clear that a balance of payments crisis was threatening. Government
responded by beginning a process of policy reforms that broadened into a wide-ranging program
of medium term structural adjustment. The adjustment program aimed at encouraging a more
outward-oriented growth, reducing administrative controls, reforming the incentive structure
including the fiscal system, and promoting the private sector to take a lead role in the economy.
The adjustment measures that have been undertaken on a consistent basis since 1986 include
trade liberalization, which involve reducing quantitative restrictions and tariffs, liberalization of
domestic margins and producer prices, reduction of across-the-board subsidies, introduction of
targeted subsidies, simplification and improvement of the fiscal system, and gradual
liberalization of the financial sector through removal of a priori controls and deregulation of the
structure of interest rates. The Bank and IMF have supported this adjustment program through
a series of Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (Bank) and a Stand-by arrangement,
purchase of funds under the compensatory financing facility, and an extended arrangement
(IMF).
Government strategy and performance in the public enterprise sector
2.5.      It was in the context of this medium term structural adjustment that the Government
started a program in 1987 of disengaging from its activities in the public sector in certain areas
and ensuring greater efficiency and accountability from the public enterprises in others. Within
the framework of creating new, competitive conditions, the PE reform program was designed
to enable the sector to adapt by rationalizing the relations between the state and the enterprises
and by divesting, restructuring or liquidating PEs.



3
2.6.      Government's stated objective was to disengage itself from all PEs in competitive
sectors where the private sector was able to assume the role of operating enterprises, to regulate
effectively public sector monopolies, and for those PEs likely to remain in the public sector for
the foreseeable future, to strengthen the management autonomy of PEs and to clarify the
relationship between the PEs and Government. In competitive sectors, viable PEs were to be
transferred to the private sector as fast as possible, while non-viable PEs were to be liquidated.
This objective was driven by practical concerns: the financial and managerial resources
necessary to support unsuccessful PEs and the resources required to enable efficient PEs to
expand and exploit new opportunities strained scarce budgetary resources.  In the non-
competitive sectors and for those PEs unlikely to be divested in the medium or long term,
regulations were to be codified in performance contracts (contrats-programmes) so as to establish
specific performance targets for the PEs and tariff or other forms of support to be supplied by
the Government, with a view to ensuring that the PEs would operate on a financially sound and
sustainable basis.
2.7.      Prior to 1989, Government's performance in divesting itself of PEs through sale or
liquidation and in establishing stronger regulations for those PEs to remain under state ownership
was modest. Aside from passing the law to decrease the number of PEs under its supervision,
Government had sold part or all of its shares in 6 PEs and had taken decisions to do so on 8
more; it had liquidated a small number of firms and had plans to liquidate 6 more. The
Government's ability to carry out the decisions was stalled, however, by the lack of funds in the
Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund, which was set up to finance the cost of staff lay-offs and
debt repayments associated with the liquidations and divestitures. In addition, the process of
privatization was lengthy and complex, with the initiative coming from individual PEs and/or
their supervising ministry, and with a number of inter-ministerial committees involved.
2.8.      Progress was also slow on strengthening the supervision of PEs, shifting from ex
ante controls to ex post evaluation of performance, and clarifying the respective roles of the state
and the PE through the establishment of performance contracts. Good data were required to
monitor performance and forecast budgetary requirements for PEs; the availability of such data
was limited and in turn, depended on inadequate PE management information and accounting
systems and internal controls. Thus, PEs had to be strengthened internally in all these areas
before realistic corporate plans or performance contracts could be drawn up. The few efforts
at restructuring that had been made, for two cement companies and a paper mill, concentrated
mainly on alleviating short-term problems.
B. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
3. Loan origin and genesis
3.1.      An Initial Project Brief for a Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan was issued in
March 1987. At that stage, the support envisaged was in the form of a fast-disbursing loan to
accompany reorganization and restructuring of a selected number of heavily loss-making PEs in
the mining, chemical and transport sectors. The PEs were inter-related: la Compagnie des



4
Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG) mined the phosphates that were used by the Groupe Chimique (GC,
consisting of five fertilizer companies) to produce fertilizers; both the phosphates and the
fertilizers were in turn transported by the Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
(SNCFT -- the railway). Together they had received, during the 1982-86 period, about 33%
of the total transfers to PEs from the Government.
3.2.      With the concurrence of Government, the design of the proposed operation was soon
broadened by the Bank to include: (i) addressing reforms in the Government's institutional
framework and organization for monitoring the performance of the PE sector; and (ii) support
for Government's privatization and restructuring efforts of PEs.4
3.3.      Progress on processing the loan was based on a public enterprise sector note, sent
to Government in November 1987 and a sector mission in December 1987 to further the
discussions with the Tunisian Government on Bank assistance in this sector. Preparation of the
loan started in earnest with a preparation mission in February 1988. At that time, the main
objectives and components were established that are to be found in the final design of the PERL.
They covered:  (i) the institutional and regulatory framework for the process of both
privatization of PEs and restructuring of those PEs that were to remain in the medium or long-
term in the public sector; (ii) support for the process of privatization and restructuring of PEs;
this included the use of counterpart funds from Bank funds to finance the Public Enterprise
Restructuring Fund (Fonds de Restructuration des Entreprises Publiques) to cover payment of
liabilities and compensation packages for laid-off staff; and (iii) specific action plans for the
largest loss-making enterprises mentioned above: CPG, GC, and SNCFT.
3.4.      Between preparation in February 1988 and appraisal in February 1989, there were
several pre-appraisal missions that focussed on identifying and understanding the strengths and
weaknesses of the regulatory, legislative, institutional, financial, and technical framework of:
(i) Government monitoring of PEs; (ii) the privatization and restructuring process; and (iii) the
three large PEs to receive particular attention under PERL. At pre-appraisal in July 1988 the
basic conditionality was set for appraisal, negotiations, Board presentation, effectiveness, and
second tranche release of the loan, which were formalized in the Initiating Memorandum (IM)
of December 1988. The basic condition proposed for negotiations was the passage of a new law
on PEs, incorporating a number of features, such as reducing the number of PEs under the direct
supervision of Government, clarifying the nature of Government's supervision of PEs, reforming
Boards of Directors of PEs, and simplifying the procedures for approving restructuring and
divestiture proposals. Board presentation conditions covered adequate budgetary provisions for
1990 for carrying out an agreed program of PE divestiture and restructuring, agreement with
Government on the overall strategy for the three PEs, CPG, GC, and SNCFT, and signature by
Government and the concerned PE of performance contracts for CPG and SNCFT. The IM
proposed an unusual approach for second tranche release: gradual releases of small amounts of
4/ In recognition of these broader objectives, the name of the loan was changed slightly to
Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL).



5
funds were to be based on overall progress on divestiture and restructuring of PEs. The amount
of the proposed operations was between US$100 and US$130 million.
3.5.      The review of the proposed operation by the Operations Committee in January 1989
raised a number of questions on the adequacy of the conditionality, since the release of the first
tranche was conditional only on passage of a law and agreement on strategy, rather than any
actions. In addition, the Committee's reaction to the proposal for gradual release of the second
tranche was not positive, with comments to the effect that such a design no longer had the
impact of a fast-disbursing loan, and leaving the impression that Government would be taking
piecemeal steps toward reform. The committee noted that it would be preferable to set a
minimum percentage of assets in the PE sector to be privatized for release of the full amount
of the second tranche.
3.6.      Between appraisal in February/March 1989 and negotiations in May 1989,
Government passed the new law as well as all the key implementing decrees on the PEs, which
established, inter alia, a new, narrower definition of public enterprises, thus reducing the burden
to Government of supervision and oversight of PEs. Since the passage of this law had been
originally proposed as a condition of negotiations, the Bank considered that no further specific
conditionality on the legal/regulatory aspect of public enterprise sector reform was necessary.
On the second major component of the PERL, divestiture, and in spite of the highly politically
sensitive nature of privatization, the Government did bring to negotiations, as requested, an
indicative list of PEs to be privatized, with budgetary implications for their privatization. The
Bank did not set, however, minimum quantitative targets for privatization as a condition for
tranche release: the reason given by the Bank was that progress realized on privatization did
not depend exclusively on Government's actions, but also on the response of private sector
interests. The third major element of the operation involved developing satisfactory action plans
for major loss-making PEs.  Given the complexity of establishing realistic performance
objectives, however, the condition for Board presentation of signature of two performance
contracts was changed to a condition of effectiveness of approval of three performance contracts
by the supervising ministry and the concerned PE (para. 4.4). Their signature and satisfactory
progress in implementation was a condition for second tranche release. Agreed performance
indicators to be included in the performance contracts for the three PEs were contained in an
annex to the minutes of negotiations, as were elements of an action plan for a fourth PE. The
loan amount finally agreed was fixed at the upper end of the range, US$130 million, with two
tranche releases.
Cooperation with other Agencies
3.7.      The Bank requested, in August 1988, a Japanese grant for about US$2.5 million
equivalent, to finance technical assistance whose main objective would be to carry out diagnoses
of priority PEs5 and to enable them to prepare performance contacts or business plans, as
t/ Throughout the report, there are refezences to "priority PEs", or "selected' PEs. The terms
"priority" and 'selected" are not defined in the documentation for the loan or in the files.



6
necessary. Ultimately, a Japanese grant for 270 million Yen, which at the time was the
equivalent of about US$2.0 million, was granted in February 1990 for this purpose. In addition,
during the implementation of the PERL a second Japanese Grant was put in place, in 1992, for
US$800,000 equivalent, to finance technical assistance to study privatization prospects in three
sectors: cement, dairy and ceramics industries.
3.8.      Both the African Development Bank and the European Investment Bank provided
loans for US$40 million equivalent for CPG and ECU 17 million for SNCFT, respectively, to
finance priority investments and maintenance. These loans were put in place in coordination
with the Bank and the timing of the PERL.
3.9.      The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) financed technical
assistance to the Directorate for Public Enterprises, one of the key Tunisian agencies involved
in privatization, to assist in the privatization program, as well as to assist in the development of
capital markets.
4. Loan Objectives and Description
4.1.      As presented in the President's Report, the PERL aimed to help Government in its
program of public enterprise reform. The program consisted of privatization of public
enterprises operating in areas where the authorities no longer saw a need for public ownership,
and the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework to lead progressively to quasi-
commercial operating and management conditions in those enterprises which were to remain in
the public sector. The underlying motivation for the reform program was to enable the
Government to allocate its scarce human and financial resources more efficiently; to clarify the
expectations and obligations of Government vis-a-vis its public enterprise sector; and to
introduce greater transparency in the relationship between the Government and its public
enterprises.
4.2.      The three key areas of PE reforms targeted under the PERL, as presented in the
President's Report, were:
(i) system-wide reform, including legal and institutional reforms, performance
contracts, PE management improvements, and budgetary and financial reforms;
(ii) a program of divestiture and restructuring, including progressive divestiture of
Government holdings in PEs in competitive areas of the economy, restructuring
priority PEs in the public sector, and addressing the social costs of divestiture and
restructuring; and
(iii) sub-sectoral action programs for selected priority PEs: CPG, Groupe Chimique,
and SNCFT.



7
4.3.       The loan had two tranches:  the first of US$70 million, to be released at loan
effectiveness, expected to be in December 1989, and the second of US$60 million, expected to
be released around December 1990.
Loan conditionality
4.4.       The four conditions for loan effectiveness and release of the first tranche were:
(i) submission to the Bank of satisfactory performance contracts for CPG, SNCFT,
and Societe Nationale de Transport (SNT -- the Tunis bus company), approved by
the supervising ministry and the enterprise concerned;
(ii) a list, satisfactory to the Bank, of additional PEs to prepare and sign
performance contracts;
(iii) presentation for sale by Government of a group of PEs or Government equity
holdings in PEs selected on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and
provision to the Bank of a satisfactory program for a further group of candidates
proposed for subsequent privatization;
(iv) allocation to the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund of an amount at least
equivalent to US$70 million.
4.5.       The conditions for the release of the second tranche release followed from the
conditions on the first:
(i) Approval by the Inter-ministerial Commission for Restructuring and Divestiture
(Commission d'Assainissement et de Restructuration des Entreprises Publiques --
CAREPP), signature by the responsible ministry, and satisfactory implementation
of key actions in the performance contracts of CPG, SNCFT, and SNT;
(ii) Approval by the CAREPP and the signature of the sectoral ministry of
performance contracts of an agreed group of additional PEs;
(iii) Government will bring to sale a further group of PEs or holdings satisfactory
to the Bank;6 and
(iv) Commitment by the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund of at least half of the
first allocation (US$35 million) for purposes of divestiture and restructuring PEs,
and allocation of at least an additional US$60 million to the Fund.
6/ This does not imply that the sale of the first group of PEs would necessary have been
completed.



8
The expectation was that the fulfillment of these conditions would reduce the burden on
Government of PE monitoring through the implementation of the new PE legislation and through
divestiture; put in place the appropriate framework for PE monitoring; and have an important
demonstration effect for development of clear and monitorable performance contracts throughout
the PE sector. The implementation of this phase of the reform program was to set the stage and
provide the momentum for continued privatization and for formulating and supervising effective
performance contracts on a regular basis with priority PEs. The impact would be a sustainable
improvement in the efficiency and profitability of the PEs and a reduced burden on Government
resources.
Perfornance contracts and action programs for PEs
Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG)
4.6.      The major actions and specific indicators to be included in the performance contract
for CPG over the period 1989-1991 included: (i) closure of the most uneconomic mines; (ii) a
decrease in employment of about 630 workers (by end 1991) and re-deployment of another 725
(by end 1992); (iii) the principle that investments would be based on a least-cost approach; (iv)
Government financing to avoid excessive short-term borrowing and to ensure that at least 40%
of the investment program would be self-financed; and (v) a series of technical and financial
indicators to be met and an indicative investment program for the years 1989-92.
Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer Tunisien (SNCFT)
4.7.      The performance contract for SNCFT was to be established in the context of an
overall policy for the transportation sector, as reflected in Government's sectoral development
policy letter: the private sector was to be allowed to operate, users were to be allowed freedom
of choice of transport mode, and tariffs were to be aligned over the medium term with long-term
marginal costs of each mode of transportation. Agreements on performance criteria, changes
in the tariff structure, and criteria for ensuring economic investments for SNCFT were the
consequence of this sectoral policy. The performance contract for SNCFT was to include the
following elements: (i) the investment program of SNCFT was to be limited over the Seventh
Plan period (1987-92) to DT 163 million, and all investments were to have an economic rate of
return of at least 10%; (ii) a reduction of the work force by 150 workers per year and an annual
increase in productivity (quantified in a table) in 1989 and 1990; (iii) tariffs were to increase by
at least 2% per year in real terms; (iv) the Government was to ensure compensation to SNCFT
for the difference between the tariffs and the long-term marginal cost for each category of
traffic. Several target financial ratios were also specified for 1989 and 1990.
Soci&e Nationale de Transport (SNT)
4.8.      Again within the context of agreement on a sectoral strategy for the transport sector,
the performance contract for the Tunisian bus company, SNT, contained the following elements:
(i) limitation on investments to about 800 buses; (ii) identification of bus lines to be ceded to



9
private companies; (iii) a decrease in employment to achieve a specified productivity standard;
and development of a staff action plan for training, re-deployment, retirement and recruitment;
(iv) an increase in specified productivity measures; (v) commitment to develop a cost accounting
system; (vi) system of annual revision of tariffs to ensure, at a minimum, the 1989 rate of cost
recovery, in real terms; (vii) Government commitment to subsidize SNT to ensure financial
equilibrium and adequate funding of their investment program.
Groupe Chimique
4.9.       Groupe Chimique consists of five fertilizer companies, whose financial performance
deteriorated with the precipitous decrease of fertilizer prices in the 1980s. Because of the
importance of foreign governmental partners in Groupe Chimique, the need to consolidate the
five fertilizer companies and to undertake major financial restructuring, no performance contract
was envisaged under the PERL. In addition, although the measures mentioned below were all
to be undertaken by the time of the release of the second tranche of the PERL, none of the
actions were formalized as legal covenants. The Tunisian Government was to seek agreement
from their foreign partners for the merger of four of the companies in order to rationalize the
organization of Groupe Chimique' s operations. At negotiations the Bank was informed that such
agreement had been reached with one of the partners and was being sought from the other
foreign partner. Progress on the proposed merger was to be reviewed prior to second tranche
release. In addition, agreement was to be reached by the second tranche release on a
satisfactory financial restructuring plan for 1990-1991 to reduce short-term debt and to prevent
future arrears accumulation. Third, because pollution from the fertilizer plants was considered
an important issue, satisfactory progress was to be achieved on the implementation of anti-
pollution investments for gypsum and sulfur dioxide effluent. Finally, because of the importance
of the transfer price for phosphate between CPG and Groupe Chimique,7 agreement was reached
(at negotiations) that the 1989 price would be based on CPG's export price, adjusted for (poorer)
quality, as an interim measure while the new contract between CPG and Groupe Chimique was
being negotiated.
Other actions to be monitored for second tranche release
4.10.      Aside from the legal conditions (paras. 4.5-4.8) and progress on Groupe Chimique's
action plan (para. 4.9) to be monitored for the second tranche release, the Bank was to review
the impact of the new public enterprise legislation on a selected group of PEs to ensure that
Government involvement in day-to-day operations had been reduced and that progress on
preparing performance contracts was satisfactory. In addition, data were to be furnished to the
Bank covering financial and economic performance of all PEs based on audited financial
7/ Eighty percent of CPGs phosphate production is transformed locally by Groupe Chimique, and
the transfer price had been based on the international price until the agreement had lapsed in
1988. Since then, the foreign partners of Groupe Chimique were exerting pressure on the Tunisian
Government to obtain a moie favorable transfer price. The objective of insisting on using the
international price as a basis for calculating the transfer price was to ensure a commercial
orientation of the PEs.



10
statements, budgetary and extra-budgetary support to PEs, PE debts and arrears to Government
and arrears towards other PEs, a list of performance contracts approved the supervising
ministries and the CAREPP, and all decrees and circulars related to the new law on PEs (See
Table 7 in Part III for a complete list of information to be furnished to the Bank). In addition,
technical assistance was to be hired to improve MIS, accounting, and internal controls in a list
of priority PEs.
Disbursement and Procurement Mechanisms
4.11.     The total loan proceeds of US$130 million equivalent were to be disbursed in two
tranches. The first one of US$70 million was to be released on loan effectiveness and the
second one of US$60 million was to be released contingent on satisfactory progress in carrying
out the public enterprise reform program as spelled out in the Government's sectoral
development policy letter, the loan document, the minutes of negotiations, and the Bank's
Memorandum of the President. Financing was provided for all imports, except those financed
by other sources and those on a negative list that included military or para-military goods,
nuclear reactors and parts, and luxury goods such as tobacco, precious stones, jewelry and gold.
Petroleum products could be financed up to a total of US$26 million and foodstuffs up to a total
of US$26 million.
4.12.     International competitive bidding (ICB) was required for all contracts of US$5
million equivalent or more; all other imports were to be procured following the usual
commercial practices of the purchaser. Disbursements were to be made against statements of
expenditures (SOEs), except in the case of purchases made under ICB, which were to be fully
documented. The Central Bank was responsible for the administration of the loan, with a
Special Account to be set up at the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$20 million.
5. Loan implementation
5.1.      Effectiveness. The PERL became effective on February 22, 1990, about two
months behind the schedule anticipated at the time of Board presentation. The reasons for the
delay are not entirely clear from the files. The Bank had numerous substantive comments on
draft performance contracts for SNCFT and SNT that had been submitted to the Bank after
negotiations. Many parameters in these drafts differed considerably from those agreed at
negotiations. A supervision mission in January 1990 reported that progress on the other
conditions was good, however, and although the two performance contracts still had many
weaknesses, their preparation was progressing. On February 5, 1990 the Bank informed the
Government that the substantive conditions for loan effectiveness had been met and as soon as
the legal opinion on the legal documents was received from the Government, the loan could be
declared effective. No waivers to the legal agreement were required.
5.2.      Second tranche release. The release of the second tranche, originally expected to
be around December 1990, took place in January 1993, about twenty five months behind
schedule. Several factors contributed to this delay, the most salient of which had to do with the



11
performance contracts. The other legal conditions for the second tranche release were met by
September 1991.8 The performance contracts for CPG, SNCFT, and SNT were approved by
the CAREPP only in April 1991, but never signed. For the additional group of PEs, satisfactory
performance contracts were submitted to the Bank only in January 1992. In accordance with
the conditionality spelled out in the Loan Agreement and elaborated on in the President's Report,
the Bank insisted that these performance contracts be signed, and evidence of their signature was
received in July 1992. At that point, the Bank sought evidence either that the performance
contracts of the first three PEs, while never signed, had been substantially implemented, or that
new acceptable performance contracts for these three PEs for the next period, 1992-94/96, were
prepared and signed. For CPG, the Bank found that the elements in the performance contract
had been substantially met except for certain areas, where exogenous factors had played a role
(para. 6.3). For SNCFT and SNT, the Bank found that their performance fell short in critical
areas, both because of the PEs' own performance and because of Government's unwillingness
to undertake financial restructuring and provide adequate compensation for annual losses. After
input from Bank-supplied consultants, satisfactory performance contracts for SNCFT and SNT
for the 1992-96 period were approved by CAREPP and signed by the supervising ministry in
late December 1992. The loan closing date was extended twice, by one year each time, to June
30, 1993, to allow the legal conditions on performance contracts to be met and disbursements
to be completed.
5.3.       Disbursements. The first tranche of US$70 million was fully disbursed by June 30,
1991, about six months behind schedule. The initial US$20 million disbursement was made into
the Special Account, as foreseen. Because of the delay in releasing the second tranche,
however, the loan was not fully disbursed until June 30, 1993, about two years behind schedule.
5.4.        Audits. Audits were received for 1990, 1991 and 1992, with about three to six
months' delay. The audit report for 1993, covering the special account and the use of the
statements of expenditures, was received (ahead of schedule) in November 1993. All original
documentation supporting the SOEs for the period 1993 was mistakenly sent by the Central Bank
of Tunisia to the Bank, and no copies were available at the Central Bank, so the auditor was
unable to issue an opinion. As of this writing, the Bank had returned the documentation to the
Central Bank and requested that another audit be carried out for disbursements during 1993.
/ The other conditions included the Government's bringing to sale a further group of PEs or
Government equity holdings satisfactory to the Bank. In July 1991, the Bank determined that
progress on divestiture was satisfactory: the programn included both an active pipeline and
Government's intention to accelerate the program to include larger, more successful PEs and to
open the process to foreign investors. The few data available on number of PBs or asset size
divested, however, show that the speed and scope of the divestiture program up to mid-1991 was in
fact quite modest. See para. 6.09 for details. In addition, among the other actions to be
monitored for second tranche release were satisfactory progress in implementation of the legal
and institutional framework for improving the relationship between PEs and Government. Again, in
mid-1991 the Bank expressed satisfaction with this aspect, citing several elements in support of
this. See para. 6.11 for details.



12
6. Implementation of individual components
1. Performance contracts for CPG. SNCFT. and SNT
6.1.      Evidence in the files shows that during October and November 1989 the Bank
reviewed in some detail draft performance contracts for SNCFT and SNT. They had apparently
been substantially revised since negotiations with the Bank in May 1989, and differed
substantially from the principles agreed during negotiations. The Bank's comments on the
contracts were conveyed to the Government in December 1989. For SNCFT, the Bank noted
that the principle of covering long run marginal costs was not reflected in the cost basis of the
contract for SNCFT, which used average cost; that the target financial ratios as agreed at
negotiations were not the same as in the proposed performance contract, and that Government's
contribution to SNCFT, to cover 100% of the difference between the tariffs and SNCFT's long-
run marginal cost, was not clearly spelled out in the contract. For the SNT performance
contract, the Bank noted that contrary to the agreement at PERL negotiations, SNT had not
identified lines to be ceded to private operators, but on the contrary had identified lines for
expansion, the target technical coefficients were considerably less ambitious than those agreed
at negotiations, and that financial targets were missing from the contract. No evidence in the
files shows such a detailed review of the draft performance contract for CPG beyond what was
agreed at negotiations. The files indicate that many of the specific issues raised by the Bank
were never resolved, although in January 1990 the Bank decided that the performance contracts
were satisfactory.
6.2.      For reasons that are never fully explained in the files, the performance contracts
were approved by the CAREPP only in April 1991, more than a year after they were approved
by the supervising ministry. In addition, they were never signed. This may be due to the fact
that the approval of CAREPP came toward the end of the period covered by the contracts, 1989-
91, and by then, the ministries and public enterprises were under instructions to prepare new
performance contracts for the 1992-96 period (Eighth plan). It may also be due, in at least one
case, to objections from the PE concerned to some of the targets contained in the performance
contract, that were never adequately taken into account (para. 6.5).
2. Implementation of the performance contracts for CPG. SNCFT. and SNT
6.3.      CPG respected the majority of its commitments under the performance contract over
the 1989-91 period. It had gradually closed the most uneconomic mines and reoriented its
production towards open-pit mining. The number of workers had been reduced by more than
the targets, and labor productivity had concomitantly surpassed the targets. On the financial
side, there was an improvement in a number of the financial ratios, although CPG did not reach
most of the targets specified in the performance contract. The investment program, which was
to be "least cost," surpassed the planned level of DT 65 million by about a third, due partly to
investments that carried over from 1988 and to an unanticipated devaluation that increased the
cost of investment goods. The Government surpassed its obligations by almost 50% in terms



13
of annual subsidies for financing pre-retirement packages and in converting debt to equity.
Nevertheless, CPG continued to make large losses, of DT 12.4 million in 1990 and DT 25.9
million in 1991. The reasons for these losses are never explained, except to mention that
problems with Groupe Chimique played a large role. There is evidence that an acceptable
transfer price was negotiated with Groupe Chimique, but it may be that CPG was badly affected
by the combination of a lower-than-expected demand for phosphates from Groupe Chimique
combined with Groupe Chimique's own financial difficulties that prevented Groupe Chimique
from honoring its financial obligations towards CPG.
6.4.      SNCFT.   Performance over the 1989-91 period compared to targets was
disappointing in a number of important respects. The reduction in personnel, to have been 150
people per year, was about 50 people per year; increases in productivity of personnel did not
materialize; and perhaps most important, the transparent mechanism was never put in place for
Government reimbursement of the difference between the tariffs and the long-term marginal cost;
reimbursement by Government for exonerated traffic was to have been 100%. In the event,
Government provided subsidies to SNCFT ex post after prolonged negotiations, above the
amounts budgeted for, but in amounts insufficient to cover SNCFT's deficits. On the other
hand, SNCFT did respect the targets set up for its investment program under the Seventh Plan,
and the increase in tariffs was on the order of 3% per year in real terms (compared to a target
of 2% per year in real terms), excluding phosphates, whose tariffs had not increased since 1983.
A number of studies was undertaken and one on cost accounting was to be started by early 1993.
Overall, however, the Bank considered that the implementation of the performance contract for
SNCFT was unsatisfactory, particularly because Government did not fulfill its financial
obligations.
6.5.      SNT. SNT apparently never accepted the targets in the performance contract,
because they were not predicated on a financial restructuring to reduce their short term debt
burden, nor given the managerial autonomy to make investment, service, and staffing decisions.
This may explain why the contract was never signed. In the event, the data show that SNT did
not meet many of the performance targets in the contract: (i) the staffing ratio reported by SNT
was not comparable (because defined differently) to the target identified in the contract; (ii)
tariffs were increased, but not by the percentages stipulated in the contract; (iii) one private
sector company was operating bus lines that made up only 1 % market share of bus lines, while
the intention of the performance contract was for SNT to identify lines where private companies
could offer services more efficiently (on the other hand, regulations allowing taxis to operate in
Tunis had been relaxed and there had been an notable increase in their number). Furthermore,
Government had undertaken no substantial financial restructuring and the annual compensation
was inadequate to cover SNT's deficits. It was also true, however, that SNT had made
concerted efforts to increase its efficiency and improve the quality of its services, through
acquisition of new buses and pensioning off of several hundred staff. According to the aide-
memoire from the October 1992 Bank supervision mission, SNT had also limited its investment



14
to a fleet of 800 buses, as stipulated in the performance contract.9 As in the case of SNCFT,
the Bank considered that the performance under the contract for SNT was not satisfactory,
mainly because of Govemment's failure to respect its financial commitments.
6.6.        Bank's solution to the unsatisfactory performance under the performance contracts.
As a result of this situation, the Bank requested that satisfactory performance contracts for
SNCFT and SNT for the 1992-96 period be approved by the CAREPP and signed by both the
enterprise concerned and line ministry as a condition of the second tranche release. Such a
performance contract would be predicated on an up-front financial rehabilitation of SNCFT and
SNT, as of the end of 1992 (as it turned out), to restore their solvency and liquidity. In
addition, emphasis was placed on the need to ensure a transparent compensation mechanism for
the social functions carried out by SNCFT and SNT on behalf of the state. These measures
were to ensure that SNCFT and SNT started off the period, at least as of beginning 1993, with
a financially healthy balance sheet and the capacity to remain solvent in the future through
adequate and timely annual compensation. In addition, the Bank required evidence that contracts
had been signed for technical assistance to introduce cost accounting in SNCFT and SNT. Such
systems were considered a pre-requisite for enabling the PEs to define performance indicators,
monitor performance, and determine appropriate compensation for selected categories of
services.
6.7.        Groupe Chimique.  In mid-1991, the actions to have been taken for Groupe
Chimique were reported by the Bank to have been taken, or in progress, except for the
environmental investments. The proposed merger of the five fertilizer companies was reported
as being complete. According to a separate 1992 Bank report on Groupe Chimique', however,
such a merger was still underway in mid-1992 (facilitated by the departure of the foreign
governmental partner), but was far from complete in terms of integrating the use of the factories
and the management information system.   Second, the files are silent on the financial
restructuring that was to have taken place in 1990 and 1991 to reduce Groupe Chimique's short
term debt, although this is likely because the Bank was aware and involved in Government's
efforts to define a fundamental restructuring plan." Third, according to the 1992 Bank report,
2/ The files contain conflicting information on this to the extent that Bank transport staff
reviewing information submitted by the Government on SNT reported in August 1992 that SNT
appeared to have a fleet of over 940 buses for 1991, considerably over the 800-bus target.
LO/ In 1992, the Bank was asked to assist the Government in drawing up a restructuring plan for
Groupe Chimique. The results of the Bank missions were contained in a report to Government in
mid-1992.
j_/ By end 1992 Government had developed a restructuring plan that showed that as of end 1991
Groupe Chimique had negative working capital of about DT 700 million and was deteriorating each
year. The inability of Groupe Chimique to meet its accounts payable was having a major impact on
the financial situation of CPG, SNCFT, and other public enterprises providing services.
Government's restructuring plan included a "static" aspect, which involved recapitalizing Groupe
Chimique by converting debts and injecting new capital amounting to over DT 500 million and a
'dynamic" aspect, involving Government's commitment to finance their annual deficit, estimated at
a minimum of DT 77 million per year in the 1992-93 period. Government's restructuring plan
showed, first, Government's awareness of the magnitude of the problem, and second, its commitment
to try at least to keep it from getting worse.



15
and contrary to expectations at negotiations in 1989, anti-pollution investments had not yet been
made as of 1992, although Groupe Chimique was about to sign one contract for one of the
planned investments for sulfur dioxide emissions. Finally, an agreement was signed in early
1990 between CPG and Groupe Chimique on the transfer price for phosphate, based on
transparent economic criteria.
3. Additional PEs to prepare and sign performance contracts
6.8.      At negotiations, a list was agreed between the Bank and the Government on nine
additional PEs, of which an unspecified subset was to have satisfactory performance contracts
agreed by the CAREPP and signed by the supervising ministry as a condition of second tranche
release. The nine included STEG, the utility company, two transport companies, and five public
sector cement companies, and the minutes of negotiations specified that the subset would include
at least one transport company, one cement company and STEG, and implied that the list would
include more than three PEs. In the event, the performance contracts that were submitted to the
Bank in July 1991 for the release of the second tranche were for STS (Socidt6 de Transport du
Sahel), STIR (Societe Tunisienne des Industries de Raffinage -- oil refinery), and SCG (Societe
des Ciments de Gabes). STEG was not on the list, most likely because by mid-1991 a signed,
acceptable performance contract had become a condition for loan effectiveness of the Gas
Infrastructure Development Project (Loan 3418-TUN), at that time being appraised. There is
no mention in the files of why there were only three PEs, in spite of the implication at
negotiations that there would be considerably more. Nevertheless, the three that were submitted
were found to be unsatisfactory. New versions were prepared with input from a Bank
consultant, and were found by the Bank to be satisfactory in January 1992; in July 1992, the
Bank received evidence that they had been agreed by the CAREPP and signed by the supervising
ministries and enterprises concerned.
4. Privatization
6.9.      During the 1990-92 period, the Bank continued to be satisfied with the pace of
privatizations, in spite of what appears to be rather modest progress in quantitative terms. The
files are confusing as to the number of PEs affected by privatizations, with numbers jumping
from 28 completed privatizations by mid-1990, to 33 by mid-1991, to only 23 PEs by end-1991.
As of end-1991, proceeds from asset sales came to about US$140 million, representing a little
over 1% of the book value of the 200 PEs as of end-1987. This compares to US$100 million
in asset sales as of end- 1990 -- or incremental asset sales of US$40 million in one year. In mid-
1991, Government was reported by the Bank to be prepared to enter a second phase, during
which larger and financially more successful PEs were to be privatized, through share sales on
the stock exchange and through sales to intemational investors."2 As further indication of the
Government's intention to proceed with privatization, the Government requested, and received
in 1992, a Japanese grant for US$800,000 equivalent to finance technical assistance to prepare
12/ As of end-1993, however, only slightly more than 40 PEs had been privatized, with no
information available on the total value of the assets.



16
privatization for three sectors (para. 3.7). The Republic of Tunisia is the executing agency for
the grant, and the funds have proved to be sufficient to cover studies in two of the sectors,
cement and ceramics. As of this writing, Government intends to submit another request for
funding to extend the privatization study to other sectors as well as the dairy sector, which was
to have been covered under the first set of privatization studies.
6.10.     The Bank appeared satisfied throughout the implementation of the PERL, with
Government's commitment to, as well as the pace and scope of, privatization. While a close
reading of the legal covenants shows that divestiture was to proceed in accordance with agreed
criteria, there is little evidence that such criteria were ever explicitly discussed, analyzed or
agreed, except for mention of the fact that Government intended to privatize PEs in competitive
sectors. See paras. 7.2 and 9.1 for comments on this approach.
5. Other actions to be monitored for second tranche release
6.11.     In addition to satisfactory compliance with the legal conditions and with progress
on the action plan of Groupe Chimique, a number of other actions were to be monitored for
second tranche release that was not formalized in loan covenants. These included the impact of
new legislation on streamlining Government supervision of PEs, progress on providing more
autonomy to the PEs, and progress in agreeing and implementing performance contracts on a
more generalized basis. There is no indication in the files that the impact of the new legislation
was monitored in a systematic or detailed way by the Bank, nor any evidence that a selected
group of PEs were visited to verify that the expected changes had occurred, as had been
anticipated at the time of appraisal and Board presentation. There is mention in the files,
however, that "relations with the State [have been] clarified" (supervision, July 1991) and that
the Government had the intention of requiring all PEs to institute performance contracts during
the Eighth Plan (1992-96). Nevertheless, the Bank seemed satisfied that the institutional
framework had been improved and progress made on Government-PE relationships.
6.12.     The Government did make progress on collecting the data (Table 7, Part III) that
were to be sent to the Bank on a regular basis, and the supervision mission of July 1991
obtained all the items required, except for one. The financial data on PEs covered the period
1986-89, however, and the table on the outstanding debts and arrears to Government and arrears
exceeding DT 1 million to other PEs never materialized. Given that the objective of such data
collection was to provide Government with a timely view of financial and economic performance
of the enterprises, however, such shortcomings are relatively serious and indicate a continued
inability and/or unwillingness of Government to monitor their PEs effectively.
6.13.     Under the PERL, technical assistance was to be used to improve the MIS, introduce
cost accounting, strengthen inventory and internal controls, carry out company valuation, and
carry out staff training in a number of PEs. A Japanese grant was put in place in 1990 to
finance these activities (para. 3.7). Although Government and the PEs have been slow to make
use of the grant, a number of PEs (more than nine) have been granted funding for a variety of
tasks as intended. As of this writing, about 38% of the 270 million Yen has been disbursed, and



17
another 25% committed; there remains a little over 35% of the grant, or roughly US$1 million
equivalent uncommitted. The closing date of the grant agreement was extended three times at
the request of the Tunisians, from its initial closing date of December 31, 1991 to its present
closing date of June 30, 1994.
C. IMPACT AND PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT UNDER THE PERL
7. Loan Inpact and Sustainability
7.1.      The short run impact of the PERL can be examined with respect to its three stated
objectives: (i) to reinforce the institutional setting for system-wide reform of Govemment
management, restructuring and divestiture of its PEs; (ii) to strengthen the Govemment's
privatization program; and (iii) to put in place and ensure implementation of satisfactory action
plans for four important loss-making PEs. During the course of loan preparation and appraisal,
the Bank had emphasized the importance of ensuring clear terms of reference for the various
agencies to be involved in PE supervision, of the need to streamline the process of privatization,
and of the importance of holding PEs accountable for their performance in exchange for ensuring
financial viability. There is some indication that at least some, if not most, of the Bank's
recommendations were followed by the Government in the course changing the institutional
framework for PE monitoring. Bank missions had also recommended types of data that were
needed for effective supervision, and these were ultimately agreed to at negotiations. Although
specific conditionality on the legislation and the institutional set up was absent from the loan,
except for a general covenant on the need to exchange views on progress on the public enterprise
reform program, it could be argued that Bank input during the course of loan preparation
affected the institutional framework. Direct impact through loan conditionality on either the
legislation, the implementing decrees, or the specific institutional arrangements is not evident,
however.
7.2.      On the Government's privatization program, there are two aspects to consider. On
the one hand, counterpart funds from PERL disbursements were used by Govemment to fund
the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund, which in tum was used to finance compensation for
worker lay-offs and PE liabilities to the social security fund. Such financing made the
privatizations possible and more politically acceptable. Thus the PERL made a direct short term
contribution to the privatization process. On the other hand, in terms of affecting the scope or
speed of privatizations in Tunisia, the PERL played a passive role (except for the funding
aspect), accepting the Government's contention that committing itself to a specific timetable with
a list of PEs to be privatized would be politically impossible and ultimately counterproductive.
The Bank seemed satisfied with the "progress' on privatization to the extent that Government
continued the process throughout the life of the loan (that is, there was always a pipeline of PEs
to be divested), albeit at a slow pace, and accepted Government's approach of gaining political
support by proceeding slowly and carefully. Instead of following the Operational Committee's
recommendation of establishing quantitative targets to be reached by Government for divestiture,
or at least to be reached by Government for putting assets up for sale (even if the sales weren't
finalized), the Bank accepted that as long as the divestiture program didn't actually stop,



18
progress was satisfactory. It is interesting to note that at the rate the Government has been
divesting over the 1990-1993 period, during which divestiture was in principle supported by the
PERL, it will take somewhere between 200 and 300 years for the Government to divest itself
of its equity holdings in the narrowly defined public sector; this excludes the 400 formerly public
enterprises (see para. 7.4).
7.3.        Perhaps the loan's most direct impact in the short run was on the elaboration of
performance contracts on the basis of financially sound principles. While the Government was
paying lip-service to the notion of performance contracts by issuing instructions to all PEs
requiring them to prepare such contracts, it was also most reluctant to face the financial
responsibilities such contracts entailed for loss-making enterprises. When the Govemment
argued that performance contracts were to be considered only indicative documents and not to
be interpreted literally, the Bank insisted that: (i) such contracts be preceded by financial
restructuring by Govemment of the PE concemed to ensure that the PE would start the
implementation of the contract on a viable basis, and (ii) the annual compensation for social
services performed by the PEs was essential for avoiding a new accumulation of short-term debt,
should be based on a transparent mechanism, and should indeed be tied closely to the PE's
ability to meet its performance targets specified in the contract. The release of the second
tranche was held up for more than two years essentially because of the issue of satisfactory
performance contracts. Thus, the PERL has contributed to the elaboration, approval, and
signature of performance contracts for at least six PEs, which are based on the principles of on-
going contractual responsibility of the State and the respective PE.
7.4.        In terms of the contribution of the PERL to the long-run sustainability of the public
enterprise reform program, several comments are in order. First, with respect to the overall
framework, the PERL endorsed the new public enterprise law, which narrowed the definition
of public enterprises, thereby reducing their numbers and facilitating Government's supervision
task. The real meaning of the change in defintion for the 400 previously-defined "public"
enterprises was never raised in depth, except for an argument put forth within the Bank that
these enterprises had effectively become privatized by no longer being defined as public. While
it is true that the previously public enterprises were no longer subject to the legal and
administrative constraints and Government supervision imposed on the remaining PEs, no
analysis was done of the portion of GDP, employment, or bank credit represented by these
enterprises. No analysis was done of the possible crowding out effect on bona fide private
enterprises by these public enterprises.13 If the long term objective of the public enterprise
reform program is to ensure maximum efficiency in the economy through promotion of the
fl, The reality is that a number of these formerly public enterprises are owned in part by
essentially public banks and continue to receive short term overdrafts to cover chronic deficits
from commercial banks and rescheduling of their term loans from development banks. This in turn
results in a need for heavy provisioning by the banks, resulting in turn in inadequate capital
(particularly for the public commercial banks), which the Government is at least in part
responsible for correcting through recapitalization. In addition, the presence of these
enterprises on the books of the banks may well be crowding out access of private enterprises to
credit. It is hard to argue that these 400 formerly public enterprises have become in any sense
privatized.



19
private sector, then the continued existence of effectively public enterprises that are no longer
under the formal jurisdiction of the State may constitute a major obstacle to realizing that
objective. At a minimum, the PERL should have requested Government to commission a study
on the status, performance, and access to subsidies, services, and bank financing of these no-
longer-public enterprises.
7.5.      Second, there is no indication that Government or the Bank ever examined the
question of privatizing only those companies in competitive sectors. How competition was
defined, whether there was scope to increase the competitivity of some sectors, and whether
privatization might have been appropriate even in non-competitive sectors provided an
appropriate regulatory environment was established, should have at least been discussed and
agreed on during the course of preparation of the PERL. While reference was made, even in
the legal documents, to "acceptable" criteria to be used for selecting public enterprises for
privatization, such criteria were never recorded in the files or made in any way transparent. To
this day, the process of enterprise selection is unclear.
7.6.      Finally, in terms of the contribution of the PERL to ensuring Government's
commitments to long-run improvements in the public enterprise performance, the PERL
reinforced the notion of Government's explicit financial responsibility for up-front restructuring
and continued annual support of the PEs to prevent the recurrence of an unsound financial
structure. This was a major contribution that may have provided the impetus for Governmetit's
approach to restructuring Groupe Chimique. Whether such an approach will in fact be
implemented for the large loss-making PEs, and within a time frame that will enable the PEs
to have a fresh start, remains to be seen. Evidence with performance contracts has shown,
across time and in many countries, that Governments are universally reluctant to meet their
obligations to the public enterprises when they are faced with serious resource constraints, as
most Governments are. The result is classic: the PEs have chronic arrears, excessive
overdrafts, deteriorating financial situations, and find themselves in an untenable vicious circle;
the problems often infect virtually the entire banking system. Ultimately, performance contracts
are a third or even fourth best solution to loss-making public enterprises, and one that has not
had much success anywhere; the question of sustainability should be examined within the context
of Government's ability and/or willingness to commit itself to such financial obligations and,
more importantly, to honor them.
8. Borrower Performance
8.1.      Institutional reform. The Government has shown commitment to public enterprise
reform. They have (apparently) made efforts to streamline their own supervision, to strengthen
the Boards of directors of the PEs and to provide more flexibility and autonomy to the PES.1O
Nevertheless, the narrow definition of what constitutes a "public" enterprise raises serious
14/ This is inferred from Bank's satisfaction with progress on institutional and legal changes
in the Government-PE relationship; details on the extent or impact of the improvements are not
available in the files.



20
questions that need attention (para. 7.4). In addition, Government's intention to have all PEs
elaborate and implement performance contracts is probably unrealistic in light of Government's
human and (especially) financial resource constraints. Finally, Government's ability to monitor
the PEs effectively and to take remedial action for troubled PEs remains weak. Data are
apparently still inadequate to allow for timely intervention, even if Government were willing to
intervene financially, and up to the present Government has continued to allow the banking
system to provide short term credits to chronic loss-makers, thus weakening the bank's capital
structure and potentially crowding out profitable private enterprises. While Government has
made considerable improvement in the overall framework, more work is still required: (i) to
redefine policies with regard to formerly public enterprises; (ii) to establish clear criteria for
selecting PEs to have performance contracts and to ensure adequate human resources to
participate in their elaboration and monitor results; (iii) to strengthen the system for receipt and
analysis of timely data on the PEs; (iv) to establish clear criteria for PEs to be privatized,
beyond the definition of those in "competitive" sectors (para. 9.1); and (v) to establish a realistic
but more rapid program for divesting PEs that cannot or should not be supported by Government
(next para.).
8.2.      Privatization.  On the whole, Government also showed some commitment to
divestiture. Their commitment to privatization, while unwavering, has been justifiably mitigated
in the early years by their concern for the political palatability of privatization and by their
efforts to minimize the social costs. As a result, the process has been slow. These concerns
have apparently borne fruit to the extent that the notion of privatization is far more acceptable
in Tunisia than it was at the beginning of the process, when Tunisia experienced labor unrest
and at least one PE experienced acts of sabotage as the result of publicity about its impending
privatization. In addition, the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund has been effectively used
to mitigate the social costs of the process, and Government has been willing to fund it
adequately. Nevertheless, the time has come for Government to re-examine the slow speed and
lack of transparency in the divestiture process and to make an effort to accelerate the process.
8.3.      Performance contracts.  This was the weakest area of Borrower performance.
Government never signed the performance contracts for CPG, SNCFT, and SNT for the 1989-91
period and never undertook preliminary financial restructuring for SNCFT and SNT necessary
to enable the two transport companies to honor their obligations under the performance contract.
Tariff rates did increase, but in the case of SNT they were considerably less than had been
agreed at negotiations under the performance contract. The annual subsidies that Government
paid, while in some cases exceeding the amounts budgeted, were still inadequate to eliminate
the deficits; CPG, SNCFT and SNT continued to build up short term debts. This was at least
partly the reason that SNCFT and SNT, in spite of their internal efforts, were unable to respect
the performance targets in their contracts. In addition, Government argued that the performance
contracts were not to be interpreted strictly, but were indicative only. The details of each of the
three contracts had been the subject of extensive analysis and discussion for at least one year
prior to negotiations and detailed presentation of actions and targets at negotiations. It is
surprising that Government would have thought of them as "indicative" documents. By the end
of the loan implementation period, however, it seems that Government renewed its commitment



21
to the use of these contracts, including the financial restructuring necessary to enable both the
Government and the respective PE to honor the commitments under the contract. It would be
interesting to know whether such financial restructuring was ever in fact carried out and to
monitor the performance of both Government and the PEs under their contracts.
9. Bank performance
9.1.      Loan formulation. In concept, the PERL was an ambitious and laudable effort by
the Bank to support far-ranging institutional reforms in the sensitive area of public enterprise
reform and privatization. In design, the PERL was creative in finding areas of reform to
support that fit with the Tunisian orientation. It was, however, weak on the conditionality for
privatization, and basically accepted the Tunisian approach without attempting to improve on it
or expand and facilitate the process. In spite of the recommendation of the Operating Committee
that reviewed the proposed loan prior to appraisal, the loan contained no quantitative targets for
privatization. As a result, the Bank took a passive approach to the Tunisian's privatization
program and probably had minimal impact on it. In addition, the Bank never questioned
Tunisia's basic orientation to privatize only those enterprises in competitive sectors, without
analyzing the definition of competitive, or questioning why non-competitive sectors couldn't be
included for privatization with an appropriate regulatory environment (para. 7.5). Finally, the
Bank should have taken a stronger position on the "new" definition of public enterprise
(para. 7.4).
9.2.      In addition, there were two important gaps in the process of putting in place
performance contracts. One was the failure to include explicitly the Minister of Finance in the
process. Since most of the problem with finalizing and implementing the contracts related to
Government's reluctance to fund the necessary financial restructuring and annual deficits of the
PEs, it would have been useful to associate the Ministry of Finance in the discussions and
agreements leading up to the final formulation of the contracts. This might have ensured a
greater willingness and commitment by Government to foot the bill. The second gap was the
failure by the Bank (and the Borrower) to quantify in advance the likely financial cost to
Government, both at the initial stage of financial restructuring and on an annual basis for the
yearly levels of compensation. This would have made clear from the beginning the budgetary
implications of Government's commitment under the performance contracts, and might have
ensured rapid signature and timely implementation.
9.3.      Supervision. Effectiveness. The Bank declared the loan effective, in spite of Bank
(transport) staff having expressed serious reservations about the specific targets in the
performance contracts that had been substantially changed from the versions agreed at
negotiations. Some of the changes reflected a fundamentally different approach to Government's
responsibility and to public enterprise performance from that agreed at negotiations. There is
no indication in the files that the fundamental concerns expressed by Bank staff were fully taken
into account. In spite of this, the Bank informed the Government that the performance contracts
were satisfactory, and the loan was declared effective. In retrospect, it might have been
worthwhile to make sure that the performance contracts fully reflected all the Bank's comments,



22
even if this had delayed effectiveness by several months. Such a delay would have perhaps
served to demonstrate to Government that the Bank took the detailed targets in the performance
contracts seriously.
9.4.      Supervision. Second tranche release. Except for the Bank's transport sector staff,
who carried out supervision missions frequently, Bank supervision was sporadic during the 1990-
1991 period. In May 1990, an early supervision mission recommended keeping a close watch
on progress in the public enterprise reform program and suggested that the next supervision
mission should take place in November 1990. The next supervision mission was in July 1991,
fourteen months later. This delay might have been due partly to the reluctance of staff to travel
because of uncertain situation in Gulf and the Gulf War that started in early 1991, although
transport sector missions went to Tunisia in March and June of 1991. After July 1991, there
were brief supervision missions every several months, but their thoroughness can be questioned.
In July 1991, the mission reported that all conditions for second tranche release had been met
except for three (the performance contracts for the group of additional PEs, the arrete allocating
US$60 million to the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund, and an acceptable audit for 1990).
The Bank reported to the Borrower (aide-memoire), as well as internally (back to office and
supervision reports), that the condition on acceptable implementation of the performance
contracts for CPG, SNCFT and SNT could be considered to have been met. One of the
outstanding conditions, signing acceptable performance contracts for the additional PEs, was
long in coming (July 1992) and in the interim, after the return of a Bank transport mission in
early 1992, the Bank discovered that the performance contracts of the first group had never been
signed and began to question whether they had, in fact, ever been implemented.
9.5.      The Bank was continuously supportive of Government's efforts to articulate the
performance contracts, and provided extensive input to both the early and later drafts for CPG,
SNCFT, and SNT as well as for the additional three PEs, through the input of Bank staff,
consultants hired by the Bank, and consultants identified and recruited by the Bank for the
Government and funded through a Japanese grant. The combination of Bank's firmness on this
point and the Bank's willingness to help served to get the necessary results without damaging
the Bank's relationship with the Government.
9.6.      The Bank showed a creative and proactive approach to this problem, to the extent
that it agreed that what was important was the implementation of the performance contracts and
not the formal signatures; if the contracts had been satisfactorily implemented, the condition
would be considered met. What is unfortunate is the inconsistency between the July 1991
mission, when Government was informed that the Bank considered this condition to have been
met, and the message to Government about one year later, in July 1992, in which the Bank
asked for satisfactory evidence that the targets under the contract had been achieved. Had the
Bank been more thorough in its July 1991 mission and realized at that time that the performance
contracts had been neither signed nor implemented, the Bank could have asked for new
performance contracts for the 1992-96 period at that point. Assuming that the Govemment could
have done this over the next twelve months, while all the other conditions for second tranche



23
release were being met, the tranche could have been released in mid-1992, rather than six
months later in January 1993.
9.7.      For the two performance contracts that were never signed or satisfactorily
implemented (SNCFT and SNT), the Bank showed flexibility and creativity in agreeing that even
if the targets for the 1989-91 period had not been met, the Bank would accept satisfactory
performance contracts for the 1992-96 period, on condition that they also included acceptable
financial restructuring programs for the PEs involved.
10. Monitorability and Realism of Timetables
10.1.     No specific actions or timetables were set for satisfactory compliance with overall
progress in implementing the institutional changes, including the impact of the new legislation
on public enterprises on Government supervision, restructuring and divestiture of PEs. It was
therefore difficult to monitor what constituted "satisfactory" progress. Short of backsliding on
a number of issues identified during preparation and appraisal, it would have been difficult to
find unsatisfactory progress on this component.
10.2.     The same can be said of the privatization component. No quantitative targets were
set for progress on this aspect either, although it would have been relatively easy to do: number
of PEs put up for sale, percentage of total assets in the PE sector put up for sale, percentage of
added value from the PE sector put up for sale, all could have served as targets for the program.
Thus, in the absence a complete halt to the privatization program, it would have been difficult
here too to find unsatisfactory progress.
10.3.     The two conditions that were easily monitorable were the allocations to and
commitments from the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund and the signature and
implementation of the performance contracts on the PEs. These conditions were, for the most
part, clearly defined in terms of quantitative targets at the time of negotiations, except for the
number of additional PEs to have performance contracts, which was not specified. As a result,
only three additional PEs had performance contracts signed to meet the condition of tranche
release. What is interesting is that the conditions which the Government had the most trouble
meeting (except for those relating to the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund) were those that
were most easily monitorable.
10.4.     The timetable for the release of the second tranche, estimated at about one year after
expected effectiveness was, in hindsight, optimistic, although it was difficult to foresee the
problems Government and the PEs would have with agreeing and implementing the performance
contracts. Prior to and at the time of negotiations, it appeared that all parties concerned were
committed to the process of improving PE performance through the use of these contracts. In
retrospect, it would appear that when substantial sums of money are required from Government
to carry out a program, it is important to ensure that at least most of the sums are budgeted in
advance (apart from allocations to the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund) -- as a condition



24
of Board presentation, or of effectiveness. Had this been done, the performance contracts might
have been signed and implemented in a more timely way.
11. Catalytic effect of the PERL on mobilizing additional funds
11.1.     The Bank and the PERL were instrumental in mobilizing additional funds for
Tunisia. Loans were put in place, in coordination with the Bank and the timing of the PERL,
from multilateral agencies (African Development Bank and European Investment Bank) to
finance investments in a number of PEs. In addition, technical assistance was financed by
bilateral agencies (USAID, Japanese grant funds) to provide input into privatization, public
enterprise reform, and capital market development. The two Japanese grants were put in place
through the direct intervention of the Bank, and with the Republic of Tunisia responsible for
carrying out the technical assistance under both grants (see paras. 3.7-3.9 for more details).
D. LESSONS LEARNED
12.1.     In conclusion, PERL was an adjustment loan of US$130 million, representing a
substantial part of Tunisia's lending program in a given year. Conditionality for an adjustment
loan of this size should have been concomitantly substantial. Instead, the Bank established
subjective and ultimately unmonitorable criteria for institutional reform and the privatization
program, instead of setting precise actions and clear quantitative targets. Where the criteria
were monitorable, in the performance contracts, they were not met. For effectiveness, the Bank
was to receive satisfactory performance contracts approved by supervising ministries. In spite
of the fact that there is no evidence that we ever received such contracts, the Bank declared the
loan effective. For second tranche release, the signature and satisfactory implementation of the
contracts had to be shown; these were never done, and the Bank had to find a creative but
constructive way to substitute conditionality, that retained the spirit of the reform program.
Ultimately, the sizeable adjustment loan brought remarkably few long-run tangible benefits to
the reform program it was designed to support.
12.2.     There are five main lessons that can be drawn from the PERL:
*     Because of the fundamental and far-reaching role played by the public enterprise
sector, reforms in this sector merit Bank support. To ensure a minimal drain on
Government's scarce human and financial resources, to protect the health of the
financial sector, and to ensure the ability of the private sector to compete on a level
playing field, improved monitoring, increased accountability, divestiture and
restructuring of public enterprise are all activities that deserve to be supported by
Bank adjustment loans. In this respect, the PERL was in principle an important and
justifiable operation.



25
*     The objectives of a reform program addressing public enterprises should explicitly
recognize the long-term nature of restructuring and privatization processes; the
objectives of an adjustment program lasting at most several years should thus be
concomitantly modest. At the same time, however, and within the constraint of
ensuring Government's full commitment to the reform program, conditionality
should be based on clearly monitorable, quantified targets that indicate evidence of
a pro-active Government approach and acceptable progress towards the objectives
of the reform program. The PERL was weak on the two most important objectives:
institutional reform and privatization. The Bank took a passive approach by
defining conditionality based on "acceptable," but unmonitorable, progress.
*     Where performance contracts are part of the PE reform program, careful estimates
should be made of the budgetary implications to Government, both up-front and on
an annual basis. This should be done early in the process, and well before
negotiations take place. The Ministry of Finance should be associated with the
process of putting the contracts in place, and the concerned public enterprises should
be present at negotiations, if agreements are to be reached in principle on the targets
to be included in the performance contracts. These measures may prevent delays
in finalizing the contracts and may help ensure that the contracts will be honored by
all sides.
e     The Bank must put adequate resources into supervision, to ensure timely and
thorough review of the critical aspects of the reform program. Had the Bank done
this under the PERL, the failure to respect a key condition, signature and
implementation of performance contracts, would have been recognized at least one
year earlier than it was, and the second tranche might have been released as much
as six months earlier. In addition, Government's commitment to and responsibility
for performance contracts might have been reinforced considerably earlier than it
was.
*     If the Bank is willing to be firm on monitorable conditionality and, at the same
time, provide constructive input to help Government meet the conditionality, the
Bank can achieve good results in terms of Government's implementation of an
adjustment program, while maintaining a positive relationship with Government.






27
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE






29
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
PART III: STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title and Number     Amount                                   Purpose                              Month/year of               Status
l___________________________________________________________  _   approval           l__apr va
ASAL - 2754               USSISOm      To support Government's agricultural sector reform program,      September 1986      Closed June 30, 1989
Agricultural Sector                    focussing on increasing producer prices, reducing subsidies on
Adjustment Loan                        inputs, strengthening extension and research and increasing interest
rates. Macro-economic components include an exchange rate
adjustment, a first round of import liberalization measures, and
budget cuts.
ITPAL   - 2781            USSI50m      To support the initial phase of Government's adjustment program  January 1987        Closed December 31,
Industrial Trade and                   for the industrial sector, including industrial price and trade                       1989
Policy Adjustment                      liberalization measures, a new investment code, fiscal reform,
Loan                                   foreign exchange risk coverage.
SAL    - 2962             USSISOm      To support Government's second phase of medium-term macro-       June 1988           Close June 30, 1991
Structural Adjustment                  economic program to liberalize trade, decontrol prices, limit
Loan                                   subsidies, increase efficiency of financial intermediation through
raising interest rates and reform of taxation through introduction of
VAT and simplification of income tax law.
ASAL 11 - 3078            USS84m       To support the second phase of Government's medium-term          June 1989           On-going (to closc
Agricultural Sector                    adjustment in agriculture, focussing on reform of the marketing,                     December 1994)
Adjustment Loan                        institutional and price framework in agriculture, reorienting public
investment in agriculture, rationalizing the role of the public sector,
and improving management of natural resources.
EFRSL   - 3424            USS250m      To address remaining obstacles to long-term growth. The loan     December 1991       On-going (to closc
Economic and                           includes achieving virtually complete trade and price liberalization,                December 1994)
Financial Reform                       strengthening the financial markets by introducing strict prudential
Support Loan                           regulations. strengthening supervision by Central Bank, liberalizing
interest rates, adopting a unified code of investment, and reforming
the social security system.



30
Table 2: Loan Data
(US$ million)
As of February 28, 1994
Loan No.             Original        Disbursed        Cancelled         Repaid         Outstanding
3109-TUN                    130.0            130.0             0.0
Japanese Grant               2.0                 1.03
(million yen)              (270.0)           (103.0)           NA              NA                NA
Japanese Grant 2/            0.8
(million yen)              (108.0)                             NA              NA                NA
1/ For hiring consultants to assist PEs in their accounting, budgeting, information system, internal control and in the prepaation of performance contracts.
2/ For financing technical assistance to carry out privatization studies in three sectors: cement, dairy and ceramics.
3/ Since the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the US Dollar has changed since the date of the grant agreement, there are currently abouL
USSI.6 million dollars in undisbursed funds under the grant, of which about USS0.6 million have been committed.



31
Table 3: Loan Timetable: Original and Actual Dates
Original/Planned Date         Revised/Actual Date
Initiating Memorandum        June 1987                      December 12, 1988
Letter of Development Policy    March 1988 "                June 2, 1989
Negotiations                 June 1988                      May 15-19, 1989
Board Approval                August 1988                  July 11, 1989
Loan Agreement - Signing     September 1989                 September 25, 1989
Effectiveness                January 1990                   February 22, 1990
Second tranche release       December 1990                  January 13, 1993
Closing date                 December 31, 1991             June 30, 1993
I/ Expected original date of yellow cover SAR
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
l _     _    _    _    _     _    _        FY90          FY91           FY92          FY93
Planned                                  40             130
Actual                                   28.3           70.0          70.0          130.0
Actual as % of Planned                   71             54            54            100



I~~~~ ..           ...-    ..   .   ..   ..   ....   .....   . .   . ..   .......=
O;: ;0;06'L  01'0      OZ'LI       OZ-LI       O'8         06-0E                                                                      NQ1S1AB3dfS
''.''.'".'C' 0''  ",,,''','','','''' ===.   ........    . =
=              =          =          ~~~~~091        0 Z                                                      SNOllVllODSN
:;t 7 -;|ito^f-t;                                          ~~~~OS 6t                                                       1SYS ddV
.t; t:0;04  -.$  ;-.                                        Ol S01       Of Z01         OZ0         01 0              NOUVld3Xd
iWAL           p0 - 661    61        Z661        1661        0661          6S61      S    S61           L861        9861                       dIISVI 
s.nduj ...s ..uea v
sa,Jnosa,j xue jo asfl s eqe,
... ...   .. .. .....~Z



33
Table S. Use of Bank Resources
B. Mission Data
| Project Stage     [ Month/Year             No. weeks    |  No. persons         Staff-weeks       Date of repot      [ Rating
Preparation         February 1988               2                8                16             April 11, 19882/
Pre-appraisal       April/May 1988              1                4                 5             May 19881/
June/July 1988             2.5              10                22             July 19, 1988'/
Appraisal           February/March 1989        3                 8                 19            April 1989'/
Supervision         August 1989/               0.5               1                 0.5           September 11, 1989
October 19891/             0.5               2                 1             December 5, 1989
November 1989'/            0.5               1                 0.5           December 11, 1989
January 1990                .6               2                 1             February 2, 1990          l
May 1990                   1.6               2                 3             June 15, 1990             I
May/June 1990'/            1                 3                 3             July 18, 1990
March 1991'!               0.5               2                 1             March 20, 1991            2
June 1991'/                1                 1                 1             July 15, 1991
July 1991                  1                 3                 3             July 24, 1991             2
November 1991              1                 1                 1               N/A
February 1992'/            1.5               1                 0.5           March 9, 1992
July 1992                  0.5               2                 1
September/October          1                 2                 2             October 21, 1992          2
1992
December 1992              0.5               1                 0.5           December 21, 1992
1/   Transport mission
2/   Letter to Government of Tunisia
3/   Draft IM
4/   Back to office Report
5/   Yellow Cover President's Report.



34
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
Table 6: Status of Coveas
Sections                        Covenants for effectiveness                                   Status
5.01 a) (i)        The Borrower has furnished to the Bank: (i) an enterprise    Nothing in the Bank's files indicates that this
performance plan for each of CPG, SNCFT and SNT, which      condition was fulfilled; a supervision mission
has been approved by the enterprise concerned and its       noted in January 1990 that progress had been
supervisory sectoral ministry and the principal elements of  realized in the elaboration of performance
which are satisfactory to the Bank;                         contracts, but the Bank never received these
documents (according to a search of Bank
files). The Bank nevertheless declared the
loan effective.
5.01 a) (ii)        A program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the preparation of  This condition was considered to have been
enterprise performance plans for additional public enterprises  met in February 1990, with the submission to
selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;  the Bank of the additional PEs names to
prepare performance contracts (the list was
shoner than that agreed at negotiations, but
two of the three PEa were on this earlier list).
5.01 b) (i)         The Borrower has: i) furnished to the Bank evidence         In January 1990, the Bank reported
satisfactory to the Bank that all arrangements required to  satisfactory progress in the divestiture
ensure the efficient divestiture of government holdings in  program. It was reported that $100 million
enterprises selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to  of assets involving government holdings in
the Bank have been completed;                               almost 20 companies had been privatized.
5.01 b) (ii)        The Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Bank a       Bank reported that divestiture as of January
program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the divestiture of   1990 exceeded their expectations even for
government holdings in additional enterprises selected in   second tranche release and that the pipeline
accordance with said criteria;                              for further divestiture was active. This
condition was considered to have been met.
5.01 c)            The Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory  A copy was sent to the Bank in January 1990
to the Bank that the Borrower has allocated to the Public   of the Journal Officiel of December 29-31,
Enterprise Restructuring Fund funds in an amount equal at   1989, showing a DT 70 million allocation to
least to the equivalent of $70,000,000.                     Fund, equivalent to USS 77 million.
Sections            Covenants for Second Tranche Release                                           Status
Schedule 4          Enterprise Performance Plans                                This covenant was nevcr respected for two of
I. (a)                                                                         the three PEs listed in Section 5.01 (a) (i).
Implementation of the enterprise performance plans referred to   Instead, the Bank requested and received
in Section 5.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement in accordance with   evidence in December 1992 that satisfactory
their terms.                                                performance contracts for SNCFT and SNT
for the 1992-96 period had been approved by
the parties concerned and signed.
Schedule 4          Establishment of enterprise perfonnance plans, which have   Evidence of the signature of satisfactory
I. (b)             been approved by the Borrower and the enterprises referred to    enterprise performance plans for three PEs
in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement and the principal  was received by the Bank in July 1992, about
elements of which are satisfactory to the Bank.             eighteen months behind schedule.



35
Schedule 4          Divestiture                                                 In July 1991, the Bank declared that it was
2.                                                                              satisfied that this condition had been met (33
Completion of all arrangements required to ensure the efficient   enterprises had been fully or partly
divestiture of govermnent holdings in the enterprises selected  privatized).
pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
Schedule 4          Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund                        In July 1991, the Bank received a note from
3. (a)                                                                          the Budget Directorate in the Ministry of
Commitment, in accordance with the Program, of an amount    Planning that commitments through June
equivalent at least to $35,000,000 of the amounts allocated to  1991 equalled DT 76 million or USS 78
the Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund pursuant to Section  million equivalent. This condition was
5.01 (c) of this Agreement.                                 considered met.
Schedule 4          Allocation to said Fund, in addition to the amounts referred to    A copy of the arret6 was sent to the Bank in
3. (b)              in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, of an amount equivalent   August 1991 showing a DT 60 million
at least to $60,000,000.                                    allocation to the fund, equivalent to about
USS 61 million. This condition was
considered satisfied.



36
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
Table 7: Data to be furnished under the PERL
1.        Annual table on financial and economic data on all PEs
2.        Annual table on budgetary and extra-budgetary transfers to all PEs
3.        Annual table on outstanding debts and arrears of PEs to Government and arrears
exceeding DT I million to other PEs
4.        List of performance contracts agreed by supervising ministries and CAREPP
according to an agreed schedule to include STS (Tunis bus company),
SORETRAS (transport company in Sfax), STEG (utility company), and six
cement companies
5.        All decrees and circulars relating to the recent law on PEs
6.        Terms of reference for all technical assistance related to PE reforms and a copy
of consultants' reports
7.        Circular regarding the restructuring of PEs
8.        Arrete on funding for Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund
9.        Commitments, disbursements, and situation of the Public Enterprise
Restructuring Fund









