Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICtAL USE ONLY
RqportNo. P-5055-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT T0 US$130 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
JUNE 12, 1989
This document has a restried distion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offidal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbilosed withoot World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 31, 1989)
Current Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00    =    TD 0.9849
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAR_-?       Interministerial Commission for Restructuring and Divestiture
CIF          Cost, Insurance and Freight
CPG          Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa
DEP          Directorate for Public Enterprises
GC           Groupe Chimique
IFC          International Finance Corporation
EMF          International Monetary Fund
MLT          Medium and long-term
PDG          President Director General (Company President and Chief
Executive)
PE           Public Enterprise
PEAL         Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PM           Prime Minister
PPG          Public and Publicly Guaranteed
P205         Phosphoric Acid
SNCFT        Societ6 Nationale des Chemins de -Fer Tunisiens
SNT          Societe Nationale de Transport
S02          Sulfur dioxide
TA           Technical Assistance
TD           Tunisian Dinar
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCILAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOA-
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
PART I    - THE ECONOMY .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART II   - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY . . . . .        8
PART III   - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM AND THE PROPOSED
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL). . . . . . . . . .      11
Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
The Public Enterprise Sector: Issues and Actions. . . .      12
A. Systemwide Reforms .steniwideReforms..... ..........      14
(i) Legal and Institutional Reforms . . . . . . . . .      14
(ii) Introduction of performance contracts and
management improvements . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
(iii) Budgetary and Financial Reforms . . . . . .   . .      19
B. Divestiture and Restructuring Program. . . . . . .        21
C. Subsectoral Action Programs 'or Priority PEs . . .        25
The Phosphate Sector . . . . . . . . .  .. ...            26
Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa. . . . . . . . .      27
Groupe Chimiqe . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .       29
Transport Sector Policy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      32
Soci6t6 Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens . .      33
D. Social Implications of the Proposed PERL . . . . . .      36
PART IV    -LOAN ADMINISTRATION. ............. ....                       37
Eligible Expenditures Procurement and Disbursement. . .      37
Release of Funds, Tranching and Key Conditions. . . . .      38
Management, Coordination and Monitoring . . . . . . . .      40
Cooperation with other Agencies .             . . . . .      41
Justification and Risks ....  .     .  .  .  .    . .....   .  42
PART V     -RECOMMENDATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising:
P. Donovan (Mission Leader) and S. Kebet-Koulibaly (EM2IE), R. Taylor (EMTTF),
S. Contreras and P. Geraldes (EM2IN), S. Mitric and K. Viswanathan (EMTIN), A.
Covindassamy (AS4TE) and J. Malkin (Condultant) which visited Tunisia in
February/March 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Table of Contents
(continued)
I.    Key Economic Indicators ....  .      .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .    44
II.    Status of Bank Operations in Tunisia  . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
III.    Progress Under Existing Adjustment Operations
(ASAL-1, ITPAL and SAL).           . . . . . . .               48
IV.    Letter of Sectoral Development Policy . .  . . . . . . . . .  57
V.     Policy Matrix for the Public Enterprise Reform Program. . .    65
VI.     Key Provisions of New Public Enterprise Law . . . . . . . . .  68
VII.     PE Sector: Macroeconomic Indicators 1983-85 . . . . . . . . .  69
VIII.     Aggregate PE Data - 40 major PEs, 1981-86 . . . . . . .  . .  70
IX.    Key 1987 Indicators for Selected Public Enterprises . . . . .  71
X.     Government - PE Financial Relations 1982-88 . . . . . . . . .  72
XI.     World Supply/Demand Phosphate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
XII.     Government Financial Contributions to CPG 1980-88 . . . .  .    .   74
XIII.     CPG Production Raw Phosphate 1980-93  . .  . . . . . . .   . .  . 75
XIV.     CPG Cost Structure - Variable and fixed cash costs - 1988 . .  77
XV.     CPG Investment Program 1986-93  . . . . . . . . . . . ..   .   78
XVI.     CPG Personnel Evolution 1980-88 . . . . . . . . . . . .  .      79
XVII.     CPG Staff Reduction Program . . . . . . . .  . . . . .        .  80
XVIII.     CPG Financial Performance Indicators 1988-93   . . . . .  . .... 81
XIX.     Groupe Chimique: Production Data by Company 1986-88   . .  .   82
XX.    Groupe Chimique Ownership Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . .  85
XXI.     Groupe Chimique Past and future Financial Performance
Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .    .    86
XXII.    Railway subsector (SNCFT) .............  88
XXIII.     SNCFT's Traffic 1981-93 . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  .  .  .   .   92
XXIV.     Suimmary Financial Indicators of SNCFT 1985-93   . . . . .  .   93
XXV.    Urban Transport Enterprises (SNT) .    ........  . ..  .   .  94
XXVI.     Supplementary Project Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .   .  100
XXVII.     Disbursement Schedule     .       .. ....         ......       101



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
PUBLIC E:TERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Loan and Program Sunary
Borrmar:                    Republic of Tunisia.
Amount:                    US$130.0 million equivalent.
ters:                       17 years. including S years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
The proposed loan would support the implementation of a
comprehensive program of Public Enterprise Reform which has been
initiated by the Tunisian authorities. This program centers
around: (i) legal and institutional reforms which substantially
reduce the role of the Government in the public sector and
clarify and streamline Government interventions in enterprises
which will remain in the public sector and (ii) a program of
privatization and restructuring of public enterprises (PEs) to
further reduce the role of the Government in the competitive
areas of the economy while addressing the social costs associated
with these measures. The proposed loan is designed to assist
this program by identifying specific time-bound short- and
medium-term measures to address the objectives and by assisting
in their implementation. The loan therefore supports (i) the
imalementation of the new law governing PEs (phased strengthening
of Boards of Directors, introduction of performance contracts.
abolition of ex-ante controls, increased transparency in the
budget allocation process. etc.), (ii) the implementation of
privatization decisions and the financing of the associated
budgetary costs and (iii) initiating the process of subsectoral
restructuring of three major PEs in severe difficulty: Compagnie
des Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG) -- the phosphate mines, Groupe
Chimique -- fertilizer producers, and Societe Nationale des
Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT) -- the Tunisian Railway.
ae1tiiti anld Risks:        Major benefits include: increasing the efficiency of the economy
by progressively transferring potentially competitive PEs to the
private sector wherever the latter has the resources, expertise
and flexibility to realize the full potential of these
enterprises; in:reasing the efficiency of PEs remaining in the
public sector by progressively introducing transparent and
quasi-comnercial performance criteria, through performance
contracts; progressively addressing the social and financial
costs of privatization and restructuring of PEs. some of which
are in severe technical and/or financial difficulties. As in
other major programs of PE sector reform, the main risk is that
bureaucratic and social opposition will hamper the implementation
of difficult and politically sensitive policy decisions. These
risks are mitigated by the support for the Reform process at the
highest levels in the Government. by the actions already taken,
by the explicit programs underway to manage the social costs of
adjustment and by monitoring under this loan specific
quantifiable measures to be implemented over a two-year period.
litinatad Disbursements:  The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two tranches:
US$70 million equivalent upon loan effectiveness and US$60
million equivalent after implementation of specific actions,
including an overall review of the implementation of the sectoral
adjustment program.
Agprailal Reoort:           None.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TiIE PRESIDENT
OF THE NTRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUJNT EQUIVALENT TO US$130.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
INTRODUCTION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$130.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia.
The loan would support the extensive program of Public Enterprise Reform
being undertaken by the Tunisian authorities. This program consists
primarily of the privatization of public enterprises operating in areas
where the authorities no longer see a need for public ownersh p, and the
establishment of a legal and regulatory framework that would progressively
lead to quasi-commercial operating and management conditions in those
enterprises which will remain in the pe-lic sector. These measures are
intended to maximize economic efficiency and to minimize the budgetary
outlays to public enterprises. The proposed Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(PERL) will help the Government in the implementation of this program
through the use of specific time-bound measures for the progressive
realization of the reform objectives.  Through providing general balance
of payments support to the Government, the loan will also release
resources which will finance a portion of the social and budgetary costs
of the program, over a two year period. The Public Enterprise Reform
Program is an integral part of the overall macroeconomic adjustment
process aimed at promoting sustainable growth. PERL would be the fifth
quick disbursing operation for Tunisia. The first Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Loan (ASAL) for US$150 million was approved in September 1986.
An Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) for US$150 million
was approved in FY87. A Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) for US$150
million was approved in FY88, and a second ASAL was approved by the Board
last June. The latter operation is not yet effective. Performance under
each of the other operations has been satisfactory (Annex III). Tunisia
also successfully completed the program agreed with the IMF under its
first stand-by arrangement covering the period November 1986 to May 1988.
An extended financing facility was signed in July 1988, and is being
successfully implemented.
PART I - THE ECONOMY A'
2.       Background.  Tunisia is a medium-sized, middle-income country,
with a population of 7.5 million and a per capita income of US$1,210.
Much of the country is arid or semi-arid. Only 3 percent of arable land
-L' This section is essentially the same as that included in the Second
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan approved by the Board on June 1, 1989,
Report No. P-5001-TUN.



- 2 -
is irrigated and rainfed agriculture is subJect to severe year-to-year
fluctuations in rainfall. Nevertheless, nearly one third of the labor
force is employed in agriculture. Tunisia's most important raw materials
are petroleum, natural gas, and phosphates. Output of known exploitable
reserves of oil and gas is diminishing because of depletion, and the
limited new reserves require costly off-shore drilling. With the rise in
domestic energy demand, Tunisia is expected to become a net oil importer
in the early 1990s. There is a substantial phosphate processing industry,
but it is constrained by the low quality of the phosphate deposits.
Tourism, however, has been developing rapidly and has much further
potential.
3.       Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to  *velop its human
resources paying special attention to family welfare and education. As a
result, between the early 1960s and 1985, infant mortality declined from
almost 160 to 60 per thousand, life expectancy at birth rose from 48 to
62 years, adult literacy increased from 15 percent to 62 percent, and
calorie intake per capita increased from 95 percent to 121 percent of
minimum standard requirements. An active family planning policy led to a
decrease in birth rates by 27 percent between 1965 and 1985.
Nevertheless, as mortality declined by 45 percent over the same period,
population growth has continued at 2.5 percent p.a.. The population ha8 a
young age structure, which, together with the increasing entry of women
into the labor force, has caused the labor force to grow faster than
population. The effect on unemployment, which is currently estitated at
about 15 percent and particularly affects young entrants into the labor
force, is a major concern of the Government.
4.       During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy performed strongly, aided
by oil exports. GDP growth averaged 7.4 percent per year over the decade
and non-oil exports grew at over 10 percent p.a. on the average. All
sectors did well, especially manufacturing, whose share in GDP and exports
increased substantially. To a great extent, the rapid growth of GDP was
due to high levels of investment, about 30 percent of GDP, which was
compatible with a respectable growth of per capita consumption and a
modest level of external financing, thanks to earnings from oil. The
current account deficit averaged 5-6 percent of GDP, though there was a
brief increase in 1976-78 to a peak of 11 percent of GDP, which the
resurgence of oil prices reduced again without necessitating cutting back
investment or consumption. Since Tunisia attracted considerable foreign
investment, it had no difficulty in completing the financing of the
current account from external sources. The country emerged from the
decade with a modest increase in external indebtedness to 42 percent of
GDP in 1979, as compared to 38 percent in 1970, and a debt service ratio
of only 10 percent. Domestic inflation remained moderate, averaging 6.1
percent a year.
1980-84: Deteriorating economic performance
5.       Difficulties began in the earl" 1980s:  although oil extraction
declined as expected and, in addition, world oil prices fell, the
necessary economic adjustments were slow in coming. The VIth Plan
(1982-86) did, in fact, propose maintaining internal and external balance
301 3L



-3-
by reducing the investment rate, increasing emphamis on exports, and
slowing the growth of recurrent budget expenditurts. To promote job
creation, it envisaged a shift to more labor-intensive investment. But,
in fact, these objectives were not pursued. Instead, from 1980 to 1984,
investment remained high, around 31 percent of GDP. The greater part of
this investment was in the public sector and included a number of large
capital intensive projects yielding few jobs and low economic returns.
The five year non-oil ICOR for this period was 6.0. Wages increased
substantially faster than productivity, further reducing the demand for
labor, Inflation rose to an average of 10.0 percent p.a., and exports
slowed. The current account deficit grew to 10.9 percent of GDP in 1984
with the agricultural merchandise trade deficit representing 3.2% of GDP.
These expansionary policies kept growth high; it averaged 4.5 percent for
the per.od, despite a drought in 1982 that slightly reduced GDP. But they
depended on continued external borrowing which raised Tunisia's external
debt (public and publicly guaranteed (PPG)) to 46 percent of GDP and the
debt service ratio to 21 percent by 1984, reflecting a shortening of
average maturities.  The Government attempted to restrain its
expenditures; nonetheless, the overall budget deficit stayed close to
6.7 percent of GDP.
1985-87: Stabilization and the start of adjustment
6.       By 1985 Tunisia had begun to experience problems in obtaining
external financing for its high current account deficit, and it became
clear that a balance of payments crisis was threatening. Accordingly,
after responding with some initial restrictive measures, the Government
began a process of policy revision that has broadened into a wide-ranging
proces's of structural adjustment   Its first step was to restrict
imports- This succeeded in bringing the current account deficit down to
7.1 percent of GDP, but, as usual with such controls, shortages of raw
materials and spare parts developed, as well as biases against production
for export. The Government also reduced its investment, which had
accounted for most of total investment.
7.       As a result of these measures, and by mobilizing donor support,
the Government avoided a full scale crisis. But it recognized that it had
a large external debt burden and, as Tunisia's oil reserves are running
out, the resources available to the public sector would diminish. Hence,
the role of the public sector would need to contract in favor of the
private sector. The Government also recognized that economic incentives
were distorted c3nd that the incentive structure would need to change for
an efficient and active private sector to develop. In particular, the
Government would need to make the economy more outward oriented, reduce
administrative controls, reform the tax system, and improve the efficiency
of financial intermediation. In August 1986, it announced a program
prepared along these lines, in dialogue with the Bank and IMF, to
stabilize the economy and lay the basis for sustained growth. A full
description of Tunisia's adjustment objectives is presented in the
document of the VIIth Plan (1987-91) and summarized in the President's
Report for the SAL. (Report No. P-4808-TUN).
3013L



4 -
8.       The commitment of the Government to economic adjustment, despite
difficult political transition problems, has led to substantial support by
the Bank and other donors. The Bank's support has included the program of
adjustment loans listed in para 1. above, based on intensive economic
analysis and policy dialogue. As also noted, the IMF has supported
Tunisia with a Stand-by arrangement for the equivalent of SDR 104 million
(75 percent of quota) and for purchases of: tha equivalent of SDR
115 million under the compensatory financing facility. The IMF Extended
Arrangement approved in July 1988 was for SDR 207 million.
9.       The Government's stabilization measures have reduced the
imbalances in the budget and the external current account and have
established the conditions for carrying on the liberalization program
begun in 1986. The Dinar was devalued 23 per ;nt in nominal terms in
1986, yielding a 17 percent depreciation in real terms over the year.
Wage increases have been tightly restrained. Total investment fell
sharply in 1985 and 1986 to about 23.5 percent of GDP and has remained at
21-22 percent since then. The devaluation and demand restraint caused the
volt'me of imports to fall sharply, and by 1987, it was 18.4 percent below
its 1984 level. Non-oil exports responded strongly to the devaluation;
their 1987 volume exceeded that in 1984 by 33 percent. Remittances from
Tunisians abroad also picked up: in 1987 they were 53 percent above their
1984 level in real terms. As a consequence, the current account deficit
declined to 1.0 percent of GDP in 1987 and the Government deficit, net of
amortization, to 3.4 percent. Inflation over 1985-87 was held to about
7 percent p.a. Nevertheless, external debt (public and publicly
guaranteed), continued to increase.
10.      Exogenous factors considerably affected the economy's performance
and were, on the whole, unfavorable. In 1985, difficulties with Libya led
to the repatriation of 30-35,000 Tunisian workers, thus ending their
remittances and most exports to that country. The dispute has now been
amicably settled. Regional security problems also reduced the number of
tourists substantially, until an amelioration of these problems, aided by
the cheaper Dinar, caused tourism to increase sharply in 1987. The drop
in oil prices caused a big loss of income for Tunisia and accounted for
nearly all of a 14 percent deterioration in the country's terms of trade.
Agriculture ranged between extremes on account of fluctuations in
rainfall. 1985 was a record year, with a cereal harvest 58 percent above
the average of the previous five years, and 1987 was almost as good. But
1986 was an exceptionally poor year and 1988 has been even worse. The
outcome of these conflicting factors has been that GDP grew 5.7 percent in
1985 and 5.8 percent in 1987, but declined 1.6 percenz in 1986. The
average annual growth for the three years was 3.2 percent.
The Economy in 1988
11.      During 1988, the economy was affected by a severe drought and a
locust invasion that together induced a 24% decline in agricultural
production, bringing down GDP growth to 1.5% from 5.82 in 1987. The poor
performance of agriculture and the surge in the international price of
cereals negatively affected the budget deficit that reached 4.4% of GDP.
Because of a relatively good performance on the external accounts allowing
3013L



- 5 -
comfortable levels of imports, the temporary widening of the budget
deficit did not put pressure on prices and inflation remained around 7%.
The external re';ults were obtained in spite of the decline in oil prices
and are traced back to solid growth in revenues from tourism and exports
of manufactures. Both latter developments were supported by a policy of
maintaining a competitive real effective exchange rate. As a result, the
current account was in balance and the additional resources were used to
establish a more comfortable reserve position. The ratio of debt to GDP
was maintained around 67%, while the debt service ratio came to 26%.
Growth induced by a normal agricultural year and a resurgence of
investment should be around 4% in 198).
Stabilization and Adjustment: 1989-91
12.      Despite those favorable developmaents, the challenge for the
macroeconomic program remains considerable and obliges the Government to
tread a narrow path between growth and austerity. Population is
increasing at 2.5 percent p.a., food demand at 4.4X and the labor force is
growing slightly faster than population because of its age structure.
Economic growth must be adequate to allow income per capita to grow and
prevent unemployment from ineveasing. The external constraint will be
tight in the coming years since the debt service ratio will remain around
26 percent, while oil extraction is expected to decline by 5 percent
annually, making Tunisia a net oil importer in the early 1990's. The
budgetary constraint is tight as well; servicing of debt on government
account is projected to reach 9 percent of GDP by 1991, when budgetary
revenues from oil will have declined to 3 percent of GDP, from a peak of
8 percent in 1982. kn the other hand, overall balance of payments trends
and Tunisia's reserve position are such that prudent macroeconomic policy
can maintain external equilibrium and there are good prospects for
obtaining substantial private foreign financing and investment in the
1990s. Tunisia's policies can be viewed as a systematic preparation for
attracting such capital.
13.      Economic growth.  Bank staff analysis indicates that Tunisia's
growth targets can be met. GDP growth in 1989-91 is projected to average
4.2 percent annually. In agriculture, recovery from the 1988 drought will
result in a high rate of growth, 9.7 percent p.a. in 1989-91, but output
will not reach the level of the trend set by the years 1980-87. Exports
are expected to grow at 3.4 percent p.a., implying a growth rate of
non-oil exports of 7.5 percent a year, a reasonable rate in view of recent
performance. Import growth would be limited to 3.3 percent a year. The
non-interest current account deficit is expected to stabilize close to
zero and the current account deficit below 3% of GDP. Investment, as a
share of GDP, is projected to stay in the 22-23 percent range.
Consumption would grow at 4.1 percent p.a.
14.      Covernment expenditures.  The lower oil earnings and higher debt
servicing also affect the Government budget, though it is the objective of
the Government to adjust to them not by increasing tax revenues, but by
reducing government expenditures. The increase in the overall deficit has
been acceptable to the Government because of its strong external positica
and the moderate rates of inflation. But Tunisia has the objective of
3013L



- 6 -
reducing the overall deficit to about 22 of GDP in the medium-term.
Revenues are expected to decline from 29.7 percent of GDP in 1988 to
26.4 percent in 1991, including a drop in budgetary revenues from oil of
1.9 percentage points of GDP. Amortization of external debt will increase
from 3.9 percent of GDP in 1987 to 4.1 percent in 1991, though
amortization of internal debt will remain constant at 2.0 percent. Since
the objective is to reduce the overall deficit, net of amortization, to
about 2.3 percent of GDP in 1991, as compared to 4.4 percent in 1988,
total government expenditures, net of amortization, must decline from
34.1 percent to 28.7 percent of GDP. Virtually all of this decline must
result from restraining: a) the operating budget, b) consumer subsidies,
and c) transfers to cover the investments and operating losses of public
enterprises. The latter will be monitored annually as part of a program
of public enterprise reform, to be supported under the proposed PERL.
15.      Adjustment measures.  The program of macroeconomic and sectoral
policy adjustment supported by past adjustment lending aims at creating
conditions for the rapid growth of an efficient private sector and
continuing increase in the outward orientation of the economy. The
program has been designed to establish a suitable structure of incentives
across the economy, for which the Government has defined both specific
objectives tad the phasing to attain them in the medium-term. The process
of public enterprise reform described in Section III is an integral part
of this program. Decontrol of producer prices is expected to be largely
completed by 1991, with the exception of a small number of socially
sensitive items that are subsidized. At present, 55 percent of producer
prices are free, as compared to 6 percent in 1986. Decontrol of
distribution margins has been slower, though some important ones, such as
for fertilizers, have been freed. The Government's objective is to free
at least 50 percent of distribution margins by 1991. Import tariffs bave
been reduced to a maximum of 41 percent, and the objective is to bring the
maximum to 35 percent by 1991. The weighted average tariff was reduced
from 271 in 1986 to 231 in 1988 and is expected to decline further to 21S
by 1991. The Government is also committed to eliminate quantitative
import restrictions, except for a few cases of subsidized or infant
industry products which will benefit from three years of supplementary
protection.
16.      The restraint on expenditures is accompanied by changes in the
tax system, and by measures to diversify the financial sector and increase
competition within it. A value added tax was introduced on July 1, 1988,
to replace a complicated and distorted system of indirect taxes and is
being extended to wholesale trade this year. Even though some excise
taxes will remain for a transition period to avoid loss of revenues, the
efficiency and transparency of indirect taxation will be greatly
improve<.  The multitude of direct taxes are being consolidated into two
simple taxes, one on personal incomes, with a reduced maximum marginal
rate, and the other a flat rate on corporate incomes. The recent
establishment of a money market, on which certificates of deposit and
commercial paper can be traded, will help diversify the financial market.
A program is also being prepared with IFC and UNDP assistance to develop
the capital market over the medium term. Further diversification will
occur as the segmentation of banking is reduced and competition is
3013 L



-7-
encouraged, backed by continued action to limit concessional credits and
special tax exemptions.
17.      Apart from these measures directly affecting incentives, the
Government is reducing the role of the public sector, attempting to
restructure or privatize public enterprises (PEs), and taking a broad
array of actions to address sectoral problems. Public sector investment
is expected to drop below private investment in the coming years, and many
politically motivated projects of doubtful justification are being
dropped. In cases where such proj"cts are too far advanced to be dropped,
many are being cut back. The public sector is withdrawing or allowing
private competition in several activities, such as manufacturing, the
distribution of agricultural inputs, and public transport. Comprehensive
PE restktcturing is being undertaken for PEs of major importance, such as
the phosph.e industry and railways, and some entire PEs or PE activities
are being divested or liquidated e.g. in mining, tourism, construction and
mechanical industries. The proposed Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL),
discussed further below is designed to support these efforts.
18.      Other areas of structural reform underway include better adapting
education and training to economic needs, and improving labor market
legislation; further reforming agricultural support services; and
preparing a cadastre and a program for limiting fragmentation to improve
land management.
19.      Social cos0s of adiustment.  In Tunisia, as in many other
countries a special effort is needed to protect the poor from the initial
adverse effects of adjustment, particularly those stemming from a
reduction in consumer subsidies and from attempts to tackle overmanning in
the previously protected public enterprises. Tunisian unemployment is
officially estimated at about 152 and it is especially severe among the
younger age groups. Unemployment is a long-term problem: because the
labor force is growing even faster than population, it is not expected
that the unemployment rate will diminish significantly during the present
Plan period and, according to longer term projections, it will also remain
high for the following five years. The problem would be worse in the
absence of the adjustment program which reduces the cost of labor relative
to investment. The Government is attempting to reinforce the effects of
these relat!ibs price changes through a number of schemes to promote labor
intensive investment and self-employment. The Government is also
experimenting with schemes to encourage firms to provide apprenticeships
and to attract private investment in training. The underlying problem,
though, is population growth, and the Government is continuing to address
this problem directly through an active family planning program, and
indirectly by changing incentives. The President has endorsed the concept
of the family with three children, and the Social Security Fund has
commenced limiting family allowances to three children rather than four.
Equity and protection of the poorest are major concerns of the I misian
authorities, especially in view of the severe drought in 1988. A number
of steps are being taken to mitigate hardsuip arising from the adjustment
program, and the Bank is and will continue to be supportive of these
measures. The reduction in subsidies will be greatest on items with the
least redistributive effect so as to minimize the cost to the poor. There
are also targeted programs for helping the poor, such as the "Familles
301LSZ



- 8 -
Necessiteuses" and subsidized loans for low-income housing. The social
security and health care systems are well developed, though both need
strengthening. The Bank is supporting a study of the social security
system to determine how to ensure long-term financial viability, while
keeping down contributions by workers. employers, and the State. Medical
care is widely available at nominal charges, but the health system'a
further development requires that a more substantial share of costs be
recovered through service charges, with exemptions for the poor. The Bank
will support the Government's efforts to develop and implement a suitable
policy through sector work and through a Health and Population Project
under preparation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background
20.      Lending.  Since 1962, IDA has committed 10 credits to Tunisia
amounting to US$75.2 million, and the Bank has committed 81 loans
amounting to US$2,112.0 million, both net of cancellations. Project
implementation is generally satisfactory, and important policy changes and
institutional improvements have been achieved. Disbursement delays have
particularly affected education, technical assistance, health, and urban
projects due to project-specific problems. These are being addressed
throtgh supervision missions and sector discussions.
21.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure, social development and, more recently, agriculture and
industry. As of May 31, 1989 the sector share of the Bank Group
commitments was as follows: agriculture 24 percent; industry 21 percent;
transport 15 percent; urban 18 percent; energy 7 percent; human resources
8 percent; and non-sector lending 7 percent.
22.      Bank Experience with Adjustment Lending.  Adjustment lending to
Tunisia started in FY87. A first Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL, Loan 2754-TUN), approved by the Board in September 1986, supported
the Government's sector reform program and focused on prices, public
investment, and support services. An Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL, Loan 2781-TUN), approved by the Board in January
1987, focused mainly on import tariffs and price decontrol. Approval of a
Structural Adjustment Loan (loan 2962-TUN) followed in June 1988. A
Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II) was approved in June
1989. Each of these loans was integrated into the Government's
macroeconomic adjustment program.
23.      Performance under the ASAL-I has been satisfactory, (Annex III).
Of the nine original conditions of effectiveness which included an
exchange rate adjustment, first round increases in agricultural producer
prices and reductions in input subsidies, seven were fulfilled by Board
presentation and the remaining two were met on time. A second round of
price adjustments, subsidy reductions and interest rate increases, as well
as other important measures, were taken as conditions of second trancht
3013L



- 9 -
release. The status of the key actions attached to the sector policy
letter was also found to be satisfactory at the time of second tranche
release, except for the implementation of an agricultural export promotion
strategy which took longer than expected to complete, but which is now
finished. The loan is fully committed and some US$108 million of the
US$150 million loan have been disbursed, as well as US$21.0 million of
German (KfW) and Dutch cofinanciers' funds totalling US$24.5 million.
Following a satisfactory review of the overall implementation of ASAL-I,
including both its macroeconomic and sectoral components, the second
tranche of US$50 million was declared open for disbursement in October
1987 and the Board was so informed. The loan will close on June 30, 1989,
following an extension of a year from the original closing date.
24.      Implementation of the ITPAL has also been satisfactory (Annex
III). The price and trade liberalization measures have been implemented
on schedule, and a new investment code satisfactory to the Bank was
promulgated. There were some delays in the design of fiscal reform and of
an improved system for foreign exchange risk coverage. After agreement
was reached on the design of these measures, their implementation,
including introduction of a VAT, the nature of which has been discussed in
detail with the Bank, was supported under the SAL. Disbursements under
ITPAL experienced some delays associated with the political uncertainties
prevailing in Tunisia in 1987. The sluggishness of private investment,
due to weak domestic demand, also caused disbursements to lag. These
difficulties are now solved and disbursements have accelerated in recent
months. As of the end of May 1989, about US$106.0 million out of the
US$150 million loan had been disbursed. The second tranche of the loan
was released in January 1389.
25.      As a result of the actions taken under ASAL-I and ITPAL, the
process of removing the macroeconomic and intersectoral obstacles to
improved agricultural and industrial performance has started. The
devaluation of 17% in real terms by the end of 1986 helped reduce the bias
against exports and raise the price of imported relative to domestic
products. The lowering of tariff barriers for domestic industry coupled
with first and second round increases in Government support prices for
cereals has begun to reduce the difference in protection between industry
and agriculture. The reduction in agricultural input and credit subsidies
under ASAL-I have also opened the door to a liberalization of the domestic
market for agricultural inputs, finance and services.
26.      The SAL supports the Government's medium-term macroeconomic
program and its measures to liberalize trade, decontrol prices, increase
the efficiency of financial intermediation, and reform taxation (Annex
III). The loan became effective in March 1989. The Second ASAL follows
up on the measures undertaken under ASAL-1 and focusses primarily on
further liberalizing the agriculture sector and strengthening essential
Government support services. The proposed Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(PERL) discussed below builds on the macroeconomic reform program and
addresses key areas of reform necessitated by this macroeconomic program.
This loan would support efforts, to institute reforms in public enterprise
management, to restructure some major loss-making enterprises, and to
divest assets which can be transferred to the private sector.
3013L



- 10 -
27.      Although fast disbursing adjustment loans account for about
40 percent of Bank lending in the 1987-89 transition period, the strategy
for the 1990s is to shift towards investment lending and to help the
Government improve efficiency in the provision of urban and social
services. An Education and Training Sector Loan was approved by the Board
in May 1989 which supports structural reforms to ensure a better match
between education and training provision and Tunisia's medium-term
development needs, as well as more cost effective and aquitable services.
The planning and delivery of these training systems is being organized in
close collaboration with industrial associations. In addition, an
Employment Conversion Fund project which would support employment
promoting changes in labor markets is currently under preparation.
Projects planned in agriculture include financing of research and
extension activities, credit, and part of the public investment needs of
the VIIlth Plan. Lending for industry and finance is envisaged to improve
the competitiveness of Tunisian industry and support export development.
Operations are planned to finance transport sector maintenance, water
supply, housing finance, municipal development, and health and
population. The Fifth Urban Project approved by the Board in May 1989 is
the first Bank operation focusing on housing finance improvements and will
also assist in the improvement of land management policies. A technical
assistance loan was approved.1by the Board in February 1989 for the
promotion of oil exploration, and is expected to be followed by an energy
project that will assist energy conservation efforts and the efficient
choice of energy sources in the medium-term.
28.      Country Economic and Sector Work.  The Bank's economic and sector
work will continue to provide the macroeconomic and sector knowledge
needed to analyze critical medium and longer term sectoral issues, to
monitor economic performance and maintain a fruitful dialogue with the
Government. The main tasks include a study of the efficiency and
incentive structure of the private sector, and a study of the prospects
and constraints for export development. A study also covering Algeria and
Morocco is planned to assess the prospects for economic integration in the
Maghreb. The Bank is assisting the Government to prepare its strategy for
the health sector, and is completing a study of environmental issues that
will be an input into the Environmental Program for the Mediterranean
being carried out jointly with the European Investment Bank.
29.      Bank Loans Outstanding.  The share of the Bank and IDA in
Tunisia's external medium- and long-term (MLT) public and publicly
guaranteed (PPG) debt outstanding and disbursed was about 18 percent at
the end of 1988, while the share of preferred creditors was 30X. That
year, debt service payments on Bank debt amounted to 17 percent of the
country's public and publicly guaranteed debt service, and the ratio of
debt service on Bank debt to exports was 4.2 percent. Because of the
emphasis on adjustment lending in the period of transition, the share of
the Bank in Tunisia's PPG MLT debt is expected to peak at about 22 percent
and its share in PPG debt service at about 24 percent in the mid-1990s.
The shift towards more traditional investment financing by the Bank that
will start in 1990 and the expected increase in the country's borrowings
from commercial sources will result in a gradual decline of these
indicators.
3013 L



- 11 -
International Finance Corporation
30.      As of March 31, 1989, IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled
US$24.8 million. This financing has benefited the tourism sector, both
through direct intervention in projects and through assistance to
development banks, and the manufacturing sector, particularly in the
chemical, pharmaceutical, construction materials and tex.iles subsectors.
In textiles, IFC is helping to modernize and privatize some state-owned
mills. The Corporation has also invested in the first leasing company in
the country, and in the establishment of a Belgian-Tunisian venture in the
field of engineering services. IFC is also financing, with the UNDP, a
study on the potential for the improvement of Tunisia's capital market.
PART mI - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM AND THE
PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
INTRODUCTION
31.      As already noted, the objectives of the proposed PERL are derived
directly from the Government's overall objective of increasing economic
efficiency by introducing greater reliance on economic incentives and
reducing direct controls on the economy. During the 1970's and early
1980's, the PE sector which accounts for roughly 30X of GDP (see Annex
VII), mirrored the economy wide developments outlined in Part I. First,
during the early 80's, large, slow gestating investments in the fertilizer
industry, cement, sugar, car assembly, a foundry and a steelmill were
undertaken. On the infrastructure side, some large railway investments
were undertaken with little economic justification. Overall, PE
investment represented 57X of total investment in the industrial sector
during the VIth Plan, with the sector's share in total investment in the
economy increasing from 33% in 1983 to nearly 40S by 1985. Second, the
overall increase in indebtedness was mirrored in the Public Enterprises.
A survey of the 40 largest PEs (see Annex VIII) shows a sharp
deterioration in profitability from 1981 (aggregate net profits of TD 39
million) to 1986 (aggregate net loss1- of TD 168 million), with their
total debt increasing from TD 1.67 b.±lion to TD 3.17 billion
(about US$ 3.4 billion at current exchange rates); moreover, the
proportion of short-term debt increased from an already high 511 to 56%.
Third, the liberal increases in the minimum wage through 1984 had direct
repercussions on the wage bills of all PEs; wages and salaries rose from
38% to 451 of value added between 1981 and 1982 for the 40 largest public
enterprises. Finally, the economy wide increase in unemployment
perpetuated the pressure on PEs to generate employment and strengthened
political and social resistance to reducing employment in existing
enterprises where this was technically feasible and financially desirable.
Employment in the PE sector peaked at 174,000 in 1983, accounting for 30%
of total estimated formal sector employment.
32.      The Government's macroeconomic refotm program, which promotes an
outward-oriented strategy of growth, is based on a broad program of trade
3013 L



- 12 -
and price liberalization, removal of foreign and local investment
restrictions, and fiscal and financial sector reforms. Reform of the
labor code, the key remaining component of the liberalization program, is
under active discussion with the Tunisians and is also expected to be
implemented in the coming few years. The implementation of these measures
is radically changing the operating environment of PEs by progressively
liberalizing input and output prices, reducing tariffs and removing
quantitative restrictions, reducing budgetary transfers to PEs and
ensuring that lending to PEs is on commercial terms. The PE reform
program is designed to enable the sector to adapt to these new competitive
conditions by rationalizing state/enterprise institutional and financial
relations and by divesting, restructuring or liquidating PEa as
warranted. Specific measures included in this prcgram are presented
further below. In effect, the Program can be viewed at two levels: first,
svstemwide reforms in the policy and institutional framework governing PEs
and second, the implementation of these reforms at the level of individual
enterprises.
The key areas of PE reforms targetted under the proposed PERL are:
A. S5temwide Reforms
(i) Legal and Institutional reforms;
(ii) Performance contracts and PE management improvements;
(iii) Budgetary and financial reforms.
IL Ptgam  of Divestiture and R
(i) Progressively divest Government holdings in PEs in
competitive areas of the economy;
(ii) Restructure priority PEs in the public sector;
(iii) Address the social costs of divestiture and restructuring.
C. Subsectoral Action Proums for Selected Priwrty PEs
(i) Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG) - the phosphate mines;
(ii) Groupe Chimique - five fertilizer companies.
(iii) Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT) - the
railway;
THE PUBUC ENTERPRISE SECTOR: ISSUES AND ACTIONS
33.      Government strategy for the PE sector.  The Government's overall
objective for the economy is to improve the efficiency of scarce public
and private resource use. Towards this end, its stated objective is to
disengage itself from all PEs in competitive areas of the economy. Viable
PEs in these areas are being transferred to the private sector as quickly
as feasible while non-viable PEs are being liquidated. Public service
monopolies and other PEs which require public sector regulation will
progressively introduce performance contracts which specify both
technical, financial and managerial performance targets and the associated
tariff, pricing or other support to be assured by the Government. These
rerformance contracts are intended to ensure that the PE is maintained on
a 13L



- 13 -
a sustainable financial, managerial and technical basis, using
transparent, objective, quasi-commercial performance criteria to the
extent possible. PEs would thereby be sheltered from arbitrary or
politically motivated State interference which is believed to have been a
primary cause of past poor PE performance.
34.      Government's desire to divest itself of PEs in competitive areas
of the economy is driven primarily by pragmatic, non-ideological
concerns. To support the financial or managerial demands of ailing or
unsuccessful PEs is an inefficient use of scarce budgetary resources.
Moreover, the macroeconomic reform progrim has severely limited Government
expenditures such that Government cannot provide the entrepreneurial and
financial support which efficient and export oriented PEs require to
establish a sound financial structure, acquire new technology, develop new
markets, and to promote efficient employment generation. In light of
budgetary concerns, PE divestiture and restructuring efforts are focussing
not only on PEs which are expected to readily attract private interest, in
order to dynamize the divestiture process and private sector activity, but
also on loss-making PEs which impose a budgetary burden on the State.
35.      The Government is acutely aware that this divestiture process
will be a lengthy one given that there are over 100 enterprises involved
in competitive, non-financial activities in which the State has majority
holdings, that many of these PEs are overstaffed and undercapitalized, and
that the private sector and capital markets are both relatively
undeveloped. Therefore, the Government is also focussing considerable
effort on divesting itself of minority shareholdings either held directly
by the State or through wholUy State-owned PEs. These shareholdings have
little or no strategic or social rationale, but reflect the past pervasive
involvement of the State in the productive sectors which the Tunisian
Government is now determined to reverse. The Government is also focussing
considerable effort on improving the efficiency of enterprises remaining
in the public sector whether over the medium-term, pending divestiture, or
over the longer term. To this end, a series of major institutional
reforms are also underway to strengthen the management autonomy of PEa,
clarify PE/Government relations and place PEs on as close to a
quasi-commercial operating basis as possible.
36.      PE reform has been a recurring concern of the Tunisian
authorities and several attempts to forge such reform have already been
made. Some positive results have been achieved, but the reform efforts to
date have lacked an overall framework and short, medium and longer-term
monitorable objectives were not articulated. The Action Program to be
supported by the proposed PERL is therefore a combination of measures to
define overall PE reform objectives and to identify priority measures to
be undertaken in the near-term. These measures support, and are fully
consistent with, the macroeconomic framework of the Structural Adjustment
Program which is already demonstrating Government's willingness to
recuncile difficult political and economic objectives. First, Systemwide
Legal and Institutional Reforms are intended to change the structure and
operating framework of the sector. Second, reforms or rationalization of
individual enterprises will yield important efficiency improvements for
these enterprises and, in addition, these reforms are expected to have
3013L



- 14-
important sector-wide demonstration effects which will be generalized
through the PE sector over time. The Bank's current lending strategy for
Tunisia envisages an industrial restructuring loan focussing on
competitive and potentially competitive industry in FY92 which will follow
up on the institutional reforms and broaden the industrial restructuring
efforts outlined below.
A  istewmride Reforms
(i) Legal and Institutional Reform
37.      Two key measures are underway which will lay the foundations for
sector-wide PE reforms. First, a new law governing Public Enterprises was
passed by Parliament on February 1, 1989 which: significantly limits the
number of enterprises subject to state controls; greatly simplifies and
clarifies the obligations of PEs which will remain under state
supervision; and introduces a simple, flexible mechanism for the
liquidation, divestiture or restructuring of enterprises. (Key provisions
of this law are outlined in Annex VI). Second, the role of the
Directorate for Public Enterprise (DEP) in the Prime Minister's office is
being strengthened and clarified. It will carry out overall analysis of
the PE sector, make recommendations on overall PE strategy and monitor the
effectiveness and consistency of sector ministry supervision of PEs (use
of performance contracts, strengthened role of Board members, etc.). The
DEP will also provide the Secretariat to the Interministerial Commission
for Restructuring and Divestiture (CAREPP); it will ensure that acceptable
proposals are prepared by enterprises and their sectoral ministries and
will follow-up on the Lmplementation of CAREPP's decisions. The placement
of these functions in the Prime Minister's office underlines the priority
accorded to the PE reform, and ensures that DEP will have the necessary
leverage to operate effectively. However, in line with Government's
overall objective of decentralizing responsibility for PE management and
minimizing State intervention, the DEP will remain a small unit (currently
only six professional staff) and will focus on its overall PE oversight
and secretariat roles. This will ensure that primary PE management
responsibility remains with the PE and that supervision remains primarily
the role of the Board of Directors and the sectoral ministry (tutelle)
concerned. These institutional arrangements will be monitored during
project implementation to ensure that the DEP continues to play a
facilitative role both in monitoring PE performance and in its role as
secretariat to the CAREPP. Government is determined to ensure that the
DEP does not evolve into a further layer of duplicative State
intervention. The above measures, which are discussed further below, are
intended to reduce the role of the state in the PE sector as rapidly as
possible, to strengthen PE autonomy and efficiency, and to introduce
overall coherence and transparency in the treatment of PEs.
38.      Limiting the role and size of the PE sector.  Tunisia's Public
Enterprise Sector dates from independence in 1956. PEs were established:
to enable Tunisia to gain control over key activities in the economy (e.g.
utilities, banking, the media); to exploit the country's natural resources
(phosphates, petroleum, gas); to open up new sectors (tourism, textiles,
automobiles, mechanical/electrical industries); to encourage regional
30' iL



- 15 -
industrial development (Gafsa and Gabes regions); to undertake
large-scale, capital-intensive projects, for which the private sector's
financial capacity was judged inadequate (cement, oil refining); and to
pursue various socio-economic objectives such as job creation, training,
export promotion, and a more equitable income distribution. The
definition of what constitutes a Public Enterprise has undergone several
revisions in recent years. A 1985 PE Law reduced the number of PEs under
Government supervision from 500 to roughly 300, by redefining PEs as those
enterprises in which the State held 34% or more of the shares (formerly
10S). This still proved too burdensome for effective oversight. Under
the new legislation approved February 1, 1989, only those enterprises in
which the State holds in excess of 50X of the shares either directly or
through wholly-owned State subsidiaries, will be governed by the PE law.
All other enterprises with Government participation are governed by the
commercial code. This is an important reform which reduces the number of
PEs under Government supervision by about one-third, to 200. In addition,
the authorities intend to limit the establishment of any new PE or joint
venture involving State participation to an exceptional basis, after full
economic and financial justification and when appropriate private
participation cannot be secured. This intention is reflected in the
letter of Sectoral Development Policy, in Annex IV.
39.      The 200 enterprises which remain under direct Government
supervision under the new law cover all sectors of the economy and
include: 15 financial institutions (banks, insurance companies, pension
funds); appproximately 125 commercial/industrial enterprises intended to
operate on a fully commercial basis; and roughly 65 other "etablissements
publics" with a mix of commercial activities and non-revenue generating
public policy functions. The Government recognizes the importance of
maintainint a meaningful data base on the PE sector to facilitate PE
performance monitoring and evaluation. In this context, the DEP has
recently collected annual audited financial statements for virtually all
PEs for fiscal years 1986 and 1987. Aggregate 1987 figures, as well as
key indicators for 50 major PEs, are set out in Annex IX.
Action sought under the PERL: During PRRL implementation, the DEP will
continue to prepare annual economic/financial data by PE, based on
year-end audited financial statements, for Bank review. Progress in this
regard will be monitored prior to second tranche release.
40.      Simplifying Government/PE Relations.  The Government's objective
is to shift from ex-ante control for individual PE decisions to ex-post
evaluation of performance based on specific enterprise objectives and
performance targets set out in performance contracts to be signed with the
Government (see below). In the past, Government oversight of PEs has been
ponderous and ineffective. PE Board members have been inexperienced and
unable to fulfill their required role. Government technical and financial
controllers have had potentially crippling veto powers on day-to-day
operations of PEs. Furthermore, performance contracts, though legally
required were virtually non-existent. To address this situation, the new
law which is now being enacted governing the PE sector:
301 3L



- 16 -
(i)    Specifies the roles and responsibilities of PE Boards of
Directors, the sectoral "tutelle" ministries and reporting
requirements of the PE;
(ii)    Requires the preparation and implementation of three-year
performance contracts, specifying the respective obligations
of the PE and the Government.
(iii)    Abolishes the financial and technical controllers of PEs
which were charged with ex-ante control of individual PE
management decisions;
(iv)    Establishes a new group of experienced and specialized
"contr8leurs d'Etat" in the Ministry of Finance, to monitor
PE compliance with State laws (e.g. procurement) and
supervise overall financial management. This will shift the
monitoring process from ex-ante interference in individual
PE management decisions to ensuring that the necessary
systems are in place for satisfactory PE management and
accountability;
(v)    Simplifies the procurement regulations most notably by
raising the thresholds of bids requiring clearance by an
interministerial commission from TD 1 million to TD 5
million, and abolition of an intermediate review procedure;
and
(vi)    Streamlines the procedures for PE restructuring, divestiture
or liquidation. Each proposal is prepared by the PE in
consultation with its sectoral ministry and submitted to the
CAREPP for review. The CAREPP forwards its recommendations
to the Prime Minister for a final decision. Implementation
of decisions is the responsibility of the PE; the DEP, as
secretariat to the CAREPP, monitors progress.
41.      In short, the new legislation is aimed at: streamlining
Government/PE relations; increasing managerial autonomy in day-to-day
operations; ensuring that PE Boards play a meaningful role in establishing
and approving enterprise objectives and strategy and supervising
management; and ensuring satisfactory ex-post evaluation by the Government
of PE performance vis-a-vis clearly-defined and agreed enterprise
objectives and performance targets. Several concrete measures have
already been implemented. The DEP has established a system to monitor the
functioning of PE Boards of Directors. In addition, some ministries have
initiated steps to strengthen the calibre of Boards of Directors for
selected major PEs. The Government has also scheduled a training program
for ministry officials, PE managers and auditors to ensure full
understanding of the requirements and application of the new law. All
essential decrees for the application of the new law have been issued.
301 SL



- 17 -
Action sou8ht *mder the PERL: Prior to release of the second tranche, the
Bank will review with the Government the impact of the new legislation on
a selected group of PEs i.e. facilitation of procurement, relaxation of
Government involvement in day-to-day management of the PE, effectiveness
of Boards of Directors, progress in preparing performance contracts. The
Government will discuss progress on the application of the law with the
Bank prior to second tranche release.
(ii) Introduction of performance contracts and management improvements
42.      As noted above, the new legislation envisages the preparation and
implementation of rolling three-year performance contracts, specifying the
respective obligations of the enterprise (in terms of performance targets,
etc.) and the Government (tariff approvals, investment financing,
compensation for public policy activities, etc.). Because of the
reciprocal nature of a performance contract, such documents are only
appropriate for rublic enterprises furnishing a public service, receiving
Govermnzent direct financial support or governed by price controls or
tariffs. While all PEs meeting these criteria are now required by law to
prepsre performance contracts, the Government recognizes that it will take
some time to introduce meaningful performance contracts in most
enterprises, given the limitations of existing cost accounting and
anagerial systems and the lack of clarity concerning many PEs' objectives
and their medium-term strategy. Experience elsewhere has demonstrated
that key success factors for performance contracts are: (i) that the
initial contracts be relatively simple, concise, clear documents with a
limited number of monitorable performance targets (greater precision can
be added in subsequent versions); and (ii) that performance contracts
focus initially on a small number of key PEs. In light of this
experience, the DEP has prepared a simple, mainly quantitative prototype
as a guide to PEs in the preparation of their performance contracts. The
Government is initially focussing on the preparation of performance
contracts for a small number of PEs which have been in severe financial
and managerial difficulty in recent years and have been receiving
significant budgetary support: (i) the phosphate mining company -
Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG); (ii) the railway - Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT); and (iii) the Tunis bus
company - Societ6 Nationale de Transport (SNT). The latter was chosen
both because of its particular managerial and financial difficulties and
in light of the demonstration effect which a performance contract for one
public bus company can have for these companies throughout Tunisia.
Together, these PEs reported aggregate losses of TD227 million from
1985-87 and received Government budgetary transfers totalling almost TD215
million. Draft performance contracts have been prepared for these three
companies. The expected content of CPG's and SNCFT's performance
contracts is outlined in Section C below; SNT is discussed in Annex XXV.
In light of the uncertainties governing the Groupe Chimique's ownership
and organizational structure and the fact that its present financial
condition reflects international pricing conditions and lack of timely
action by shareholders, performance contracts are not considered
appropriate for these companies. Once their corporate structure is
clarified, they will prepare business plans for their shareholders, in
line with normal commercial practices.
3013L



- 18 -
Actions sought under the PERL:
-    as a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government will
submit to the Bank draft performance contracts for CPG,
SNCFT and SNT approved by the responsible sectoral ministry
and whose principal elements are acceptable to the Bank,
pri.or to their approval by the CAREPP;
-    approval by the CAREPP, signature by the responsible
sectoral ministry and initiation of key actions highlighted
in the performance contracts for CPG, SNCFT and SNT will be
a condition of second tranche release;
-    preparation and signature of performance contracts for an
agreed group of additional PEs in 1990 will be a condition
of second tranche release. These PEs have been selected
from among those enterprises (apart from CPG, SNCFT and SNT)
currently receiving substantial levels of budgetary
transfers.
43.      It is recognized that many PEs require technical assistance (TA)
to introduce imprevements in their financial az4 operational data, cost
accounting, budgeting, management information systems and internal
controls, as a pre-condition for meaningful performance contract
preparation. The DEP has undertaken a preliminary diagnostic survey of
several major PEs to identify existing weaknesses in these areas and
technical assistance requirements to introduce the necessary
improvements. Most of these technical assistance requirements can be
provided by local management consultants and accountants, though teaming
with international specialists may be desirable in a few enterprises to
provide sectoral/technical expertise in some highly specialized areas.
Following consultation with the Bank, the Japanese Trust Fund is
considering an allocation of Y270 million, (about $2 million) to finance
these requirements.
Action sought under the PERL: Progress on the preparation of terms of
reference and call for bids for technical assistance for each PE hiring
consultants necessary for the implementation of the techiAcal assistance
program will be reviewed prior to second tranche release.
44.      In the past, many PEs also suffered from excessive turnover of
Company Presidents (PDGs), which often reflected political
considerations. Political factors appear less likely to govern future
appointments following the political changes in Tunisia of late 1987 and
appointments since that date have been dictated by merit and efficiency
criteria. The new emphasis on the introduction of multi-year explicit
performance objectives and commitments for PEs heightens the need for
continuity in PE management. The Government is conscious of this factor
and the letter of Sectoral Development Policy indicates that the
appointment of PDGs will be based on professional competence and give due
weight to continuity.
45.      Another important determinant of past PE management and
oerformance weaknesses has been their inflexible hiring and remuneration
,3013 L



- 19 -
policies. Over the last three years, many PEs have had hiring freezes in
effect, i.e. staffing reductions after natural attrition, and most have
had wage freezes since 1985. Nevertheless, management flexibility in this
regard is closely circumscribed since most PEs are governed by collective
wage agreements and, in the past, have been subject to substantial
political pressure to increase employment. PE managers are eager to see
the lack of flexibility in the wage structure addressed, but since
"acquired rights" are vehemently protected in the typical PE, it is clear
that these contracts can only be changed gradually. While overall labor
legislation reforms are under consideration, these reforms are unlikely to
supercede existing contracts of PE workers. Government has begun
productivity studies which will provide a basis for establishing
productivity linked wage systems at least for some major PEs. This
approach seems to be accepted in principle by many PEs and therefore
provides a basis for a modest new departure in wage negotiations. Thus,
in light of its complex and highly sensitive nature, the PERL will not
address this issue at a global level. However, increased labor
flexibility is envisaged in the context of the performance contract
process.
(iii) Budgetary and Financial Reforms
46.      As already noted, the Government provides financial support to a
large number of PEs in the form of operating subsidies, investment
subsidies, debt/equity conversions and compensation for certain "social
tariffs" (e.g. students' public transportation). Budgetary support
(through "titre II" transfers in the Government's annual development
budget) to PEs averaged TD 388 million over the last five years
(1983-88). In addition to these budgetary transfers, PEs receive
substantial extra-budgetary financial support (direct and indirect) in the
form of extra-budgetary short-term Treasury Loans, subsidies from Special
Treasury Funds and Government-guaranteed loans (see Annex X). One
objective of the PE reform program is to ensure that all Government
financial support to PEs is fully transparent. While individual
enterprise d&ta on Government transfers are readily available, other
Government financial support (direct or indirect) e.g. loan guarantees,
transfers from compensation accounts and other special funds are not
currently tabulated to permit a complete picture of the total level of
Government support to each PE. Moreover, PE requests for Governme-t
financing have rarely been supported with corporate/restructuring plans
setting out the company's financial and market prospects. One objective
of the reform program is to progressively ensure that all significant
Government financial support is based on performance contracts or
restructuring programs (approved by the CAREPP) demonstrating medium-term
viability and incorporating the necessary restructuring measures. In this
context, as noted above, the initial focus for the preparation of
performance contracts will be on those PEs currently receiving the highest
levels of budgetary transfers. A second objective is to progressively
reduce Government transfers to the PE sector and ensure increasing
financial self-sufficiency. Targets for a phased reduction in aggregate
PE budgetary transfers were agreed with the Bank and are being monitored
under the Structural Adjustment Loan. In the near-term, restructuring
vroframs may require increased transfers to selected PEs, e.g. for
ol L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 20 -
recapitalization, but such support will be temporary and only allocated if
sustainable medium-term viability is demonstrated.
Action sought under the PERL: To ensure greater transparency of
Government support for PEs, during PERL implementation, the Government
will prepare an annual table of all budgetary and extra-budgetary
transfers and loan guarantees for each PE.
47.      For those PEs relying on Government tariff approvals, performance
has been mixed. STEG, the electricity company, has had four Bank loans
and is the only PE with a signed performance contract. The terms for
tariff setting, and compliance are generally satisfactory. However, ONAS,
the sewage treatment agency is currently not in full compliance with
tariff and financial performance agreements with the Bank, and corrective
measures are under discussion. SONEDE, the water distribution company is
also having difficulty complying with its tariff agreement with the Bank
due in part to the impact of foreign exchange losses on its accounts.
Measures to strengthen compliance are also under discussion for this
utility. Satisfactory progress on the implementation of existing PE
tariff agreements with the Bank is being monitored under existing loan
agreements with these companies. Railway tariffs are discussed in the
subsectoral restructuring section below.
48.      Unlike several other countries, the problem of arrears between
P>s is not widespread in Tunisia. Generally, the Government regularizes
major cross-PE arrears on an annual basis through budgetary transfers.
Major cross-debts have centered on CPG's arrears with SNCFT for transport
of phosphates and this in turn has created a chaIn of arrears with the
petroleum distribution, production and refining PEs. These problems are
being addressed through performance contracts for CPG and SNCFT.
Similarly, financially troubled. PEs have resulted in strains on the
banking sector and most major banks rep2rt arrears or "distress lending"
to PEs. Financial sector credit to PEa has been squeezed in the last year
reflecting the overall credit squeeze and the relatively weak balance
sheets of PEs. The Central Bank is closely monitoring the implications of
PE financial problems for banks and is encouraging more prudent
provisioning of bank loans to PEs. This is a radical departure from the
past when PE loans were regarded by the Links as equivalent to loans to
Government, even in the absence of Government guarantees. The burden
imposed by PEs in difficulty on the banking system and the arrears of
several PEs in severe difficulty are expected to be gradually addressed
through the privatization and restructuring program, (see below).
Action sought under the PERL: To ensure continued monitoring of the
arrears situation during PERL implementation, the Government will provide
to the Bank annual data on major outstanding PE cross-arrears, as part of
the financial data required under para. 46, and measures towards
regularizing any major arrears identified will be discussed prior to
second tranche release.
301 L



- 21 -
B - Divestiture and Restruturg ProgAl
49.      Divestiture Obiectives:  The Government's stated objective is to
progressively divest all PEs operating in competitive areas of the
economy, with a few exceptions such as joint ventures with neighbouring
Governments. In the case of loss-making PEs, the Government's desire to
divest these companies is primarily motivated by immediate budgetary
concerns since once these PEs are transferred to the private sector, even
for a nominal amount, the financial and managerial burden on the
Government is removed. However, Government's interest in disengaging
itself from PEs in competitive areas goes beyond this immediate budgetary
concern; most of these PEs - even if profitable - are severely
undercapitalized, precluding the technological and marketing investments
essential for effective competitiveness in the liberalizing trade
environment. Further Government investments to respond to these needs are
not possible g4ven present budgetary constraints, and Government has been
and will continue to be unable to effectively supervise these PEs and
provide them with the necessary strategic guidance for their efficiency
and growth. While Government recognizes that privatization will not
ensure productive efficiency, it considers the private sector more
competent than the State to manage and finance activities in these areas.
Privatization Process and Progress to date
50.      To date, a pragmatic approach has been used to identify
candidates for privatization, with proposals emanating from the tutelle
ministries or from the PEs. A technical committee of working-level
officials examines the proposals, submitted by the tutelles/PEs, prior to
formal consideration by the CAREPP. The proposals are subsequently
reviewed by the CAREPP, which makes recommendations to the Prime Minister
(PM) for a final decision. This process has been formalized in the new PE
law approved February 1, .989. The DEP serves as secretariat to the
CAUPP. The CAREPP, chaired by the PM, is composed of the ministers (or
their representatives) of Plan, Finance and Social Affairs, and a
representative of the Central Bank.
51.      This decentralized approach (whereby the tutelle ministries and
PEs are responsible for preparing and implementing privatization and
restructuring proposals) is designed to ensure flexibility and pragmatism,
while at the same time ensuring that there is a centralized focal point at
the CAREPP/PM to provide guidance on overall strategy for the program.
The process has been highly satisfactory to date, with a minimum of
duplication of effort and time loss. The Tunisian authorities feel
strongly that it would be impossible and undesirable to centralize the
preparation and implementation of all privatization proposals at the
CAREPP/Prime Ministry. One potential drawback to this decentralized
approach is the possibility that PEsttutelles would resist privatization,
with the result that few attractive PEs/holdings would be proposed for
privatization. In fact, this has not been a problem. A number of
orivatizations have already been completed (primarily hotels, textile
companies and smaller holdings) and the pipeline of proposals under
consideration contains PEs/holdings across several sectors, including a
number of attractive PEs which should be relatively easy to privatize.
3013L



- 22 -
Several large PEs with diverse holdings (often in activities unrelated to
their main business) are currently preparing proposals to divest their
portfolios. Similarly, with Government encouragement, several commercial
and development banks (with varying levels of Government ownership) are
proceeding with the privatization of their PE holdings. PDGs have been
directed by their ministers to proceed expeditiously with privatization,
on the understanding that their careers would be enhanced with successful
results.
52.      The initial emphasis of the divestiture program has been on
PEs/holdings in tourism (hotels), textiles, trade and construction. To
date, some 17 divestiture operations have been completed. Six hotels have
been privatized. SOGITEX, a holding company in the textile sector, has
privatized two of its holdings (SITEX ard SITER) in a phased process
involving, inter alia, equity participation of IFC and foreign technical
partners, as well as the sale of 52 of the shares to the workers (in the
case of SITEX). Recently, following extensive local advertising, three
small subsidiaries of Batiment (a holding company in construction
materials) were auctioned on the Stock Exchange for TD 1.8 million, with
the auction price in one case reaching nearly 602 above the opening price,
and one non-resident buyer. The Government has also liquidated some
non-viable PEs, notably a car assembly plant (STIA) with resulting layoffs
of over 1000 workers, a mechanical workshop (SMMT) with about 600 layoffs
phased over the last five years, and virtually all of SOTEMI's iron ore
mines. Some mergers of PEs/holdings with complementary activities have
also been effected to facilitate privatization in the medium-term. In
addition to these completed operations, decisions have been taken or are
in process to privatize (partially or totally) over 20 other
enterprises/holdings, and implementation is now underway.
53.      Local development banks and accounting firms are assisting the
enterprises in preparing the companies for sale (e.g. valuations, bidding
documents) and with implementing the transactions. USAID has provided for
financing of international technical assistance for more specialized
valuation and market analysis, if required. The DEP plans to issue
guidelines for the preparation of PEs for privatization, which will
elaborate on and clarify the requirements under the new law. The
guidelines are intended to ensure transparency and acceptable
procedures/standards in valuations, bidding documents and evaluation of
offers. At the same time, the Government wants to retain maximum
flexibility and avoid introducing unnecessary constraints in what has been
an extremely pragmatic and effective process to date. These guidelines
are desirable in the medium-term - as the privatization program becomes
more widespread - in order to maximize public credibility. The
preparation of these guidelines will be facilitated by the experience
gained through ongoing privatizations which are continually broadening the
options being considered and applied.
54.      The level of investor interest and domestic liquidity appear
conducive to continued success of the privatization program, provided the
Government continues to offer attractive candidates which are
realistically priced. Recent discussions with private entrepreneurs
indicate that the candidates in which they are most interested in
301 3L



- 23 -
investing are generally those which the Government is working to privatize
as priority candidates. Some recent improvements are evident in the
overall investment climate. In addition to the macroeconomic reforms and
trade liberalization now underway, a new liberal investment code conducive
to foreign investment was promulgated in 1987. The new PE law also sets
out a number of special incentives to enable small shareholders, PE
employees and potential investors to purchase shares in privatized PEs.
The Stock Exchange, while relatively undeveloped, is being strengthened
under an IFC/UNDP technical assistance program. Moreover, a recent survey
by a local bank indicates that there is approximately TD 3 billion in
interest-earning deposits in Tunisian banks. If even a small portion of
these funds (eg: 5X or TD 1S0 million) could be tapped for privatization,
this would easily exceed the expected equity financing requirements of the
privatization program over the next two years.
55.      The expected pace of the privatization program is difficult to
gauge. Completed transactions to date have yielded roughly TD 50 million
in gross proceeds ranging from large hotel sales with gross revenues of
over TD 12 million each to small workshops sold for less than TD 1 million
each. The pipeline of PEs/holdings being examined for privatization is
substantial; however, it is not possible to forecast with any degree of
precision either the timing or value of future privatization transactions,
given that these are sub-c't to negotiation with investors. Based on the
results to date and the pipeline of potential candidates, it is expected
that a further 10 PEs or holdings can be offered for sale annually (i.e.
decisions taken, valuations completed, and bids invited), but the
authorities are rightly unwilling to commit themselves to this or any
specific number of privatizations given the uncertainties entailed in the
process. In light of the above, Bank monitoring of privatization,
progress will have to be essentially qualitative in nature. The Tunisian
authorities have indicated that: a) candidates known to be attractive to
the private sector will be proposed for privatization as a priority; b)
the candidates proposed for privatization will include some which do not
require Government financial support for debt write-offs or lay-offs of
workers; c) privatization offerings will continue to span a wide range of
asset size and will neither be limited to very large or very small
holdings; and d) that privatization decisions will be implemented as
expeditiously as possible once a Prime ministerial decision is taken. The
above criteria are wholly consistent with the practices of the CAREPP/DEP
in the past year. Continued application of these criteria will be
monitored under the PERL.
Actions sought under the PERL:
-     As conditions of effectiveness, Government will bring to
salc (i.e. completion of valuations, bidding documents and
bid invitations) a group of PEs/holdings selected on the
basis of the criteria indicated above, satisfactory to the
Bank; and submit to the Bank for review a program
satisfactory to the Bank for a further group of candidates
(PEs or holdings) proposed for subsequent privatization.
-     As a condition of Second Tranche Release, Government will
bring to sale a further group of PEs, based on the criteria
indicated above.
30 13 L



- 24 -
56.      Public Enterprise Fund.  Many potential PE candidates for full or
partial privatization are burdened with excess staffing and excessive
indebtness. In many cases, privatization or restructuring will require
layoffs (with associated severance pay) and settlement of some or all
outstanding liabilities. A special Fund was established in 1985/86 to
assist with financing the costs associated with these privatization and
restructuring efforts. The Fund was initially financed with TD 4.3
million, and was to be augmented with the surplus proceeds from the sale
of PEs as well as transfers from the Government's annual Budget. In fact,
the Fund is virtually depleted and replenishment has not been possible,
either through budgetary transfers (due to budget constraints) or from the
proceeds of privatizations to date (since no surplus has been realized on
a consolidated basis).
57.      The absence of adequate Government funding to finance these costs
now poses a serious obstacle to further successful privatization and
restructuring. A preliminary survey of about 20 PEs currently being
considered for possible privatization shows potential liabilities
totalling TD 216 million, including TD 16.5 million in expected severance
pay, TD 8.8 million in pension liabilities, TD 87 million in debts
outstanding to Government (which will likely be written off) and TD 104
million in third-party debts to commercial banks, suppliers, etc. In
addition to these liabilities associated with PEs envisaged for
privatization, a preliminary survey of 13 priority PEs being restructured
shows outstanding liabilities in excess of TD 200 million including about
TD 15 million in severance pay for workforce reductions, TD 5.5 million in
pension liabilities, TD 66 million in debts outstanding to Government and
TD 113 million due to third-parties e.g. banks, suppliers etc. This total
excludes any fresh capital requirements of these companies. While some
writedowns of the outstanding debts can be negotiated with creditors, some
significant payment of liabilities will be necessary, first to avoid
protracted bankruptcy proceedings, second to reflect the past explicit or
implicit understanding of bankers and suppliers that PE liabilities were
liabilities of the Government, and finally to mitigate the negative impact
of these liquidations on the banking and commercial sectors. The costs
outlined above are necessarily indicative since: (a) they relate only to a
portion of the PE portfolio; (b) they do not include debt write downs
following negotiations; (c) not all of these PEs will be privatized or
restructured in the coming 2-3 years; and (d) no allowance is made for the
net revenues from the PE sales. Nevertheless, these data serve to
underline the need for significant funding of the program.
58.      Government budgetary support required to privatize some PEs in
financial difficulty is considered legitimate and cost-effective, since
these expenditures represent once-and-for-all payments of Government
obligations which absolve the State of any future commitments. While most
of the PEs envisaged for early privatization do not receive ongoing
budgetary transfers, in general, their excess liabilities reflect their
past under-capitalization and the worker compensation payments reflect
past Government efforts to artificially boost employment. Hence,
Government accepts its financial obligations arising from past policies,
but will seek to minimize these obligations in the interests of economy,
efficiency and equity. A key objective of the PERL will be to ensure that
301 31



- 25 -
adequate financial support is available to facilitate a dynamic, credible
and continous privatization and restructuring program through periodic
replenishment of the Public Enterprise Fund. The Fund is expected to
finance primarily: (i) worker compensation packages in the context of
privatization or restructuring; (ii) residual liabilities associated with
privatization (pension liabilities and unavoidable third-party debts);
(iii) technical assistance for implementing accounting, auditing,
organizational or management improvements in PEs, or for technical or
financial advisors to put together privatization deals; and (iv) in
selected cases, minimal investments essential to successful
privatization. The Fund is intended to serve as a catalyst to facilitate
as many privatizations as possible. In certain cases, it may assist with
financing PE restructuring (rather tban privatization), if: (i) there is a
"dynamic" restructuring of an enterprise's entire operations (production
processes, personnel, management systems, marketing, etc.) to establish
the PE on a financially/managerially sustainable basis, rather than a
limited financial ("bookkeeping") restructuring; and (ii) the
restructuring includes privatization or liquidation of at least part of
the PE's activities/assets. The Letter of Sectoral Development Policy
suummarizes the uses of the Fund outlined above and agreement has been
reached that the Bank will review any Fund expenditures exceeding TD 10
million.
59.      The proposed disbursement profile, timing and amount of each
tranche under the PERL reflects the estimated pace of implementation of
privatization and restructuring measures which require financing of the
associated costs by the Fund. However, the actual pace of privatization
is expected to be somewhat faster, since some PEs to be privatised will
not require financing from the Fund. The first tranche would be released
when the Government has allocated to the Fund an amount at least
equivalent to the tranche release, and when other conditions of
effectiveness are met. The second tranche would be released once at least
half of the first allocation is committed, an additional amount at least
equivalent to the tranche release is allocated to the Fund, and when other
second tranche conditions are satisfied. Unspent and uncommitted
allocations to the Fund will be carried over into the next fiscal year,
without reverting to the Treasury.
C - Subsectoral Action Pograms for piority PEs
60.      As already noted, the Tunisian phosphate mines (CPG), the five
Fertilizer Companies (Groupe Chimique) and the Railways (SNCFT) place very
substantial demands on the Tunisian economy. These PEs also manifest some
or all of the most severe difficulties of any Tunisian PEs, i.e. past
history of extensive overstaffing, uneconomic investment programs,
multiple an;l often incompatible objectives, inadequate Government
financial support, etc. Each of these PEs plays a critical role in the
Tunisian economy. However, their problems are so severe that they can
only be addressed over time. The PERL aims to ensure that this process of
reform commences on a realistic and sustainable basis, that management
responsibility is reasserted, Government/PE relations are clarified and
economically viable and internally consistent objectives are pursued. The
3013Lt



- 26 -
balance of payments support proposed through the PERL has afforded the
necessary leverage to work at the cross-ministerial level essential to
begin the politically and socially difficult restructuring of these key
PEs. Extensive project analysis has been carried out for each PE, and the
restructuring programs proposed address technical, managerial and
financial issues. Details of the enterprise analysis underlying the
conclusions presented below are available in the project files. An
overview of the phosphate and transport sectors, each PE selected, and the
actions sought under the PERL are presented below.
b. Pheosbate Sector
61.      The financial crisis in the fertilizer/phosphate sector reflects
international price developments. Phosphate rock prices have been on a
long-term declining trend from 1965-86 (from $45 to $ 24 per ton in 1985
dollars) except during the 1974-80 commodity boom (high $102 per ton in
1975). Real prices are expected to increase slightly to regain their 1985
real level by 1994 reflecting gradually increasing long run production
costs, but the timing of this price increase is highly uncertain given
existing oversupply of phosphate rock. World market prices for phosphate
fertilizer in 1986 were at their lowest level in real terms in the post
World War II era and were below cash production costs even for efficient
producers. This price decline reflected flat or declining demand for
fertilizer in US and European markets and only modest growth in effective
demand in other markets (see Annex XI). On the supply side, there is
excess capacity in the industry resulting from investments undertaken
during the commodity boom when diammonium phosphate reached $562/ton in
1985 dollars - some 330X higher than its 1986 level. Supply
over-capacity is expected to be absorbed by the early 1990s.
62.      Phosphate production in Tunisia began with the export of
phosphate rock. When world competition made it difficult to trade
Tunisia's low grade rock, in the early '50s, the country embarked on
processing rock locally, and gradually developed a fertilizer industry,
which absorbs about 80X of local raw phosphate. This strategy worked
satisfactorily while phosphate and fertilizer prices were relatively
high. However, in 1982 phosphate and fertilizer prices started to decline
in nominal terms and this decline accelerated with the dollar
devaluation. Raw phosphate mining is comparatively costly in Tunisia.
The phosphate ore is of below average quality, requiring relatively more
complementary inputs (imported sulfur) per ton of final product; mines are
small, numerous, and scattered over a distance of 120 km; most of the
production comes from technologically obsolete underground mines, or from
open cast mines which require substantial stripping for rock extraction;
and the mining area is located 140 km from most of the chemical plants and
from the sea. As a result, Tunisian FOB phosphate cost in 1986-87 was
about US$ 55/ton of P205, as compared to about US$ 47/ton of P205 for cost
efficient competitors (1986-87 world FOB prices were US$ 45 to 50/ton of
P205);
63.      These disadvantages are structural and cannot be eliminated, even
in the long run. Under these conditions, Government believes that
ex  nsion of the phosphate sector would be uneconomic and even future



- 27 -
replacement of existing capacity should only be undertaken after careful
analysis which demonstrates economic and financi-l viability under
conservative future price assumptions. However, in spite of these
structural disadvantages, Bank staff analysis has confirmed that the
continued operation of most existing phosphate and fertilizer producing
units is economically and financially justified because these units cover
their variable costs and are projected to make an increasing contribution
to their fixed costs - principally debt service, which is Government
guaranteed and will be payable whether the companies remain in operation
or not. In light of their major budgetary demands, the Government would
favorably consider any reasonable divestiture proposed for these
companies. However, Tunisia's natural disadvantages in the sector, the
existing world over-capacity, the excessive debt burden of the companies
and the sensitive social environment of the Gafsa area preclude
privatization as a realistic option at this time.
COMPAGNIE DES PHOSPHATES DE GAFSA (CPG)
64.      Background:  The natural disadvantages of Tunisian phosphate mines
haw been compounded by past poor management practices at CPG through the
1970's and early 1980's, which encouraged unnecessary hiring of unskilled
labor, and extensive investment in technically obsolete, but labor intensive
underground mines, rather than in the less labor intensive and more cost
effective open-cast mines. Despite its increasingly high labor costs - the
wage bill went up from 331 in 1980 to 46S of sales revenues in 1984 - the
Company was able to operate with minimal financial support from Government
until 1982. By 1983-84 however, CPG had to face lower prices and stiffer
international competition with 50S excess labor, obsolete technology, severe
debt overhang and weak internal management (until recently PDG turnover at the
Company was extremely high). As a result, Government financial support
reached unsustainable levels during 1983-87, with budgetary allocations
totalling over TD 200 million for the period, (see Annex XII for details on
this budgetary support since 1980). Against this background, starting in
1986, CPG engaged in a comprehensive restructuring program to improve
productivity. Although some progress has been achieved, significant
improvements remain to be implemented *n some critical areas. The Bank has
actively participated in the preparation of a draft performance contract for
CPG, which defines the measures to be implemented, identifies specific
productivity and financial performance targets, and specifies the- level of
financial support to be provided by the Government. The key measures included
in this performance contract are outlined below.
65.      Mining program.  CPG's mining strategy has, in the past, been less
than optimal, mainly because of insufficient planning and of the social and
political implications of implementing a more cost efficient strategy for a
highly unionized, strategically located workforce which produces the raw
material for the country's third largest foreign exchange earner. However,
the company has, in recent years, made some commendable attempts to improve
mine development planning and reduce production costs with Bank support under
the recently completed Mining Technical Assistance Project. Annex XIII gives
a description of key features of CPG's past and future mining strategy and
illustrates the significant decrease of the underground mines' share in total
30131



- 28 -
production from 62% in 1980 to 37S in 1988. Despite these improvements, there
still remain important productivity gains to be achieved. Further expansion
of open-cast mine production would reduce production costs which are three to
four times higher in underground mines (Annex XIV provides comparative cost
data for four illustrative mines). CPG's draft performance contract defines a
least-cost long-term mining plan. The plan will involve the closure of the
most uneconomic underground mines and will bring the share of underground
mines in CPG's production down to 292 by 1991. The draft performance contract
also provides that no further mine development will occur at these three sites
after 1990. The Bank estimates that the mine closures could be completed by
1995.
66.      Investment strategy.  In the late 1970s and early 1980s, CPG incurred
huge investment outlays (about US$ 200 million for 1976-82) which were often
inappropriate and largel.y financed through debt, some of which was in foreign
exchange. CPG's proposed investment program is outlined in Annex XV.
This program has been reviewed in detail with the Bank and is considered the
absolute minimum to ensure the efficient production of the volumes of
phosphate rock required. It will amount to about US$ 80 million over
1989-1993, mostly for maintenance and rehabilitation; parallel financing to
the PERL is being negotiated with the African Development Bank for the foreign
exchange cost of these investments.
67.      Workforce Reduction Program.  To reduce operating costs, CPG has cut
its workforce by 242 from 14000 to 10700, since 1984 (see Annex XVI for staff
evolution since 1980). Although the company could meet its production target
with a workforce of about 7000 under optimal conditions, an immediate staff
reduction to the optimal technical level is not feasible, as the mines supply
30-401 of the employment in the severely disadvantaged arid Gafsa region. The
Government and CPG have developed and begun to implement a staff reduction
program that will bring the workforce down to about 9400 by 1992. The program
Includes an early retirement scheme for 628 workers over the next two years.
A second early retirement program for a further 1000 employees over 1991-92
has been identified by CPG and endorsed by the tutelle. However, in keeping
with previous such programs, this will require approval from other concerned
ministries (e.g. Ministry of Social Affairs) as well as from the powerful
miner's union to avoid major social unrest in the Gafsa region. Government
will give careful consideration to the program and seek the union's agreement
before implementation in 1991. In addition, and to pave the way for the mine
closures, in 1988 CPG established, upon Bank recommendation, a task force
involving key employment agencies to identify training and redeployment
opportunities for excess workers. The task force has identified a further 725
staff for redeployment over 1990-92 for a total estimated cost of TD 7
million. The program is designed to help selected staff in establishing small
businesses in the Gafsa region and has been elaborated and will be implemented
with technical assistan%e from Charbonnage de France. CPG is also planning to
spin off some of its non-critical maintenance facilities to selected workers
on a lease-back basis. The redeployment program will provide technical
expertise and financial assistance in the form of severance packages (about 18
to 30 months of staff salary). Annex XVII provides the planned staff
reductions and the annual estimated costs of the program. These staff
reductions are to be implemented as an integral part of CPG's performance
contract. Severance pay and the cost of the redeployment effort are expected



- 29 -
to be financed through the Public Enterprise Fund, since this workforce
reduction program has been elaborated in the context of the closure of several
mines.
68.      Present and Future Financial Performance.  CPG's cash flow in 1987
was about TD 15.5 million while debt service payments were TD 43.5 million.
Its cash situation became so tight that it had serious difficulties in
financing recurrent operating costs, and the shortage of spare parts inhibited
the efficiency of mining operations. The company experienced significant
improvement in its financial position in 1988 due to a 9% real increase in
phosphate prices in dollar terms. Cash flow increased to about TD 31 million
while debt service amounted to about TD 40 million. Future financial
performance hinges upon the timely implementation of the staff reduction
program and upon future phosphate prices in dollar terms. The latter are
projected to increase annually by 2.5 - 3% in real terms to reflect the
increase in long term costs of production. CPG's forecast key financial
performance indicators over 1988-93 are summarized in Annex XVIII and indicate
that, provided the staff reduction program proceeds as planned and financial
injections of TD 73 million are assured during 1989-93, the company will cover
its working capital needs by 1991 and progressively reestablish a sound
financial structure by 1993. In light of present market trends which suggest
a supply/demand equilibrium by the early 1990's, the above price increases are
considered realistic, however, a sensitivity analysis was carried out to
assess the budgetary implications assuming that phosphate price levels are 32
lower in real terms. The results indicate that financial injections of about
TD 83 million could be necessary to cover working capital needs and a further
TD 52 million to re-establish a sound financial structure by 1993. Financial
performance indicators for the sensitivity case are also shown in annex XVIII.
Actions souRht under the PERL:
-     Submission to the Bank of a draft performance contract for CPG
approved by the sectoral ministry and whose principal elements
are acceptable to the Bank is a condition of PERL effectiveness.
-     Approval of the performance contract by the CAREPP, signature by
CPG and the sectoral ministry, and initiation of key performan:e
measures detailed in the contract, is a condition of second
tranche release of the PERL.
GROUIPE CRHMIQUE
69.        Background.  Groupe Chimique (GC) was created in 1982 to coordinate
the activities of Tunisia's five largest fertilizer companies most of which
were established between 1952 and 1979. The technical performance of the
fertilizer industry in Tunisia has been impressive and the industry was
profitable until the precipitous price declines of the 1980s. Now, after
several years of depressed prices in which the companies were forced to seek
debt financing on extremely unfavorable terms, instead of the recapitalization
which is long overdue, the Groupe's financial situation is critical. The
companies' equity base has been wiped out and, for the first time, GC had to
seek financial assistance from Government to cover its debt service
301 3L



- 30 -
obligations and prevent the accumulation of arrears to suppliers in 1988. The
weak capital structure of GC reflects long standing differences between
foreign and local shareholders -- a situation which Government hopes to
resolve fully in the coming year. Bank staff analysis has confirmed that
continued operation of the fertilizer plants is strongly justified
economically, given that their debts are Government guaranteed and that they
are major foreign exchange earners. However, Bank analysis also concluded
that in order to reestablish a fully creditworthy GC, financial transfers or
recapitalization totalling some TD450-500 million over 4 years would be
required. Clearly, attaining this objective is not feasible except over the
very long term. The Bank has, therefore, helped identify intermediate
objectives which are attainable, albeit with considerable budgetary and
managerial effort, in the next 2-3 years. In this context, the key
restructuring objectives for GC under PERL are: (a) to establish an explicit
agreement on the amounts and timing of Government financial injections to
gradually restore the Groupe's financial equilibrium and ensure that the
massive financial problems of the Groupe do not impose costs on other PE's
(e.g. the phosphate mines) or the banking system through the build-up of
arrears; (b) to reorganize the independent companies into a single enterprise,
thereby, realizing important administrative economies; and (c) to ensure that
the GC and Government address the air and sea pollution problems arising from
the industry. Key aspects of GC's operations are discussed in the paragraphs
below in relation to these objectives.
70.        Management Staffing and Operations.  Most Tunisian fertilizer
producing units are well managed with technically competent staff. The total
workforce is about 5200 and there is no evidence of significant overstaffing.
The companies of the Groupe operate 11 plants in Gabes, Gafsa and the Sfax
area (see Annex XIX for details on plant age and capacity); they use phosphate
produced by CPG and imported sulfur and ammonia to produce a wide range of
fertilizers for the export market. Production facilities are modern and cost
controls are generally effective. Because Tunisian phosphate requires more
sulfur and ammonia per ton of output than other phosphate, the consumption of
these inputs represents up to 801 of operating costs for Tunisian producers
compared to 70-75S elsewhere. Consequently, there is relatively little scope
for technical efficiency gains as controllable costs (personnel and
consumables) represent only 20 S of cash operating costs. However, with Bank
assistance, GC has identified some cost saving opportunities which are being
pursued.
71.        Organization and Ownership Structure.  Although the Tunisian
Government is directly or indirectly the majority shareholder in all five
companies, each has a different ownership structure (see Annex XX). Four of
the companies are 492 owned by Kuwaiti interests while the Abu Dhabi
Investment Fund holds 40. in the fifth one. The diverse ownership structure,
the unwillingness of the foreign partners to recapitalize the Groupe, and the
absence of a strong coordination body constitute major weaknesses for GC.
These have resulted in costly duplication in such areas as maintenance and
Research and Development facilities and in sub-optimal planning of operations
at the Groupe level, as well as prohibitive financial charges. To remedy
these shortcomings, a merger of the four Tuniso-Kuwaiti companies was
envisaged in 1986 and agreed in principle by the shareholders. During
negotiations. the Bank obtained confirmation that final agreement on Kuwaiti
3013L



- 31 -
withdrawal from the four companies has been reached. Effective implementation
of the merger now hinges upon the completion of the statutory and legal
procedures required by Tunisian commercial laws. Similar agreements are being
sought from the Abu Dhabi shareholders with whom Government has started
negotiating. Successful conclusion of these actions will facilitate a
reorganization of sectoral operations, which are currently being reviewed in
the context of the preparation of a long-term development strategy for the
phosphate sector.
Action souaht under the PERL: Preparation of specific measures envisaged to
rationalize the Groupe's organization and operations and satisfactory progress
on the implementation of the proposed merger will be reviewed prior to second
tranche release.
72.        Past and Future Investment Strategy.  During the 1975-1978 price
boom, GC engaged in a large capacity expansion; a policy that was pursued
through the mid 1980s despite the price slump (a new 330,000 ton
superphosphoric acid plant came on stream in 1987). These untimely
investments led the companies to contract substantial amounts of debt - most
of which is in foreign exchange. Government recognizes that future capacity
expansions should only be undertaken based on a careful assessment of the
financial and economic viability of these investments under conservative price
assumptions.
73.        Past and Future Financial Performance.  GC's past and future key
financial performance indicators are sunmarized in Annex XXI. GC was quite
profitable until the early 1980s; however, because of the supply imbalance on
the international marke.s and the significant drop in phosphate fertilizer
prices between 1975 and 1987, the Tunisian companies which were marginal
producers even at the 1975 prices, incurred massive losses (cumulative losses
amounted to TD 287 million in 1987). These were repeatedly financed through
debt, often short term and sometimes in foreign exchange, and as a result the
comp&nies are now in a critical financial situation. Interest expenses on
short-term loans amounted to 11% of sales revenues in 1987 and 7X in 1988.
Bank price forecasts anticipate steady increases in fertilizer prices in real
terms over 1989-1991 of about 11 - 12% for GC's main products which will,
however, be partially offset by proportional increases in the prices of the
main inputs (e.g. phosphate, sulfur and ammonia). Given GC's present debt
overburden, the projected net cash flow after debt service will be
insufficient to adequately cover its working capital needs. The Groupe will
therefore require substantial financial assistance from its shareholders in
the next three years. Since the financial injections necessary to reestablish
a creditworthy GC far exceed the budgetary resources available, the Groupe's
financial rehabilitation can only be envisaged as a gradual process.
Action sought under the PERL: A satisfactory financial rehabilitation plan
for 1990-91, that will help reduce short-term debt financing and prevent
future accumulation of arrears to suppliers will be prepared and discussed
with the Bank prior to second tranche release. Bank financial forecasts
indicate that additional financing of about TD 127 million in 1990, TD 60
million in 1991 and TD 52 million in 1992, will be necessary to avoid further
deterioration of GC's financial situation.
3013L



- 32 -
74.        Pollution.  GC's operations have created acute envircnmental
problems, particularly in Gabes and Sfax, which are urgently in need of
resolution. Tons of phosphogypsum are discharged daily into the sea while
sulfur dioxide effluents (S02) permeate the air in both cities. Government
recognizes the urgency of the situation and has already taken important steps
toward resolving these issues, including the closure, last November, of the
sulfuric acid unit located in the center of Sfax, and the implementation of
some technical alterations to the existing facilities to appropriately dispose
of the gypsum on land. In Gabes, the problem is most pressing because of the
large number of plants. A detailed feasibility study for the gypsum disposal
has been completed and GC has invited bids for the construction of a discharge
conveyor on land. Pre-feasibility studies to address the S02 issues are
underway. During negotiations, Government confirmed its commitment to GC's
environment protection program and indicated that the S02 and gypsum
investments will be implemented once concessional financing is secured.
Action sought under the PERL: Government will ensure implementation of the
gypsum and sulfur dioxide investments based on satisfactory environmental
standards. Progress on implementing GC's environmental protection program
will be reviewed prior to second tranche release.
75.        Phosphate Transfer Price.  Since eighty percent of CPG's phosphate
production is transformed locally by Groupe Chimique the transfer price
between the two companies is critical to the financial performance of both
PEs. In the past, the international price appropriately adjusted to reflect
the quality of Tunisian phosphates has provided a transparent market basis for
this price. However, this formula lapsed last year and external shareholders
in GC have applied extreme pressure to obtain a more favorable transfer
price. To date the authorities have resisted this pressure. In keeping with
the objectives of maximizing the commercial orientation of PE's, the PERL will
monitor this transfer price to ensure that it continues to be based on
objective criteria. Signature of a new convention is not foreseen until
agreement is reached between the Tunisians and the remaining foreign
shareholders on the overall financial restructuring of the Groupe. However,
Government indicated, during negotiations, that the transitional pricing
formula for 1989 would continue to be based on CPG's export price,
appropriately adjusted for the poorer quality delivered to the Groupe.
Action sought under the PERL: An appropriate transfer price convention is
expected to be signed in 1990.
Trnspot Set  Pocy
76.        Faced with rising budgetary demands from the transport sector and
increasing evidence of inefficiencies and incompatibility of objectives, the
Tunisian authorities have recently begun to focus subst-antial attention on
clarifying their role in this sector.  The Government's effort toward domestic
transport ratinnalization hinges on the following key elements of the new
transport policy: (i) ensuring that transport pricing reflects long-term
marginal costs in an increasingly competitive environment; (ii) enhancing
financial transparency of the sector by improving cost-accounting practices,
and establishing the application of economically sound principles for the
calculation of the compensation for services provided below cost, including
3013L



- 33 -
Government subsidized social services; and (iii) gradual withdrawal of
Government from the provision of road freight services, and promotion of
road/rail competition in inter-regional transport.
77.        The implications of this new transport sector policy are profound
and widespread. Already the national transportation company for freight has
been restructured as a competitive operation, and has been offered for sale to
the private sector. Major barriers to private entrepreneurs' entry into the
road transport industry are being removed. The Ministry of Transport is in
the process of concluding an agreement with two private companies to service
about a dozen bus routes in Tunis. The Government now considers that all
social services imposed on the transport companies by Government policy must
be reimbursed at full economic cost. Finally, there is a greatly increased
awareness of the short, medium and long-term costs of uneconomic transport
infrastructure investments. The Ministry of Transport is significantly
reinforcing its Planning Unit to enable this unit to assure coherent,
objective evaluation of new project proposals. This is especially important
as Tunisia begins preparation for the VIlIth Plan for 1992-96.
78.        However, transportation companies are well known throughout the
world for the difficulties entailed in enterprise restructuring especially at
the political and social level. Tunisia is no exception, but the approach
being undertaken is to commence a program of reform which over time, on a
quantifiable basis, will yield tangible efficiency gains. The introduction of
performance contracts is the tool which will establish the transparency of
objectives and reciprocal obligations. The national railway company has been
identified as the priority enterprise to introduce such a performance contract
in the near-term, since it is a monopoly which will continue to require
Government regulation, it carries out important public service functions, it
must undergo an important reorientation of its activities in light of the
overall liberalization of the transport sector, and it is the largest company
in the sector which requires substantial budgetary support.
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER TUNISENYS (SNCF1)
79.        Background.  Although the railways' main justification in the
Tunisian economy is in bulk traffic transportation (phosphate, iron ore and
cereals), general cargo and passenger (main line and suburban traffic) still
account for 162 and 111 of total traffic in the country, respectively. The
railways' participation in passenger traffic reflects the fact that tariffs
have been maintained artificially low to enable the railway to compete with
road transport in market segments where the latter has clear comparative
advantages. SNCFT's past investments (ranging from TD 30 to 60 million per
year) have been heavily biased in favor of uneconomic passenger services, and
this pattern has persisted in the VIIth Plan. Bulk traffic and general cargo
tariffs are generally adequate to cover long-run marginal costs. Traffic
projections for 1993, mnder a progressively cost-related tariff policy, would
entail a decline in railway participation in main line and suburban passenger
traffic to 4% and 51 of the total traffic, respectively, and a consolidation
of the railway role in freight movements, with emphasis on phosphate and other
bulk traffic. Current railway management is generally competent. Although,
to date, it is not sufficiently motivated by economic or efficiency objectives
it has prepared a staff reduction and retraining plan reflecting a recognition
3013 L



- 34 -
of the need to improve operational efficiency. Because of insufficient
passenger tariffs and inefficiency in operations and maintenance, railway
revenues barely cover working expenses and SNCFT relied on Government
transfers to finance its debt service (TD 12 million in interest and TD 28
million in principal) in 1988, capital investment not covered by long-term
loans (TD 23 million), and working capital needs (TD 1 million). The heavy
debt service reflects expensive and economically doubtful past investments.
The proposed restructuring of SNCFT would aim at reforms to gradually reduce
SNCFT's dependence on the Government budget, through improvements in railway
investment strategy, tariff policy and operating efficiency.
80.        SNCFT's performance contract is central to this restructuring
effort since this document is the tool which will permit both the enterprise
and the authorities to articulate a set of coherent objectives and the
measures intended to achieve them, in the context of the new transport policy
outlined above. SNCFT's performance contract has the following objectives:
(a) establishment of a transparent financial and service relationship between
SNCFT and the Government and major railway customers such as the CPG (SNCFT
transports 100X of CPG production which represent 932 of SNCFT's bulk
transport); (b) tariff adjustments in line with the broad transport policy
obJective (see above); (c) gradual phasing out of Government compensation for
tariffs below long-run marginal costs, except for social traffic for which
full cost compensatory payments should be made by the Government to the
railway based on clear and explicit criteria.  Although SNCFT's cost
accounting system is capable of producing most of the information needed for
these calculations, it is overly complex and does not produce timely
information. The Bank has proposed that the SNCFT performance contract
include the establishment by SNCFT of a task force for improving SNCFT's cost
accounting system. Draft terms of reference, including a timetable for the
task force prepared by the Bank are currently being discussed with SNCFT; (d)
investment planning based on agreed economic criteria; (e) managerial
accountability through a set of monitorable performance indicators; and (f)
Government commitment to the above objectives and its obligations to SNCFT. A
more detailed description of this program and indicative data on SNCFT's
traffic, operating, and financial indicators are provided in Annexes XXII-XXIV.
Actions sought under the PERL: Submission of a performance contract including
the elements outlined below approved by the sectoral ministry is a condition
of PERL effectiveness.
-    Corporate strategy:  SNCFT will progressively concentrate on
the services for which it has comparative advantages, such as
bulk traffic, within a gradually more competitive environment,
while continuing to play its social role in suburban transport.
Investment Program: SNCFT's investment program will be
limited to the minimum essential investments to achieve the
above strategy. A minimal program for the VIIth Plan period
would require investments of some TD 163 million compared with
a total of about TD 214 million formerly planned for 1987-91.
Non-priority components will be cancelled.
301tL



- 35 -
-    Tariffs:  In the case of SNCFT, long-term marginal cost,
calculated on a replacement cost basis, is slightly above the
average cost. Cost recovery at the long-term marginal cost
level is therefore, sufficient to ensure SNCFT's financial
viability. SNCFT's tariff policy should enable (i) freight
traffic to continue covering its long-term marginal cost
(tariff increases in line with local inflation); (ii) main
line passenger traffic to progressively approach long-term
marginal cost recovery (i.e. including investment and
maintenance costs). According to mission projections, for a
502 coverage to be reached by 1993, annual tariff increases of
61 above local inflation would be required. jvernment
transfers would meet the difference between the actual tariff
and the cost; and (iii) suburban passenger traffic to
gradually cover variable operating costs, reaching 100X
coverage by 1993, with the Government providing explicitly
for the difference between tariffs and long-term marginal
costs (tariff increases slightly above local inflation). The
basis for calculating tariff increases would be agreed
explicitly in the performance contract including the basis for
calculating the compensation payable to the railway for
providing social services. A similar practice would govern
any other services provided by the railway below cost at
Government request.
-    Increasing labor productivity:  SNCFT's staff reductions in
mainly administrative areas would amount to some 200 staff per
year. However, SNCFT would have to recruit some 50 high-level
technical and analytical staff per year to upgrade the quality
of its skill mix. As a result, there will be a net labor
force reduction of some 150 each year. This corresponds to a
productivity increase of about 3% p.a. In parallel, SNCFT
will design and implement a retraining program to reallocate
staff from redundant positions to fill essential positions as
they fall vacant.
-    Increasing railway operating efficiency:  A set of operating
efficiency indicators would be included as an integral part of
the performance contract. SNCFT is implementing appropriate
operational and managerial measures to achieve these
indicators.
-    Approval by the CAREPP of the performance contract including
the above elements and satisfactory initiation of these
elements is a condition of second tranche release.
81.        The overall impact of the measures proposed above would be to
immediately reduce the budgetary demands of SNCFT for investment purposes and
to improve its cash generating capacity. This strategy would result in
reductions in annual budgetary support from an estimate of close to TD 75
million to about TD 55 million per annum in 1988-93. As debt service
obligations associated with past uneconomic investment are repaid, the level
of these transfers will decline considerably more rapidly. The Bank proposes
3013L



- 36 -
to follow up on the adherence to the above commitments through a Transport
Sector Investment loan in FY92.
D. Soeial im0lications of the proposed PERL.
82.        As noted in Part I, the Tunisian authorities have paid close
attention to mitigating social costs and protecting Tunisia's most
disadvantaged groups. Social programs in Tunisia are relatively well advanced
and will continue to be a Government priority warranting and receiving
sustained World Bank support. While the major social implication of the
proposed PERL relate to employment issues - either through early retirement.
lay-offs or restrictions on new employment, these costs are being mitigated in
a number of ways. First, as illustrated by the car assembly plant closure and
in the case of the proposed mine closures in Gafsa, such closures are only
undertaken in Tunisia when it is clear that the costs to the economy of
continued operation of these facilities is no longer sustainable and the
conversion of the facilities to other uses is not feasible. Once this point
is reached, closures typically are phased to mawimize the notice to employees
and ensure full exploration of employment alternatives. Second, redeployment
of workers on a preferential basis - after retraining if necessary - is the
first preference of the Government in the event of plant closures. Early
retirement is proposed for those close to retirement age with the budgetary
costs of their social security payments being assumed by the State.
Redundancy payments without redeployment is the least preferred approach, and
is only proposed when all other alternatives have been explored and fail to
yield solutions. In the case of privatizations, new owners are eneouraged to
retain workers and their willingness to do so is often explicitly taken into
consideration in finalizing the sale price. The choice of enterprises to be
privatized or restructured and the pace of these measures reflects
Government's sensitivity to these social costs. The PERL has been prepared
with the authorities while fully recognizing this sensitivity and therefore,
the selection of enterprises and the timing of their privatization or
restructuring has been, and wilL continue to be, determined by the national
authorities to ensure that they fully reflect the social and political context
in which these decisions must be made. In summary, therefore, the objective
is not to avoid social costs due to plant closures or privatizations, but to
minimize these costs, to manage their impact and to compensate workers
adequately when redeployment is not feasible.
83.        The precise social implications of the privatization and
restructuring program are difficult to quantify since the terms of a final
sale (including the number of workers to be retained) and the pace of sales
cannot be determined in advance. However, to provide indicative orders of
magnitude, a review of 21 possible candidates for privatization, all of which
are currently in some financial difficulty, reveals an excess of about 4000
workers. The privatization of enterprises not in financial difficulty
involves much fewer redundancies as seemingly excess workers can frequently be
fully absorbed as capacity utilization rates increase following privatization
and the injection of new capital. The restructuring of public service
monopolies or other PEs remaining in the public sector entails greater excess
staffing problems. A preliminary review of 13 such enterprises suggests
overstaffing of about 3200 workers (including CPG's excess labor already
discussed). However, not all of these workers will be laid-off at one time
3013L



- 37 -
and the Public Enterprise Fund is designed to ensure adequate compensation for
laid-off workers in the context of the proposed PERL. Successful efforts are
already underway in Tunisia to promote artisanal and other small entrepreneurs
and funding (loans and grants) for these programs is available. Up to TD 2700
in loans and TD 300 in grants (equal to over two years of earnings at the
minimum wage) can be provided to new entrepreneurs to assist in setting up
their own business. However, in spite of the above, the difficulties in
laying-off PE employees cannot be underestimated. They are generally
accustomed to wages, work conditions and benefits which are considerably more
favorable than in the private sector. They are sometimes located in areas
where alternative employment opportunities are extremely limited. Finally,
their acquired work habits are seldom viewed as an asset by potential
investors.
84.        In light of the above factors, the social cost of PE reform must be
addressed at two levels. In the short-term the critical elements are: to
ensure that new hiring in PEs is extremely restricted; to implement early
retirement and redeployment programs in those PEs where they would yield the
greatest efficiency gains and at a pace which reflects the specific local
conditions; and to ensure that existing employment promotion agencies focus as
a priority and in a coordinated fashion on displaced workers of selected PEs.
The pilot redeployment effort underway in the severely disadvantaged region of
Gafsa in the context of the CPG restructuring is a valuable, albeit modest,
attempt to address redeployment needs at an appropriate pace, while learning
cost effective methods which may be applicable in other underprivileged areas,
or for other severely overstaffed PEs. In this way, significant staff
reductions can be achieved at a modest cost over a reasonable time-frame. But
in the medium and lon er-nm Tunisia must intensify its efforts to outpace the
growth in its labor force by the growth in productive employment generation.
The overall economic reforms underway lay the macroeconomic basis for this
objective. In addition, as already noted, the Bank is studying with the
Tunisians the labor legislation reforms necessary to better promote labor
market flexibility, reduce the costs of new employees and improve the
coordination and the effectiveness of employment promotion agencies. These
measures would be followed up by the Bank under proposed lending for an
Employment Conversion Fund Project in FY91.
PART IV - LOAN ADMUNISTRATION
Eilb1e Exuenditures. Procurement and Disbursement
85.        Eligible Expenditures.  The proposed loan of $130 million would
finance the foreign exchange cost of imported goods. Not eligible for
financing under the loan are goods financed from other sources and those
specified in a list of excluded items. The exclusions are military or
para-military goods, nuclear reactors and parts, and luxury goods such as
tobacco, precious stones, jewelry, and gold. Petroleum products would be
financeable up to an aggregate ceiling of $26 million. Foodstuffs would be
financeable up to an aggregate ceiling of a further $26 million.
86.        Procurement.  International competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with World Bank guidelines would be used for contracts of $5 million or more.
30131L



- 38 -
Other imports would be procured following usual commercial practices of the
purchaser which involve quotations from prospective suppliers whenever
possible.  For procurement through ICB, bids, bid evaluation reports and
certified cories of contracts would be presented to the Bank prior to
submission of the first application for withdrawal of funds. For other
procurement, prior to submission of the related withdrawal application the
Borrower will furnish all information and documentation that the Bank may
reasonably request in respect of such procurement.
87.        Disbursement.  The Central Bank would be responsible for the
administration of the loan. Disbursements from the loan account would be made
against 100 percent of the foreign currency expenditures for eligible
imports. Withdrawal applications for disbursements on contracts of goods
procured under ICB would be fully documented. In all other cases,
disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
from the Central Bank detailing individual transactions in a given period, and
certification of payment and of eligibility of the transactions for loan
financing. Supporting documentation for disbursements under SOEs would be
retained by the Central Bank until at least one year after the Bank's receipt
of the final audit report for the operation. A revolving fund (special
account) would be established at the Central Bank with an initial deposit of
$20 million. Replenishments would be made monthly or when half of the
revolving fund has been utilized. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed
24 months after effectiveness. The closing date would be December 31, 1991.
88.        Accounts and Audits.  The Central Bank would maintain records of
all transactions under the loan in accordance with sound accounting
practices. All accounts (including the revolving fund) would be audited
within 6 months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would include a separate
opinion on claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of SOEs and would state
whether the claims were made in accordance with the terms of the Loan
Agreement.
Release of Funds, Tranchmg and Key Conditions
89.        The proceeds of the loan would be made available for withdrawal in
two tranches, of $70 million and $60 million respectively. The first tranche
would be released upon loan effectiveness, and the second one would become
available upon fulfillment of agreed conditions, expected to be around
December 1990. The specific actions already taken and key elements to be
reviewed are described below:
Measures already undertaken in the context of the Bank/Tunisian dialogue on
Public Enterprise Reform
-    Approval of the new law and issuance of key decrees governing
public enterprises.
-    Identification of priority enterprises requiring technical
assistance in corder to prepare a business plan or a performance
contract.
301 3L



- 39 -
Strengthening of the DEP with expertise in privatization to
facilitate the privatization process.
Application of more than a dozen divestiture decisions taken by
the CAREPP albeit in the absence of an overall legal framework.
Preparation of an indicative list of enterprises which should
prepare programs of privatization or restructuring in the coming
12 months, and the expected budgetary implications of these
measures.
CPG: established a task force to study personnel redeployment
possibilities and proposed a redeployment program for 725 people
in the coming three years.
SNCFT: decided on a minimum investment program cancelling or
postponing all investments originally approved for the VIIth
Plan but for which an up-to-date economic justification is not
available.
Groupe Chimique: completed necessary studies to alleviate gypsum
pollution of Sfax and Gabes production units and launched bids
for the required investments.
Loan Effectiveness (First Tranche Release)
Conditions covenanted in the PERL Legal Documents
-    Submission to the Bank of the performance contracts for CPG,
SNCFT and SNT approved by the responsible sectoral ministry and
whose principal elements are acceptable to the Bank and
submission to the Bank of a list satisfactory to the Bank of PEs
currently receiving substantial budgetary transfers which will
prepare and sign performance contracts in 1990 (para. 42).
-    Government will bring to sale (i.e. completion of valuations,
bidding documents and bid invitations) a group of PEs/holdings
selected on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and
provide to the Bank for review a program satisfactory to the
Bank for a further group of candidates proposed for subsequent
privatization (para. 55).
-    Allocation of an increase in the Public Enterprises Fund, at
least equivalent to the value of the first tranche (para. 59).
Second Tranche Release
A.   Conditions covenanted in the PERL Legal Documents
-    Approval by the CAREPP, signature by the responsible sectoral
ministry and satisfactory initiation of key actions highlighted
in the performance contracts for CPG, SNCFT and SNT (paras. 42,
64 and 82), and approval by the CAREPP and signature by the
3013L



- 40 -
sectoral ministry of performance contracts from an agreed group
of PEs (para. 42).
Government will bring to sale (i.e. completion of valuations,
bidding documents and bid invitations) a further group of
PEs/holdings satisfactory to the Bank based on agreed criteria
(para. 55).
Allocation of an increase in the Public Enterprise Fund, at
least equivalent to the value of the second tranche release and
commitment of at least half of the first allocation to the Fund
(para. 59).
B.   Elements to be reviewed with the authorities prior to Second
Tranche Release.
-    Preparation of annual economic and financial data by PE based on
year-end audited financial statements (para. 39).
Satisfactory progress on:
-    The application of the new law in a selected group of PEs (para.
41).
-    Hiring of consultants necessary for implementing -.he technical
assistance program (para. 43).
-    Preparation of a table of all budgetary and extra-budgetary
transfers and loan guarantees by PE to ensure full transparency
of financial support, including major outstanding PE
cross-arrears and measures towards regularizing any major
outstanding cross-arrears identified (paras. 46 and 48).
-    Preparation of specific measures envisaged to rationalize the
Groupe Chimique's organization and operations and the
implementation of the proposed merger of the companies (para.
71).
-    Preparation of a financial rehabilitation plan for Groupe
Chimique for 1990-91 that will help reduce short-term debt
financing and prevent future accumulation of arrears to
suppliers (para. 73).
-    Addressing the pollution problems (sulfur dioxide and gypsum) of
Groupe Chimique (para. 74).
-    Finalizing a price convention between CPG and Groupe Chimique
(para. 75).
ManaEeneu, Coordination and Monlhning
90.      The Public Enterprise Reform program would be managed under the
feneral coordination of the Directorate for Public Enterprises in the Prime



- 41 -
Minister's Office, which will be assisted by the Ministries of Plan and
Finance, National Economy, and Transport, and by the Central Bank. The
Central Bank will be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of
disbursement related aspects. Progress reports on the implementation of
agreed key elements of the adjustment program would be prepared by the
government (through the Directorate for Public Enterprises), prior to each
tranche release.
Coperaton with other AEencies
91.      In view of the broad nature of the measures envisaged under the PERL,
the range of Public Enterprises involved and the critical importance of the
reform measures entailed, the World Bank's involvement in this program has
been complementary to and cooperative with the support provided by a number of
other agencies. While these complementary relations have required close
coordination and continuous communication efforts by all concerned, they have
served to strengthen the overall dpport of the donor community for the
Tunisian Public Enterprise Reform program and to focus the attention of each
agency on clearly identified priorities. The involvement of some of these
agencies in the reform program has already been mentioned in the foregoing
text.
-The Japanese Trust Fund, in consultation with the Bank, is
considering an allocation of Y 270 mil-ion to finance the technical assistance
requirements of priority Public Enterprises to enable them to prepare
performance contracts or business plans, as required.
-The United States Asency for International Developement (USAID) has
financed a series of seminars in Tunisia on the rationale and methods for
privatization. USAID is also financing technical assistance to the DEP for
the implementation of the privatization program, and to the stock exchange for
development of the capital markets.
-The European Investment Bank has, in consultation with the Bank,
provided a loan of ECU 17 million to finance priority maintenance and
rehabilitation requirements of SNCFT, the railway.
-The African Development Bank (ADB) is providing a loan of about
$40 million equivalent to CPG to finance priority investment and maintenance
needs of the phosphate mines. The ADB project appraisal was timed to coincide
with the appraisal of the proposed PERL and this close coordination will
continue through project implementation.
-The United Nations Developement Programme (UNDP) is also financing
technical assistance to strengthen Tunisian capital markets. It is currently
launching a technical assistance project which is expected to include a
component for the Public Enterprise Sector. UNDP is coordinating closely with
the Bank to ensure that this component will be fully integrated with the
reform prcgram.
-The International Monetary Fund (IMF) accorded an Extended
Arrangement to Tunisia in 1988 in which Public Enterprise Reform was
highlighted as a key structural reform which would be monitored under the
3 0 a;3 



- 42 -
Arrangement. The PERL has been prepared in close consultation with the IMF,
and both agencies are in agreement on its approach and priority.
-The International Finance Corporation (IFC) played a key catalytic
role in the privatisation of the first textile company in Tunisia in 1986,
including attracting a foreign investor. IFC has indicated to Government its
willingness to pursue similar operations in the future and an IFC staff member
participated in the PERL appraisal, to ensure that all promising candidates
for privatization were identified and that IFC could commence discussions with
potential partners for selected privatizations.
Jutfigat'in and Risks
92.     The Public Enterprise Reform Program represents a major effort by the
Tunisian authorities to radically reorient the public sector towards an
efficient dynamic and competitive environment. These wide ranging measures
addressing institutional, legal and budgetary reforms as well as an active
privatization program, the introduction of performance contracts and major
restructuring of priority PEs in severe difficulties lay the basis for
progressively achieving the Government's efficiency objectives for the PE
sector. The monitorable, time-bound measures agreed upon in the context of
the proposed PERL ensure that the objectives enunciated will be translated
into practice in key PEs. Their positive demonstration effects are expected
to ensure that these practices will be generalized throughout the sector over
time.
93.     The Government is fully committed to the objectives of PE reform and
has already demonstrated its willingness to proceed with the program by
approving the new PE law and by implementing PE privatizations, liquidations
and restructuring proposals even in the absence of a clear legal framework for
these measures. The main risk associated with the reform program is not,
therefore, whether the program will proceed, but rather the pace of
implementation. It is for this reason that several key steps in
implementation of the reform program were sought and achieved prior to loan
appraisal and negotiations and therefore first tranche conditionality relates
primarily to the allocation of appropriate resources to the Public Enterprise
Fuad and the approval of key performance contracts by their sectoral
ministries. Disbursement of the remainder of the loan will be linked directly
to the pace of PE divestiture and restructuring action as well as
satisfactory implementation of the new PE law and agreed performance
contracts. In this way, the pace of implementation will be monitored both at
a quantitative and a qualitative level.
94.     A second risk is that the main bottlenecks to privatization and
restructuring efforts i.e. realistic valuation of assets, availability of
buyers, resolution of labor problems, could delay the program either because
of Government's unwillingness to sell assets at market prices or to face the
social and budgetary costs of labor redeployment, or because the private
sector (domestic or foreign) is unwilling or unable to purchase available
assets at "market" prices. Experience to date indicates Government's
willingness to progressively address such bottlenecks and private sector
interest in the assets to be privatized, as well as the necessary financial
resources, are already in evidence. The work program of enterprises to be
30 I St.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



- 43 -
restructured or privatized is expected to be significantly larger than the
total number of enterprises which can actually be restructured or privatised
during the next 2-3 years, in order to provide sufficient flexibility in the
appropriate choice of enterprises and thereby to maintain a momentum of
reform. Clearly implementation of this component will require close
monitoring, as reflected in the second tranche conditionality.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
95.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
June 12, 1989
Washington, D.C.
SOISL



-  44  -                                                                TUISIA
TLISIA- EMInOIC IiSICATU
.......... .................. .
If+IW  P           i  dtt.)          S
1w  Per copita or in uS,          1180
.  .......................    .......... ................................................................... *v-**-*^-.-* ..............................-^s*.-*......... -h
A. Om    of cram  oDitet  Prodet                          11. Crosth fttW$ pa arnc)
(frm  awrs  pric  da)                                 (r   cott  price data)
.  ........ ....                             .........     ................ ----*........ .............. -....*----*+
190    17       19ll    im      1987    19go           19867)1973 I    910.7   19W    Igo
....     .. .   ....    ....    ....
Gress Oastfic prodt 3..          100.0   100.0  105.0   10.0  100.0   100.0                 7.2     6.4      3.5     5.8     1.5
Net Irdirect Ta                 12.2    13.6   13.5   13.3    12.7   13.0                   ..      ..      ..
Agrisjltare                     19.4    19.?   14.1    13.3    15.3    11.7               6.6      2.1     4.2    17.5  -23.9
Inflry                          20.8    21.3   31.1    2.9   23.4   Z3.8                  6.6     7.4      2.7     0.3     3.5
(of 6idch wujndfswiqn)           7.7    9.3    11.8   13.1   13.1    13.9                10.4    11.0     6.1      4.3     6.3
Sefoces                         47.5    453    41.3   "4.    43.6   46.3                  6.0     6.3      4.1     6.2     7.5
aesotre   Iamn                   -13.1   .2.5   -5.4    -7.2    -1.2        0.0               ..      ..      ..      ..
exports of  sF3                 18.8   26.1   40.2   30.8   35.0   42.2                  10.9     9.9      2.4    14.0    19.5
Inpots at uWs                   31.9    26.5    45.6    38.0    36.2   42.1               5.2    11.9    -1.3   -4.2    16.2
total Expwdurnes                 113.1   10.5   1S.4  IO.2  101.2   100.0                   5.5      ?.3     2.0   -0.8   *O.S
Total CnAupian                  85.5    81.2   76.0   83.8   80.3    80.9                 7.6      7.5     3.9     1.4     1.4
Private  C uspitcn            73    66.0    61.5    66.5   64.0    66.4                 8.0      7.5     3.7     1.3      1.3
Oaerat GsNrnWmt               1S.0   15.1   14.5    17.3    16.3   16.5                 5.9      7.7     4.?     2.2     2.0
Grom  Ostfet It tnnt            27VA    213    29.4    21.5   20.9    19.1                 1.5     6.?   .3.      -9.5    -8.9
Fixed Ireo st                 27.5   20.5   23d3    24.0   2033    20.6                 3.3       .     -3.3   -3.4       1.0
OnIU*  in Stodbo               0.1     0.8      1.1   -0.5      0.6     1.6               ..      ..      ..       ..
Graos Ocoestie SsWne              14.5    18.8   24.0    16.2    19.7    19.1               6.0      36    -3.0    29.0    -2.4
Net Factor Inom                 -2.8   -3.6   -3.4   -4.8   -4.9   -5.0                     ..      ..      ..       ..
net Cu nt Tronas                 0.0     3.3      4.0     4.1     5.0     5.2               ..              ..       ..
Gross Naticial swimu               11.?   18.5   21.6    15.5    19.9   193                  5.6     3.7 ;   3.9   3V.0    2.5
In mUhita  of WC                  19SS    1973n   190    196s    19        19w
(a  tcttc 1980 Pricae )                    ....    ....    ....    ...       ...
Orm  Camstie Prodict             1361    2250   3541    4215   4526   4595                 7.2     6.4     3.5     5.8      1.5
Capei   to inport                29t    669    1425    1311    1501    1806               11.1    10.2   -0.6    14.5    20.3
TeOM  Of Truk Adjustmn            -1     -e1        0    -235    -262    -300                .       .      .        .
Gros Osemte mnJm                130    2166    3541    4043    4266    4295               7.1     6.5     2.5     5.5      O.i
Gross NaticrI Produet            133?   2172    3447   4086   4319   4300                  7.1     6.4     3.3     5.7      1.4
Gross atia     Incll            1219    2090   314    38649   4057   4400                  7.0     6.5     2.2     5.4      0.6
(1000--- -*W-vi198D * 100)................            ...........inftaticn Ratos( pa.)----
C. Pric Icde ces                   1910    19t2    19a     195    19W       198t          190-73 19n3-80190-MO       1W      1980
Conhuw  Prices (IFS 66)           100.0  1463   1S6.0  147.1   179.1  190.6                  3.3     6.8     8.7      7.2     6.4
"oetne  Prie   (IFS 63)           100.0  150.2  161.0  170.1  174.6                         3.7      6.6     8.2     2.6   ---.-
toplfict  P DOefleor             100.0  151.6   158.9  166.3  176.8   187.9                 3.3     8.7      8.2     7.6     6.3
laplicit Expenitures Deft.       100.0   1511.   161.8  173.2  187.6   201.0                3.7      8.6     9.3     8.3      7.2
0. other lndicts:                1960-73 1993-a8 1i00-6
............................... ....... ....... .......
Growth atew(X p.*.):
Pqotatlon                         1.9     2.5     2.6
Labor Ferc"                        .       *      3.0
Grose 4att. mm p.c.              4.9      3.9   -0.4
Private Comupio  p.c.            6.0      4.9     1.1
1e  Elastidcity
lIrrts (G4IFS) / W(RO            0.?      1.9   -0.4
Nrginml Savinr Ra ti
arm natitl Ssill                 30.5   37.6  -10.9
Wross Dastfe SNr                25.4    33.0   -8.7
Ir  (period ara):                   ..    4.6       9.0
Share of Total                     190    1973    1980    1W
Labor Force fm.
AgriaJItIe                      49.1   39.7   35.0   29.6
nistry                          21.4    28       36.4    31.6
servfie                         29.5   31.S    2.6    38.7
Total                           100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0
............ ...................... r---- ............................. -  --.- ............................E   0--
IEC "At5



- 45 -
TIWISIA
LUIASX   A  EW6 IC IQICAT0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... ..   ... ........................................... . ...................................
PE20f 2
Vlum 11d                             Volta at tAt prfas (millfiw  US$)
.............. ,w         Igo................       ................................... 
E. Iftdiu     o g rts            16    1s    1            9J    1W    lS         190    19       1911    196    1W       I9go
................. . . ._ .       .   .0  .  ...   ...   ..................       ...
X.RIEL                          10.0  7iL1   10.4   76.5   73.0   61.8   131              797    75       4      so       3
.LPUOPIEB                       100.0   a.A   86.6   77.4   80.0   71.0            55      36      33      n       3¶     31
..     ..      ....  ..         *   ..         *.      ..              ...     S. .  ... ...
D100.0  1n.9   13.   1.S43   167.0  Z.0          90      67 an   a      1175   143    179
Ra"Ns                           100.0  147.9  14.8  145.6   19.0  167.0                   96      9       1n      156    181
Ttatl Em t Ka                   100.0   99.    9.1  109.6  119.6   1.A            95    1601    17l9    1745   213?       90
P. ftdwulso Irta 
;eai                            100.0  146.5  1133   140.0  133.0  197.6    33           46      33      342    312    551
PAnt .d  w i                    1.0   53          5.6   59.6   73.1   61.8    19         373     370      25   318    243
oth.    a     pab               100.0  180.8  115.7  100.3  100.8  125.   SSS            5S      5 42     65    m        930
oter Ito    god                 100.0  120.1  10.9  112.1   112.0  131.2   1099 993  J89                 1030   1100    1341
Catpfl g$                       100.0  141.3  103.1   6.2   62.5   70.9    42              N9    40       6      520    616
Toutl 1r   CIF                  100.0  113.3   96.0   97.5   91.?  110.4   365    35    27 41                   304360
C. Teu  of Tr                    19ao    1961    196    196      1W      195
............................... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
UAh. E5 M  Pric   l             100.0   75.9   73.6   67.4   74.5   77.6
Nort.  usa  Prif       n        100.0   7s.a   78.8    2.1    85.1   91.6
msd. Ta   of Tru                100.0   96.4   93.4    8.0   84.5   01.5
US sutlta (at arruit price):
N. Samma Cf Ppw          1       1W  1..         19.     196.     1W     1985
...............................  ................................. ....   ..... ....   ..... .... .. ..... ..... ..
Expas of cm    U516 Ws           XU    2m         70    2        3V      4M2
ftdids  (Pf)                   a395    1801   1129   176    2137   Z590
"I-Fact. Savlrn                1125    920    971    954   1237   1642
t ports of God & NM              3961   369   3207   336    3490   4227
mdiwd as (FM                   353   3030   350    2744         2      3US
N-P S tor gvice                 5m      429    637    680    626    744
Resue Satin                       49    -9       -so?    442    -116        6
Not Per  In                      -M       251   .352   .485    .9    -S02
(Toa  Intart ) I/               25      264    269    331    358    420
aet 0Arft Trutfr                  348    317    210    359    48    SW
(Wwuk      rsettu  )            303    317    271    362    41    51U
Ourr AC let bfe Off. Tre    -414   -675    -S89    -705    -9              23
Ibt 0fficifaTrwsfer              42      29      37      41      35      52         .......................................
Otr A/C lt after Off. Trtf   -372   -646   -52    -6              -63      75           1/ Total int1est p_wts irelti
PFM, *W     rutte* 1W 2 UerV-
Las-Tem Capitl lf Ia              602    617    472    424        130    180               tem dbI.
Dlreet Irwegu                   23      20*    140    1S5        92    111
Nt LT L.    (OR$do   )          356    359    308    215         62      40
Odoer Lt lnft   (Nt)             10      82      a        4     -24       9
Total Other Ito  (net)           -136      S0     -33      48      49      94
Net Stort Tau uCatt             -45      38      13      45       0      48
Caitatl FlA  Ml.                .8       12    -46        3      49      46
Eur"  "adufPa1                    0       0       0       0       0       0
Oti    n   t Uuer                 -__    150      113    192   -116   -319
Not Craedt ftm     DW           -31       0       0     176      53      20
dohr Sneus    atui              -4      150    113       17   -169   -369
A sire of IDPs
Rssainatsu                     -5.4   *11.7   -6.1   -7.3   -1.2    0.1
In"""estoP ft  V                2.9    3.3    3.3       3.?    3.7    4.2
Arrat AcM  Salce.              -4.7  -10.9   -7.1   -8.0   -1.0    0.2
NM ah1  RIt:
buea acl. Oold Clt. usO)    59            401    233    305    526    699
Reava  fret. Gold (.1t.   )    70         4ff    29       378    616    965
Officfal X-ate (LOMAU)           0.41   o.78    0.86    0.79    o.3    oa6
tidix Ral ff. XK- Sm  1930  100.00  97.25   96.74  82.10   71.24  69.81
MP (awittS of arm   U            8742   am       a0        49   9654  1o0
...................................................................................................................................
tIC OUI//8



-     . -AN 3 ;
THf STATUS OF BANl 6ROWIONS IN NSA
A. STATIH1NT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREfITS
(As of May 31. 1989)
Loan ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~US$ M4illion Amount
Credl or                                                                          (Loss CtTc l ti*1ons )
Nube      r                                                                             l a    Unisoursed
Forty-seven Loans and Ton Credits Fully Disbursed                            780.11    75.16
1797     1980    Offico des
Ports Nationaux         Third Port                          3S.20                0.89
1961    1961     Republic of Tunisia      Fourth Education                    21.00                5.88
1969    1981     Reublic of Tunisia       Small-Scale Industry Development   30.00                 2.63
19      1981     Rpublic of Tunisia       Northwest Rural Owevlopment         17.S4                2..09
2005     1981     Republic of Tunisia     H"lth and Population                 8.50                2.64
20S2     1982     Rpublit  of Tunisia     Grain Oistribution and Storage       33.40                1.01
2108     1982     Republic of Tunisia      Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)         35.50               7.53
2157     1982     Repulic of Tunisia       Irrigation Development              15.30               2.03
2223     1963     Reublic of Tunisia      Urban  evelopmnt III                 25.00                .71
2230     1983    Republic of Tunisia       Education V                         27.00               14.67
2234     1983    Republic of Tunisia      Central Tunisia Irrigation           13.70               4.86
2255     1983    Republic of Tunisia      Urban Sewrage III                    34.00              20.08
2289    1983     Republic of Tunisia      Sfax Flood Protection               22.30               .0.24
2346     1984    Republic of Tunisia       Mining Tochnical Assistance          7.80                2.11
2360    1984     Republic of Tunisia       Seventh Water Supply                50-00               27.23
2429     1984    Republic of Tunisia       Second Urban Transport              33.00               19.52
2455     19U4    Soci6t4 tunisinne do
lEloectricit6 et du Gas  Fourth Powr                         21.52                3.6
2502     1985     Republic of Tunisia      Northwet Agricultural Production   8680                  7.49
2522     198     Repoublic of Tunisia      E*port Industries                  32.50                18.39
2554    1985    Republic of Tunisia        Second  lectricial
and  Mnical Industr'es             32.50               22.13
2573    1985      Reblic of Tunisia        Irrigation Nanaget Improvemt   22.00                    16.22
2605     1966     Reic of Tunisia          Gabes Irrigation                   21.70                12.57
27s      1987     R public of Tunisia      Energy Conservation                 4.00                3.87
2736     1967     Republic of Tunisia      Fourth Urban Omlopment              30.20              22.94
2754     1967     Republic of Tunisia      Agricultural Sector Adjustrent    150.00               3S.04
2781     1987     Republic of Tunisia      Industril & Trade Policy Adjust.  150.00               44.26
2865     1968     BUT                      UNT tV                              30.00              21.86
2870     1988     Republic of Tunisia      Fostry Oevelop met                 20.00                17.65
2896     1988     Republic of Tunisia     Hi     s   atintenance
& Rehabilitation                   63.00                62.99
2911     1968    Republic of Tunisia       Second Small & Nediwu Scale
Ind. Devlopment                    28.00               28.00
2962     1988     Republic of Tunisia      SAL I                              150.00              115.01
3023     1989     RepublIc of Tunisia      PetroleM Exploration /A              S.50                5.S0
30S4     1989    Republic of Tunisia       Education VW Training 7k            95.00              95.00
3064     1989    Republic of Tunisia       Fifth Urbab  k                     5.00                58.
tOTAL                                                     2.112.07    75.16     719.69
Of whtich has be   repaid                                   49.   63 13
Total fow Outstanding                                     1,613.44    61.91
_ot Sold                                 39.56,
of thich has b"n repaid               ZLM                  16.88
Total now held by lank And IDA                            1,596.56    61.91
Total Undisbursed                                                               719.69
I   Not yet effective.
1   Not yet signed
479Wps
4/20/69



- 47 -
AN r I
Page 2 of 2
B. STAT!MT OF rFC !WNVfSTNTS !_N MT.?SIA
(as of March 31. 1989)
liseal                                                                       A  unt ot USI YilI-om
1962       M   Engrais                             fertilizers          2.00          1.50         i.50
19 n/78 SOeMt Nationals dlnvestissommnt
(now ECt)                             Oev. Finance Co.                   2.30         2.30
199        COnT Tourism (now SlT)                  0v. Finance Co.    0.00            2.2         10.20
1973       Socidt6 Touristique St ttliIre
ON SA                                 Tcuriso              1.60          0.3          1.90
1974       Idustries Ch #im     du floer           Chemicals                          0.6          0.00
1975       SoCIti 4 Etudes St do
Odvl p9emlt do Sousse-fNrd            Tourism              2.50          0.6          3.10
I'0        Suii1i  Nisienne de Leaing              Leasing Co.           3.40         0.5          3.90
196        SocltO Riire do SPath Fluor
Iet do Sarytine (Flubafr)             MiDing Co.                         0.3          0.30
I9C6       Socitd Industrililo des Textiles
(St)                                  Textiles an  Fibers  5.0           3.2          8.20
197         dwya S.A.                              Phanaeuticals         2.0          0.3           2.30
196        Roass  Edilisaia Industrializsata
(RUT S.A.)                            Prefabricated Panels 1.3           0.4          1.70
196       Cemitt Engineering                       Enineering Services  -             0.04          0.04
I9J        Socidt6 des tIustries Textiles
44unies S.A. (SlITR)                  Textiles   Fibers         .JA                   4.4
Total Gross Comitmets                                       28.45         14.38        42.83
Less caneollations. Teminations.
Reamewts an  Sales                                        I21           ..LM
Total Comitments Hold by IFC                                132           LLL3
of which Undisbursod                                                       2          L..1
fro  kvijaj



-*8 -                            A.N%EX :!:
Page 1 of 
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Progres Under Existing Adjustment Operations
First Agricultural Seetor Adjustment Loan (ASAL-D
Policy Area                 ConditionalitY                      Progress to Date
MACROECONOMIC          Currency adjustment, announcement    Actions taken
of first round of import
liberalization and budget cuts
Confirmation that the Government      Confirmation received
has taken all necessary measures to
remove restrictions on imports of
spare parts for use in industry,
agriculture, hotels, hospitals and
other services, raw materials and
semi-finished products for enterprises
that export at least 25% of their
output, and capital goods for
investment projects approved by
API, APIA and the Tourism Investment
Board after October 1, 1986
Bank confirmation of satisfactory    Satisfactory progress confirmed
progress in implementation of the
overall program
COORDINATING           Establishment of Interministerial    Committee established
COMMITTEE             Coordinating Committee
PRICrNG AND UARKETING
Cereals and Inputs    Revision of administered producer    Targeted adjustments achieved
prices for cereals and input
prices to achieve targeted
adjustments and subsidy reductions
for the 1986/87 and 1987/88 crop
seasons
* ASAL-r also supported a broad range of uncovenanted measures designed to bring about
progress in the five major areas of the MUASAP.  Of some 70 actions recommended for
early implementation under the %ITASAP, 45 have already been fully implemented.
30l 3L



_ .6 _                          ANNE X -;  
Page 2 of 9
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Pr,Ss Under Existing Adjustment Operations
First Agrieultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-I)
Policy Area                 Conditionality                       Progress to Date
SUPPORT SERVICES
Credit               Confirmation that FOSDA                 FOSDA loan allocations
loan allocations for the 1987          frozen at D 13 million
budget have not exceeded                in 1987 budget; interest rates
D 13 million, and that action          increased for medium and
satisfactory to the Bank has           short term credit
been taken to start implementing
the Government's policy to establish
by 1991 agricultural interest rates
which cover the financial costs,
operating costs at reasonable
efficiency and a reasonable share
of the risks of agricultural lending
Input Marketing      Updating of fertilizer retail           Fertilizer retail margins
margins for inflation, selling by    liberalized ahead of schedule
public sector of fertilizer at          in August 1987
prices adequate to fully cover the
costs of purchase and distribution
and announcement of fertilizer
retail margin liberalization to take
effect as of January 1, 1988
Farm Mechanization  Full cost charging for mechanization Full cost charging achieved.
services.  Authorization for the        Imports authorized
import of 52 of the annual needs of
tractors in the range manufactured
in Tunisia
Researcher           Increase in the remuneration of         Career status and
Remuneration       agricultural researchers to an          of agricultural researchers
adequate level following guidelines  upgraded through adoption of
acceptable to the Bank                  "Statu.t de chercheurs"
Extension            Designation of lead extension           Direction de la Vulgarisation
agency for rainfed areas with           created in Direction Generale
appropriate responsibilities and        de la Production Vegetale and
personnel, to achieve gradual          designated as lead extension
unification                             agency for rainfed areas
NATURAL RESOURCES
Fisheries            Liberalize domestic fish marketing  'Margins liberalized
margins
* ASAL-1 also supported a broad range of uncovenanted measures designed to bring about
progress in the five major areas of the MTASAP. Of some 70 actions recommended for
early implementation under the MTASAP, 45 have already been fully implemented.
30 1 3.



- 50 -                          l.k'NEX : Ir
Page 3 of 9
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Promess Under Existinx Adiustment Operations
Industrial and Trade Policy Adiustment Loan (ITPAL)
Policy Area      Corditionalitv                         Progress to date
r. MACROECONOMIC MEASURES
Macroeconomic      t&87 budget satisfactory to             172 reduction in real exchange
Policies           the Bank as condition of               rate in 1986, maintained since
effectiveness.  Satisfactory           then.  Except for low level of
progress in implementation             investment, macroeconomic
of macroeconomic and industrial        performance in 1987 was good.
sector program as condition of         The severe drought of 1987/88
second tranche release.  Action        will have negative impact on
program for liberalization of          growth in 1988.
interest rates to be discussed
with the Bank.
Nominal wages were frozen in
1983 and SMIG and SM&G were
raised slightly in 1986 and 1988.
Toward end 1987, measures were
taken to strengthen economdc
growth and encourage private
investment (tax amnesty, lower
interest rates, etc.)
II. FOREIGN TRADE REFORM
Quantitative       Phasing out of all QRs by 1991          Elimination of QRs for:
Restrictions       except for some infant industries    (a) most raw materials and
that may receive quantitative          semi-manufactures, except poorly
protection for up to three years.    integrated industries;
(b) capital goods except for
infant and poorly integrated
industries; and
(c) semi-manufactures and raw
materials for enterprises
exporting more than 15S of their
output.
Customs            Raise minimum duty to 152, reduce    TFD has been integrated into the
Tariffs            maximum duty to 50%, reduce by          tariff structure, reduction of
6 percentage points duties between   the maximum rate from 2361 to 412
261 and 552 by January 87 and by       and rationalization of tariff
9 points by January 88.                structure.
Incorporate Custom Formality Tax
(TFD) in duties.  Action program to
achieve effective protection of 251
by 1991 to be agreed with Bank.
.^ i.  



- ;1 -                         ANNEX ::.
Page 4 of 4
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Proaress Under Existing Adjustment Oprations
Industra and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITfPAL)
Policy Area      Conditionalitv                         Progress to date
tll. PRICE LIBERALIZATION
Producer Prices   Prize controls in well established   Simplification of control
indW.atries to be phased out by 1988. mechanism by merging homologation
Other producer prices to be            and auto-homologation with
liberalized in 1989-91.  More          liberte contr6lee.  602 of
flexibility in the system of control producer prices (weighted by
of non-liberalized industries.         production value) are now
decontrolled.
IV. FISCAL LIBERALIZATION
Taxes              Submission of a draft VAT to            VAT system adopted in July 1988
Parliament before second tranche
release.
V.  INVESTMENT INCENTIVES
Investment         Promulgation of a new Investment        Investment Code abolishing
Liberalization    Code satisfactory to the Bank and    investment controls, except for
establishment of Approvals Committee investments requiring special
independent from the Industry          incentives was approved ir.
Promotion Agency by second tranche   Summer 1987.
release.
VI.  EXCHANGE RISK GUARANTEES
Forwarding         Adoption of improved system of          New system adopted in August
Exchange Risk      exchange rate guarantee by second    1988.
tranche release.
.



52 -                         A.NEX '!;
Page 5 of 4
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Prooess Under ExistinZ Adiustment Operations
Industrial and Trade P   Adustment Loan (ITPAL)
Policy Area      Conditionality                         Progress to date
VII. INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT
Social Security   Discussion with Bank of changes         Actuarial study of Soc. Sec
Charges            needed to reduce employer's             finances being done by the
contribution to Social Security        Government and ILO.
before second tranche release.
Wase               Ewmloyment of consultants to           Consultants (ILO) hired.
Determination      assist Min. of Social Affairs to
help entrepreneurs relate wage
increases to productivity by
second tranche release.
Labor              Agreement on timetable for             Measures to reduce cost
Legislation        introduction of labor legislation    of labor discussed with the
reforms by second tranche release.   Bank; some already implemented.
VIII. TOURtSM SECTOR
Sector             TORs for study of situation antd        TORs for a study were approved
Development        prospects of Tourism Sector to be    in Summer 1987.  Draft study
approved by Bank before loan           being prepared.
effectiveness.
30 1 3 



53 -                          ANNEX  ;:_
Page 6 of 9
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Proxress Under Existin Adiustment Operations
Structural Adiustment Loan (SAL)
Policy Area      Conditionality                         Progress to date
Macroeconomic
Performance        Satisfactory review to                 Overall economic
be carried out before                  performance satisfactory
second tranche release                 in 1988.
Foreign Trade Reform
Quantitative       Reduction of at least                   QR elimination on schedule
Restrictions       15 points (relative to
June 1988) in the
weighting of restricted
imports before second
tranche release.
Custom tariffs    Preparation of program
to achieve objectives
for 1991 to be monitored
under macroeconomic
review
Safeguard          Employment of consultants               Consultants employed
measures           for a study on
transparent antidumping
measures before
effectiveness. Review
and implementation of
study conclusions by
second tranche
Price Liberalization
Producer Prices   Percentage of fully
decontrolled goods to
be raised to 70% by
second tranche release



- 54 -                          ANNEX  r;I
TUNJrS[A                       Page I of 9
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Prog Under Existing Adjustment Operations
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Policy Area     Conditionalitr                          Progress to date
Price Liberalization, Cont'd
Improvement of    Draft law agreed with
Domestic           the Bank on domestic
Competition        competition at the
production and
distribution stage to
be presented to Parliament
by second tranche release
Distribution
Margins            Margins of goods                        Margins representing 102
representing at least                  had been liberalized before
102 of production to be                Board presentation. No
liberalized for the release            difficulties foreseen
of the second tranche
Consumer
subsidieOi         Before second tranche                   Drought and low economic
release the Bank would                 growth in 1988 have
review performance in                  raised the volume of
1988 and the measures                  subsidies beyond
contemplated to achieve                expectations, but overall
the agreed ceiling in                  satisfactory progress.
1989. Semi-annual
reviews as part of
monitoring
101 1L



- 35 -                         AN'JNEX  tr
TUNLSIA                        Page 8 of
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Progress Under ExistiM Adiustment ODerations
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL;
Policy Area     Conditionality                          Progress to date
Allocation of Financial
Resources
Interest Rates    Circular announcing                     Circular published in
increase of effective                  September 1988
cost of preferential
rates to at least 72 to
be issued by loan
effectiveness; circular
announcing a further
reduction of one third
in the gap between
effective cost of 7X and
the money market rate to
be issued before second
tranche release.
Consultants for a                      Consultants hired
review of inter-bank
competition to assess
possible elimination
or raising the cap on
spread to be hired by
loan effectiveness;
review to take place
before second tranche
release
Treasury Bonds    Taxation system on
treasury bonds to be
rationalized and the yield
on bonds to be increased
to compensate for the
elimination of their
fiscal advantages, before
second tranche release
mtZ Lr



- S6 -                          ANNEX  ttr
TUNISIA                        Page   o
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Preuss Under Existing Adjustment Operations
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Policy Area      Conditionality                          Progress to date
Foreign Exchange
Risk               Adoption of a new                       New system adopted in
foreign exchange risk                  August 1988.
guarantee system based
on market mechanisms;
review and eventual
:justment of the
operation of the new
system in agreement
with the Bank by second
tranche release
Tax Reform
Tndirect Taxes    Introduction of VAT law                  VAT law adopted in July
by loan effectiveness.                  1988.
Extension of VAT to
large wholesale traders
by second tranche
release.
Hiring consultants for                 Consultants hired
study on eventual
extension of VAT to
retail trade by loan
effectiveness; agreement
on the program for
implementing study
results by second tranche
release
Direct Taxes       Submission to Parliament                Draft law reviewed by Bank
of new, single law                      in March 1989, to be sent
covering taxes on                       to Parliament shortly
individuals and on legal
entities by loan
effectiveness; law to be
applied to income earned
in 1988 prior to second
tranche release
101 1Li



-57                       A NNE= tV
Page I of 8
TRANSLATION OF FRENCH
ORIGINAL
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
1818 X Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
U.S.A.
Public Enter2rise Reform Program
Tunisia: Sectoral Development Policy
Dear Mr. President:
As you know, since 1986 Tunisia has been engaged in an extensive
program of economic reform and structural adjustment, in response to the need
to adapt to the post-petroleum era and to meet the challenge of international
competition.
Our program, described in the Seventh Plan documents, has receiv4d
continuous support from the World Bank in the form of two Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Loans (1986 and 1989), an Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment
Loan (1987), and a Structural Adjustment Loan in 1988. The International
Monetary Fund is also supporting our macroeconomic adjustment policy, most
recently through an Extended Fund Facility.
Since mid-1986, our main macroeconomic reform measures have
focussed on: (i) liberalization of foreign trade and domestic prices;
(ii) relaxation of financial and banking controls; (iii) promotion of
efficient foreign and local investment in the industrial ssetor; (iv) tax
simplification and reorganization; (v) rigorou control of the public
investment and operational budget, and (vi) adopting an exchange rate which
promotes and strengthens Tunisian export competitiveness.
The macroeconomic reforms undertaken and underway - particularly
trade policy and pricing reforms, as well as the rigorous management of
public sector finances, have clear implications for the Public Enterprise
(PE) Sector of the Tunisian economy, and we have therefore identified this
sector as a priority area for sustained reform. The Government's Public
Enterprise Reform Program centers around one overall objective, namely to
realize the greatest economic returns possible from our scarce human and
capital resources. The thrust of our Program is to disengage the State from
direct involvement in competitive areas of the economy when the private
sector is capable of assuming this role, and to introduce quasi-market
mechanisms, such as performance contracts, to assure the efficiency of
natural or public service PE monopolies. The establishment of any new Public
Enterprise or public participation will therefore be on an exceptional basis



-                         AN  &NEX_ Iv
Page 2 of 8
only, following detailed reviev of the rationale, to ensure that it is
consistent with this overall objective.
The Tunisian authorities have taken or plan to take a number of
measures, which we summarize in the remainder of this ietter, to bring about
a real, sustained reform of Tunisian Public Enterprises. On this basis, we
hereby request World Bank financial support for this Program, through a
Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL), since we view World Bank support as an
important complement to these measures.
MAIN COMPONENTS OF TRE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM
1. SYSTENWIDE REFORMS
Lezal Reforms: A revised Public Enterprise Law has recently been
approved by the Chamber of Deputies and the decrees required to implement
this law have been issued in April 1989.
This law:
(i)    reduces the number of enterprises to be governed by the PE law
from over 300 to about 200. The new law will apply to
non-administrative public agencies, enterprises in which the
State, or wholly State-owned public agencies hold more than
502 of the shares; and approximately 20 enterprises identifibd
by decree, because of their special character (such as joint
ventures with neighbouring countries); all other enterprises
will be governed by the commercial code.
(ii)    Clarifies the roles and responsibilities of PE Boards of
Directors;
(ii)    Specifies the limitations on the PE actions requiring approval
of the sectoral ministry and those to which this ministry may
express reservations, with a view to increasing the autonomy
of the management of Pen and to limiting State involvement in
PE maagemant;
(iv)    Introduces a system of triennial performance contracts which
will specify reciprocal obligations of the State and PEa,
(v)   Abolishes the financial and technical controllers of PEs which
were charged with ex-ante control of individual PE manageoent
decisions;
(vi)    Establishes a new group of high calibre "controleurs d'Etat"
in the Ministry of Plan and Finance, to monitor PE compliance
with state laws (e.g. procurement) and supervise overall
financial management. Their primary responsibility is to
ensure that the necessary system are in place for
satisfactory PE management;



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
(vii)    Simplifies the procurement regulations most notably by raising
the threshold of contracts requiring clearance by an
interministerial commission from TD 1 million to TD 5 million,
and abolition of the intermediate review procedure formerly
exercised by the Departmental Commission; and
(viii)    Streamlines the procedures for PE restructuring and
divestiture. Establishes an advisory body - Interministerial
Commission for Restructuring and Divestiture of Enterprises
with Public Participation (CAREPP) - under the Prime Minister
who takes all decisions in this regard. Each proposal will be
prepared by the PE in consultation with its sectoral ministry
and submitted to the Commission for review. Implementation of
Prime Ministerial decisions will be the responsibility of the
PE; the Directorat G6n6ral des Entreprises Publiques (DEP) in
the Prime Ministry (as Secretariat to the Commission) is
responsible for monitoring progress.
Institutional Reforms: Under the new law, the Tunisian authorities
will strive to reinforce the autonomy of PE managers, while at the same time
strengthening the capacity of the relevant sectoral ministries to monitor PE
performance. In this context, several measures have been defined of which a
number have already been put into action.
We are seeking to improve the composition and performance of PE
Boards of Directors. A system to monitor the participation of members at
Board meetings is already in place. Moreover, recognizing the key role
played by the company President (PDG), it is our policy to ensure that PDG
appointments place priority on professional competence and that their tenure
is sufficient to allow continuity in their plans.
The establishment of performance contracts has already begun. A
first group of about a dozen of the most important PEs have been selected to
sign a performance contract during the next two years. We plan to extend
this system to all commercially-oriented PEs subject to public service
constraints, tariff-setting or requiring significant State financial
support. In view of the importance of effective management information
systems to permit the preparation and monitoring of a performance contract, a
program has been formulated to improve internal management systems and
controls in a group of priority enterprises. The implementation of the
measures foreseen should enable these enterprises to prepare satisfactory
business plans and performance contracts over the next three years.
The improvements in the Boards of Directors, the strengthening of
managerial accountability and the progressive implementation of the new
legislative framework should permit the rationalization of State/PE
relations. In the context of the new Law, the Government is also seeking to
improve sectoral ministry oversight of their PEs, protecting consumers and
safeguarding national assets, while avoiding interference in day-to-day
management of the enterprises.



- 60 -                    ANNEX 'V
Page 4 of 8
To ensure that the.new Law is effectively implemented, the DEP will
periodicallY monitor progress in its implementation and recommend any
necessary amendments to the CAREPP. The budget and staffing of the DEP will
be maintained at an appropriate level to permit it to carry out these
functions in a satisfactory manner.
In the context of the PERL, the World Bank will periodically
review, with the Tunisian authorities, progress achieved on key measures
envisaged under the Law concerning: (i) Boards of Directors, (ii) performance
contracts, (iii) improvements in management and information systems and (iv)
rationalization of sectoral ministry supervision of PEs.
Bud&etarv Reforms: An important aspect in more rigorous management
of PEs is the strengthening of discipline in the budgetary allocation
process. The progressive introduction of performance contracts will play an
important role in this regard. It is the intention of the Tunisian
authorities that by 1992 all significant budgetary allocations to
commercially-oriented PEs will be based either on an approved restructuring
program or a performance contract which specifies both investment and
operational budgetary support. This approach has commenced with those PEs
which place the greatest burden on the budget, and by end-1991 it is expected
that 60% of all budgetary transfers to those PBEs will be based on such an
approach.
The Ministry of Plan and Finance will prepare a detailed table ofi
all budgetary allocations to each PE (capital subscriptions, investment and
operational subsidies, debt repayments, onleanding, Treasury loans, transfers
from the Compensation Fund and all other special funds). In the medium and
longer term, we expect Government transfers to the PE sector to decline.
However, in some cases, PEs will require higher budget transfers in the short
term than in the past in order to stabilize their financial structure and
undertake minimal essential investments. Any such expenditures will be
carried out subject to the overall constraints of the macroeconomic framework
to which we are committed. The Government will prepare, for review, an
annual table of key financial and economic indicators for all PEs, based on
year-end audited financial statemeats. In addition, the Government will
continue its efforts to identify and eliminate major arrears between PEs.
2. PROGRAM OF DIVESTITURE AND RESTRUCTURING.
The Tunisia authorities have expressed their intention to
progressiv&ly divest PEs in competitive areas of the economy. This
commitment relates not only to PEs wholly or largely owned by the State, but
also to enterprises ti which the State has a minority shareholding.
Several constraints limit the pace at which this decision can be
implemented, principal among which are:
a) Limited industrial and cocmercial prospects of assets which
are often of poor quality, due to weak self-financing capacity
and have had poor performance in the past.



-61-                      ANMX tV
Page 5 of S
b)   Limited domestic private investor capacity, due to the
difficult economic conditions of recent years, and poorly
developed capital markets.
c)   Limited interest by external investors in PEs to be privatized
due to lack of adequate understanding abroad of the Tunisian
economic adjustment program.
d)   Social difficulties combined with salaries and benefits which
often exceed those in the private sector.
The Tunisian authorities are working to ensure that these
constraints do not restrict the momentum of the divestiture effort. Several
measures have already been taken and these efforts will be intensified; in
particular:
a) Recognizing the limited marketability of many PR assets, sale
terms and conditions will be realistic and flexible, based on
financial and technical evaluationas. Sales of assets or
shares will be transparent, with public bid invitations at the
international level if necessary.
b) All modalities of divestiture are being considered, including
leasing with an option to buy, partial or total
privatizations, sales to workers, management contracts as a
first step to divestiture etc. Payment terms will be
negotiated on a case by case basis to take account of the
financial capacity of the purchaser.
c)   The social costs of the divestiture program are being
addressed through the redeployment of excess staff or
appropriate compensation if alternative employment
opportunities cannot be identified in a reasonable
time-frame. To the extent possible, we will encourage new PE
owners to retain the existing workforce.
4)   To ensure adequate Zunding for the divestiture program, the
Government will make periodic resource allocations to the
Public Enterprise Fund corresponding to the value of the PERL
trAnch releases based on the pace of the divestiture and
restructuring program and the associated financial needs.
These needs will include the redeployment or compensation
costs for workers, and the settlement of liabilities which
cannot be covered by the proceeds of the assets on sale. In
addition, the Fund may finance, if necessary, studies and
technical assistance to implement the program. The Fund is
intended to play a catalytic role to facilitate the
restructuring of a signiticant number of PEs. The majority of
its resources will be used to facilitate divestiture. The
Fund could also be used for dynamic, comprehensive,
sustainable restructuring of selected PEs. In general, the
Fund is not intended for investment financing. However, very



-62-                      A4NEX IV
Page 6 of 8
limited investments indispensable for the success of a
privatization or restructuring may be finAnced from the Fund.
The Bsak vill be informed of any operation which requires more
than TD 10 million in Fund financing.
In spite of these efforts, it is not possible to predict the pace
at which the divestiture program can be implemented with precision. Our
intention is to monitor implementation closely to ensure that the State
facilitates this process to the greatest extent possible. We have requested
that the World Bank loan in support of this program be disbursed according to
the pace of the implementation of these restructuring and divestiture
measures.
3. RESTRUCTURrNG OF PRIORITY ENTERPRISES.
We have also asked the World Bank to assist with the restructuring
of three priority enterprLses, i.e. the Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa
(CPG), the Groupe Chimique and the Societ4 Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Tunisiens (SNCFT); the key measures being addressed in each of these PEa are
outlined below.
Compasnie des Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG):
CPG hag prepared a performance contract covering the period
1989-1991 which specifies the overall objectives of the company over the
madium-term, regarding production, technical efficiency, financial
performance and manpower requirements. To re-establish medium-term financial
viability, CPG is undertaking an important cost reduction program, involving
a progressive shift in production from underground mines (which presently
amouat for 381 of total production), to open-pit mines, which are more
economic and less labor intensive. The social implicatioas of this strategy
are significant and will require substantial State support which is specified
in CPG's performance contract. Beyond the 628 early retirements envisaged
between 1989 and 1991, we intend to take the necessary measures to redeploy a
further 725 workers in the context of a program of personnel reconversion in
mining area and resignation incentive packages to alleviate the social
pressure in the Region and to generate new employment opportunities. The
financing of these omsures is already envisaged. Given the volatility of
the phosphate markets, particular attention has been paid to ensure that the
company's financial condition will not deteriorate further, and financing
will be provided to avoid an arrears buildup or excessive short-term
borrowing. This performance contract will be approved by the sector ministry
before year-end 1989 and will be signed in early 1990. It will be revised at
the end of each year to reflect sectoral developements.
Groupe Chiakue
The companies of the Groupe Chimique have experienced serious
losses in the past several years, due to the particularly unfavorable
evolution of the price of fertilizer in the international market. Their
excessive dependence on short-term commercial debt to finance their
structural deficit has caused a further deterioration in their operations.



-63 -                     A&NNU IV
Page I of 8
We recognize the severity of the situation and the urgent need for financial
restructuzing, but in view of our budgetary constraints and the negotiations
underway with the foreign shareholders, we plan to seek transitional
finanial arrangements for the present year to cover their cash requirements
and to put in place a certain number of safeguards to avoid any further
accumulation in their arrears to creditors. In addition, by the end of this
year, we plan to define a medium- and long-term strategy for the fertilizer
subsector and to identify appropriate objectives and specific restructuring
measures for the coming two years. We also recognize that the present
organizational structure of the Groupe could be rationalized to increase
managerial efficiency and we plan to elaborate a plan of action toward this
end.
Moreover, we believe that the ecological problems caused by the
operations of the Groupe at Sfax and at Gabes should be resolved as a matter
of priority. In this context, we plan to undertake investments amounting to
some 15 million dollars for the Gabes area to discharge the gypsum laden
waters in an inland site, which will not pose environmental problems, instead
of in the sea as at present. [n addition, we are researching least-cost
investments to limit sulfur gas discharges. We are currently seeking
concessional credits to help finance these efforts and hope to commence this
work in 1990 at the latest. The discharge of sulfur gas in Sfax and of
polluted water into the sea have been important factors in the deterioration
of the environment in this area. We have therefore closed our sulfur
installations of SIAPE B as of November 1st, 1988 and we are presently
undertaking certain technical adjustments which will enable us to discharge
polluted water on land in this area also. In light of the severe financial
situation of the Groups, and of this period of budgetary austerity, these
measures represent a very serious effort and serve to underline the
importance which we attach to the protection of the environment.
SNCJT
The Government policy for the transport sector aims at minimizing
the cost of transportation to the economy. To this end, our priorities are
(i) the liberalization of the transport market for private operators;
(ii) freedom of modal choice by users in the context of an overall strategy
which favors the transport mode with the greatest comparative advantage; and
(iii) the alignment of tariffs with the long-term marginal costs of each mode
in the medium-term. The transportation legislation has already been amended
In 1988 to address the first two points above. This policy also aims to
tmprove the productivity and fimancial performance of public enterprises in
the sector. The Tunisian railway has now and will continue to have a very
important role in the development of our country especially for bulk goods
and for pacsenger transport in the urban areas, and along the North-South
corridor. A further objective of this policy is to reduce financial
transfers to the railway and to rationalize their allocation. We therefore
plan to reorient the railway toward its comparative advantage based on real
economic costs. To this end, a performance contract is being prepared
between the SNCFT and the Government which will be approved by the sectoral
ministry before the end of this year and will be signed at the beginning of
1990. This performance contract will clarify the role of the railway as well



- 64 -                    &VNEX tv
Page 8 of 8
as its relations with its sectoral ministry. The principal objectives of
this contract are the following: (i) introducing transparent relations
between the railway and the State as well as with the railway's most
important clients, notably CPG; (ii) a progressive introduction of a tariff
policy toward the coverage of long-term marginal cost by each major traffic
type, which should permit a progressive reduction in subsidies; (iii) the
introduction of specific rules to calculate the payments which the railway
will receive to compensate for revenue losses due to social or national
interest operations which do not cover their long-term marginal costs and for
the costs of public services; (iv) a gradual increase in the productivity of
the railway and in particular of its employees, which would permit a
reduction in the overall workforce by an average of about 150 per year; and
(v) introducing investment planning based on criteria for economic
viability. The Government is committed to respect the above objectives and
to met its obligations under this performance contract.
The sectoral ministries concerned and the DEP will monitor closely
the implementation of these performaace contracts which will be reviewed by
the World Bank in the context of its periodic reviews of the program.
In summary, we believe that the measures proposed and those which
are already being implemented represent a difficult but significant reform
program which warrants World Bank support. We recognize that the
implementation of these reform measures will require sustained attention at
the highest levels of Government.  The Tunisian authorities are deeply        ;
comitted to this continuous effort.
SIGNED BY MOBAMED GUANNOUCHI
June 2, 1989
Moha_ed Ghannouchi
Minister of Plan and Finance
Republic of Tunisia
l10$  L"-)5



tUPISIA pniiic wiTpPPisi emuD  Od
PUdLICI   IIlQ
PtiL lC?IOiS/CGitiRlItiE$
(Legal coditions coceumuted for effectiveess and tranche relemse are  arted with ao   
oUIJC?lt                                  AUtl0lS tUtl to hAtE 
tricttilESS                                    StElOD  t1lCl EIUSI
A. LIAIUtCLiStI?ioL  RmOPs                    Pnblic Enterprise La  passed Feb I189:                                                                   eitew the  awct of tk  nw  PI La  on a
reus  aber of Pk nader Covt sperision                                                                    representativ  grop of Pis. and discus
replacts tincial ad techical coatrollers                                                                with the bask tht effectiveness of the
prtevlostly  uercised en-ate coatrolsi pith                                                             seo lau tad its application
controlers 4 etat to tonitor PR fi acisal
umnaemet
"elans promet rtntrictioa ow pih
- strealints decion-ab la  ptrsM   for
rtstricturIng ad  1 ivStitret
clarities uature of 6ovnment supervisio
specifies composition/fctions of E boards                                                                                                                                             °
COspilation of 1986/? ni fina leC/e       ic                                                                Preparation of adurlcooifiaaacal dta
data by Directorate of Publit Enterprises i                                                                 by P  bsed on year-end  udited tienical
Prime liister s Offfict                                                                                     statemts
PLrparationlsignature of               Prototype Performuae Contract IPCl prepred
pertformne contracts IP-Csi
for mjor Ph                            frelimliary draft P-Cs prpared bi                     0 Submission to  an  for review draft P-Cs          * lpproval by cAm        signture by is uad
CiP fphospibatesi S9Clt (rallwa  and Slt (bus)         for CP. SlCl and Sat - epproved by                 reponible sectoral wiistry. ad
res iosale sectoral tinisDitr  prior to            initiation of tey attiess is P-Cs for
approal by cam, teo  P-Cs elemetS to               CM. SiCm  ad Sit
be satistactory to the DabD
Preliminary Adetificitioa of second  TOOup of         t tonfirmtiot of second groip of PS to prepare   5 Pepatation and signtor  of P-Cs for thre
Ps to PreparSAig  P-Cs ih ti9P. 1991                    ad sig  P-C i        1990 aud 1991: Ps to he       Pl frc  second group
aed 1992                                                selected fro  relatedlaonopoly nn recciucag
sbaktatial bdetary traosfrs
- Isprove illS  aceautin. internal       Preliinary diawstic s"rey of tecuhical                  COapletion of toos and call for bids for            laplemestation of areed TA prograu
controls, ete in priority nP           assistasce rquireots coitleted for sir Ph                areed TU  progrta
C. isD6NTIi"PlEdNCAII   IPI;faES 
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w.
Increared tranparency of               Agreent dtriDg negotitations on toratconteot                                                                Submissito of #an  tab le of all budetar                       I
Covernent f.ooial spprt                of data to be prepared/subaitted                                                                            ad estra budgetary trafners. and lOan
ieaoutetet fo.r *tctt ' 
Ellmiute  I cros-arrears and            Periodic budgetars  provision by Govermat to                                                                Idotfisatln ;.f Uaj.r arrears betwn  Pin
tesare finacial discipline              eliminte mjot arrears betwn Ps                                                                              ad rontinued rettlesent of  jot artrars



tUIiSIA PUlSLIC EE?E!PII i\liOII L011
POiLICY IAl,II
illL Ittli#/OIDlOOtlOllLltl15
I.egal conditionm  COteDaoted for etteetineoec6 Nd trauche  release are urted  lith aD t )
OIJICI'iTE                                 attiCS Till! TO DiE                         -     - ------.-.-.----.--.-.-.--
fEPicYiYiEs                                    SeCOID TIIICM  i"MSI
P. DiliEStitliRl
progreive divestiture of               Ovor a doae diwestitares coepleted to date             t strlt to pint of sale li.e. walsations           * Briy to point o   ale 1i e. *elatlen
Pis/holdius ih cowetitime aOeas        (priarli  hotels, teatiles. and cotstructionl            ee pleted ad bids isseued) a grout of              epleted nd bids ioitetd  a fttihtr group of
PEs/holdino  satisfactory to the bat; and          Pns/holdints natisfactry to the Bak
he l La  strealined decision-taklig process;            "nbit to the pabt for mel"  a frther
lotulized ioter-sininterial emission (CAil"Pl           Iroup of candidates fPis/koldiogsl troposed
to review prieatistioa/restractarls  proposals          for subsequent prisatization                                                                                                    a
for Prime liaisteriai decision
Costinumw  pipeline of dossiers being prepred
bg nt a.d sector mioistries for Cui? review
for possible future privatiution
Guidelines beint prepred for Fllsinistries
r: iapletattioD of restrwcturialu/rivatiaatio
leg  naintioo. biddinl dhcuets ad proedumtl
Allocate sufficecot rnsourc  to        Letter of Slttoral Deselop eet Polity spcities           Athotiatiot  of iocnra  is the hed               a Coeitet of at least OS$ 35 siltlo
hUble iEtrprist land to address         objectiees/eiigible espeses under                       by an amwot at least eqpivaleot to                 equivalent Iree Pblic Eterprise Fund; ad
soial costs ad set liabilitiets        hblic   terpise fad                                      fint tranebe release                               autborizatioa of intrease i the fnd
associated with privatiatioa                                                                                                                       by an t at least equinaleit to second
tserance. peuoio lilabilities,                                                                                                                     trncbe releae
othr debts, etel



tWlISll PNi)iC gItIliWRSI SitOE ilOS
Poi   olLICI 111111I9ero    la
P41LCL l un
gLegal conditions coveunted for effeetlvetess aid tra4thb  releana crt nrled *itb u  ' I
eililG:a                                     C    lacti ls l T n3 c UAtl                                                                   - --  -  - -             . -  -    -
IFFICTIRSS                                       Sil011D t111101 liSIt
1. slilStCtO   ctio   PIADS
1. CHP  (Pbospknteu)
Prepatatio. sit4ature and               Prelimionr  draft P-C prepared by CPG maagement           SSubission to the Bank for revies  draft            * Approvii of P-C by CIP?. sIgosture hi CP
implemeatation of performace                                                                      P-C for CP6, approved hi sectoral minittr              nd sector#l mlnisttn, ad Ilitiation of
cotfact IP-Cl                           Completed detailed pertomel redeploinat stadi              prior to approval by ChUiP; ket elemots              kel  pertorance wnuren  spec(ifed i t-C
to be satisfactory to th Iank
2 Uroupe Chiique Ifertilinersl
letstnctere Group. a tfiances.         igreesent reached on vitbdrawal of foreip                                                                       Preperation aed review *ith Sa   of
organiztiot   and operations           patner  rom  four empaies                                                                                       satisfactory fimainlal relabalitatiot patn
for It3D-91 to reduce stort-trm debt
fInancig and present toture arrears
ecwmlation
Satistfctory progrers oA the isplemntatioa,
of tie serger d  tbe foor t?olso-nmitt
comnies of CCC and specific mtre   to
ratioaliz# i C s orgniao tion ad operations
Address pollutin problema             Stuites copleted to address gpum  pllotion lose                                                                  Satifactory progress on impleseUtatlio  of
gIp      a"d sulfur dioside isrtaeate
Istabllsb/laitain market-basd         Sati6tattorn fomlra adopted for 1!11                                                                             Signattre of traefdr price convention
trasfer price far pbopokate                                                                                                                            betim   CPM  and CC
NW  Irailaw
* Preparation, sipature  ndl             Draft prelimiury P-C prepared by SM                     ' Submisio  to Sank far resiem draft P-C              t ipproal of P-C hi CAMP. signature bi
isplentation of pertorumace           unmaemten                                                  for SC. appred by sector ministry.                    SICt ad sector miistry. and initiation
cottatt li-CI                                                                                    ptior to approval by CAS1PP. toi eleients             of let P-C measre  leg: diffeential
Redation it SOMs 191-S9  ionvetment progfr"               to be satistactory to the Bask                        triff intreas. operating efficiency
frot tD214 millioe to tl163 million                                                                             targ.ts, jnaetsent Critateialt itl 
4  SIt  tCwomCipanyl
- epatiot. sigutore and                  Draft preliminary P-C prepared by o             *          Sobmission to  antk for rviews draft P-C             Ipprotal of P-C hi CIIUP. cnature ti
implemestito  of perfornew           wnagement                                                  for Sit, approved by sector mistrt.                   SIT ad sector minlstr. and mlpleentatiun
cottract lP-Cl                                                                                    pri ir to approval by ClAMIT; k1 eienvnt             of Ise t-C masures (es   levstmet stategy.
to be satisfactory to the Bak                        Copeaut4r  rr4tD6 tS ftor Wsil tarifft.
Cteratina offirlency tatretni



- 68 -
TtNISIA
PUBLIC  ENTERPRISE !EFORM  LOAN
KU  PROVSIOMS     flM  PLC ZTUMS9 LM
zLEST                                 D VZSIOVS 07 MM LAW                                          coONS
a. SOOn cr LUV. AMD         PL defined as all. entasprses Ln Whlch ths State hoLds la        Reduce numer of etnterpuiues coveted
DOWUII?    OP PQ8LIC     excess of 50X either di ectly ot through wholly-oed              by PR Law fm otver 300 to 200. by
tSSEPRSS                 subsLdieties (towert PR  vw had 3SX threshold).                  cde toln vht ceastitutes a publLc
Also Licludes 22 *aditional 1ntprtseas of strategic             *nterp-tss tr nSstSt remaiLder to
Loportane  with GCvt shsreholdin  between 34-502 to be           cqpan? Code
"ovmred by re Law tempotarily (until 121 s91) while boLn
restucture
S. DAm$ OF D0C?ORS
* Ceopositiom             Smpewieen¢d eusrentlretired pubtic serwns. or private            tacresed *sbast ean h4&-caibve.
sectec persons with prLer public epertence                       esperienceld  erd members
- Responsibilitie*s       SLilar to prvate secter Seards: approvl of the                   So legaL change lt  r_sposbilitless
argasmsational structure end p.rsanwel rammeratioa rSmtDs        La practice. *reatet   _ giei to be
evieviapprcvel of plans  budgets      p (egpetatil/ ieam_t)      pl sed oe atrengtagnin *eeads to play
financing plan. perfternce conracts, ptocurement and             increased setl tin estblihlb  ad
audSted fLnnea statemens.                                        appowtavg PI  abjeotiveletratege   and
moantorin   _smaet peufwene
C. GOVUR3KZ   RZVIV AMD    ollOwine Approval by Ps  oa%rd. no reuire  to esubLt              in preatSce. Covt wnil fecus  elry an
APROYAL OF PS PLAS       preposed peuforeaune contacts. epatinglSnveatect budets            s requirig Go"t tinmerl1 support.
AND bUDCSTS              and finacig plan for approval by sector misstry (in              Also will shit from revievwlpproval
consultation with the Ministry of Plan and  Lence).              of anuaal budgets to negotastion of
pergfeoa_   conrtcts.
0. GOVEaNzU    COWNOLLUS   Abolition of ftnmacSal and tee dchna 1ontrolL.rs (fxowerLy        Shifts Governmeat contrels fro eu-ante
authorized to  x rcise *u-ante oeatrels en PI expenditures)    eeto   -pest, with *phais en ensuriLn
tstabsihes new *cotroleuve d'Stra   to cmnitor PS                that the ncssary Sytm  a,e in
omlLncec with State Laws (cg: procure mnt) and supervie          place for  atisfdtcy Pt m*n8  _ nt
oevrall financa managnt.                                         and  accuntab lity.
E. PROCUS00Z6S              bles thr_shLd et erats requALrn  clearance by Lnter-             Inreased pocurement autonom  to Ps
inisteria1 eoaeisln fror ai   1 mill in to ID S  illion.         Boardlecacgaan. Simplifies procedures
Abolihs  toemnedit., review prcedure.
P. RISTRUC29IUX   AND        etebtlses Intor-LainSJerLal  cis"oSto revi eCrw Greatly simplif les dieiammkift and
PRSIVAM"IV               rmetu* turd   an privatizstion proposals and make                LMplsenttion proe ss for
recpandtions to Prime minister for tsnl decision.                privatLiatian envsage  to Previous LaW
0.  I     L ADtT            ALL whollo ne    sut hav  externl audit.                         Cnfirms 19S3 deore  strengthening
audt prowtsionalrquirmnts.



- 69 -                                     kv  vrt
TUNIS IA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
PE SECTOR; KACROZC0fIC INDICATOItS
(million dr:)
I83              1.4               1985
A. GOP
PIS                    3190.*            3712.5            40X5.2
Total EosayW          10270.$           i18".7            l851.0
Z PNsITetal              31.1              31.2              31.4
I. asws a-
pas                     582.4             722.0             770.9
Total coaeomy          1728.8            2101.3            1953.7
S P*; I?otaI             33.7              34.4              39.4
C. Demotie  CvedLt
Pb                      1027.8           1234.9            1349.9
Total 8comy            2711.9            3284.0            3774.0
3 PKeITotal              37.9              37.0              33.8
D. Extemnal Debt (US$)
Pas                     1172.3           104.2             119".9
Total economy           3800.8           3752.0            4380.1
: PbIT?te                30.8              38.9              27.3
3.  IUple
pas                    1742"               U               140981
Total pecua  SecGto     590342                               no
X PbI/oxm   Sectec       29.3
Semees Iatluz Mational de statLstLques
lxtem al debt dta:  vLd ank Debtor LetLa  System
Domatle  iedt "tata  Ceatrnl Bn



- 70 -
ANNEX VIil
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
Asr ate Pt Data - 40 Najor PRO
(millIen dLmgas)
Ml U1      1962        19M5       1964        195         19M4
lMplaymnt                     104037      107004      109293     109u0S      108064      107326
Value Added                     534.6      570.2       702.2       614.6      796.6       79M.
Flonwsue                       1198.8     1388.4    172.6        1642.2     1964.8      1950.4
anponta                         29".3      332.3       373.4       411.1      406.0       297.2
Net Pofit (Lose)
A11 40 M J                    39.5      (12.2)      (50.2)       (4.6)     (31.4)    (146.3)
Uw!.u4dIa 01 PMs            (11.9)     (71.1)    (103.2)       (4.6)    (122.O)    (221.5)
Cash  1elw                      174.5      135.3       124.5       200.5      160.0        41.9
Total Debt                     1474.6     2037.3      2495.?      2722.4     2837.9      3165.8
of *Lobs
Sb.ot-tem                  858.1      1029.4      1295.4     1438.4      1534.0      1743.1
Long-txim                  G16.7      1007.9      1200.4     1284.0      1303.9      1402.8
znestsmt                        247.9      455.1       37t.3       468.5      355.1       279.9
Tranafers to PUs                 66.6      107.7       100.5       124.7      135.1       1174.
LoaS  and equLt
loe nJ *a rzty)
TSam.D.ati s                     71.5       76.6        94.3       15.2.      115.0       111.9
Smwoua MLuL*txy of 11ams and 1a.um.



- ,1. -                                         ,,-:_:
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
UT 1987  IUDZCtS gm S        U  PuLC u lSts
CeIllin dOls)
Eataupvtie            Motivltt              lapoyeel   Total    Total   ReVeOue  lot        ValUe   WWdiptot   jUdgeat4t3
as"te   Debt              Pstoits Added   Tsaufee  IaSnmests
A. Indusa:g1Cm"o                                                                                     (107)    (192-44)
1. SA!             ftSlis                    1981      304.2   259.5    77.7    -9.5         0.7       0        0.2
2. SAhA            fertill                   11        295.5   317.4   110.2   -32.3         4.1        0       1.9
3.  ascels Cobs*   feettlixe                  260       84.2        59.1    34.9    0.1      3.8       0          0
4. tea             fectiliso:                 525      129.5   128.4    57.5   -10.4         3.3       0        4.1
5. CAI             cn                         8$3       29-5    24.9    28.0    -0.1    . 5.0          0          0
6. SC Bhset        c                          747       78.1    75.2    33.7    -8.1         7.8        0         a
7. SC Gabes         e55                                 55.3    17.1      27.3      0.2      8.7       0          0
S. cloK            c804                                 74.9    52.4    22.-    -8.5         4.3        a         0
9. 5SCC            cet.                       389      1S1.4    1S5.2    29.4   -13.3        8.1        0       2.9
10. S1 7oued         ate.U                    2352       99.9    55.1    98.7        2.3    25.1         0       2.0
11. SOcUEA          shlp coautrrcpairzs       1095       10.7     12.4      6.1    -1.9       2.9      0.5       5.5
12. SCIA            pale production           1099       47.5    34.1    38.3        1.3      7.'        0       2.8
13. CST             susae                      253       85.0     61.9      8.A    -1.7    -2.a 0                10.1
14. office Calee *Gain mth"tla                1537      298.0             254.0                        5.2       57.8
15. OQ              vegetable                  U 9      120.$    96.8   11.2                -14.1        0         0
16. 3 LUh=          met 1mosrtsildtr          131         4.09    15.2    52.0    -8.0        2.1        0         0
17. Offic  Cm,c. r   holeal- ala/srtailla.     721      134.6    82.7   123.1        7.7    21.4         0         0
Is. 03              artissnal v,*4-           1433       17.4     15.0    10.8    -1.9        8.1      0.5    ' .2
I9. phrmscis         Phamceutioc.ls           1367      100.5   114.8    92.8    -9.1         2.5        0        0.9
-. gt",,/I"au
20. S P             oil production             321      284.8   144.8    78.1        3.9    81.4       4.0      110.2
21. 5TR             oLl ref nra                503      122.3    70.0   213.0    -0.7         7.8        0       0.5
22. 5NW1            oil diactibvtion           480      142.0   11s.8   209.4        1.8    15.2         0         a
25. CPG             phosphate -tnalu         11908      259.4   274.7   105.2   -30.5    50.7    21.7           102.7
C. T:enspot
24. $NC S                                     Os"1e  9588    4*09.9   280.3    53.7   -21.9    37.7   4*.9      31.
2S. 5Nt             Tuas. boa                 5024       42.7    42.9    24.2    -2.2        14.5      *.9       42.0
28. 5M.t            TuAht mtre                 945      230.2   167.6       5.9    -0.8       5.2    18.0        90.0
27. 5m              tr:oekl                   178t       20.8    11.8    17.1    -0.7         9.9        0         0
28. Tu"s Aix         aitLZIa                  4295      287.6    94.7   102.0   .  48.4   134.0          0       5.1
29. CTU             shuppLAg                  1419      199.0   146.1    70.;        2.9    18.0         0       15..
30. StN             StavedeLa                 1498       18.0    15.4    15.0    -0.1        15.5        0         0
U1. am31            poXt"                     1407      154.9    91.1    18.2        1.1     15.9      5.9       14.9
32. hEThI            ntte-tlt? b"o            108s       15.9 .   11.2    11.1    -1.9        8.7      0.9       *.7
$2-44 STSa (12 mIe)  geleoma bualtvuchln      7051      115.4   104.5    83.5    -2.5    37.'            0       '.'
D. OtlLtte
45. 0Go"             eiea                     22am      202.0    80.2    10.5    -2.4         5.4    11.9       93.4
48. 80333            ate                      4555      559.2   197.1      ".7    -3.3    00.5    14.0          104.1
47. 5180            eIeosla"ty                7959     1027.1   587.4   231.7   -28.7   135.4            0        9.5
3.  guicultusa
48. COP             fl/ior_slptoteaas         2448       39.2   $5.5    11.         -1.9      $.1      0.4        I.$
49. 0on              LVtoeck                  1443       27.9    24.3    10.4    -5.9         2.2      1.4       11.8
$0. 0OS              fa"Aft                    220      116.1    73.4    31.7   -4.9         22.5        0        1.0
Tota Abowe      (50)                          6488      835. 4   4103.1  2827.4   -55.5   740.3   147.4    1015.5
STa ALL 13. (192) *                           12iO18    10820.3  7434.3  3139.1  -142.9   9e8.9   122.0    2094.5
Total ou-VIaMMOL 1   (183)                    114885    6208.9  5009.9  2727.5  -154.9    87. 4        14.0    1987.5
* IoLudes boefth aieia_ltgst   "d  oa LLy-suiaat"  Us.
sm   0I2O   (PrIm   LslatUY) aid Ninltxg  of Plan mh VInne



- 72 -
ANNEX X
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
6overwllt  - Pe Financial Relations
(itllion diners)
1982     1983     1984     196S      1986     1987     1988
1. fin lotl Support to Pas
A. sudgetary Transfors
Titre I (1)                    47.0      S2.4     S9.8     67.9     72.0      70.2     74.4
Titre 11 (fii                 232.0   268.2   283.4    343.7    286.1    322.0    359.0
Total ludgetary Transfers       279.0    320.6    343.2    411.6    3S8.1    392.2    433.4
S. Off-Budget Transfers/Finaicing
Prets d  Tresor (iii)          29.4    36.1       85.3     41.9     39.9      36.0     25.0
Prets Retrocedes (iv)          13S.1    178.3    176.2    116.4    178.1    187.0    200.0
Special Funds (v)                                           3.5       7.1     10.6     22.5
Cuaranteed Loans                na      1S0.0    192.0    171.0     S0.0    102.0    130.0
Total Off-Budget
Transferu/Finhncing                     364.4   453.5   322.8    275.1    335.6    3"7.5
III. PE Payrents to
Goverrtnet:
DivIdends                            5.1      0.3      2.4      0.5       0.5      2.6      3.0
Principal Repaysents                11.0     10.5     13.2    33.1       26.2     54.2     S0.0
tnterest Repayments                 3.0       8.3      9.6      9.7      9.1      43.6     26.0
Taxes/Duties (vi)                   76.4    103.7    121.9    138.7    121.4    127.3       na
Total PE Paysents to Govt            9.S    122.8    147.1    182.0    157.2    227.7
-3t. Outstanding PE Loars
Oming to Gover m nt
Budgetary Loans (titre Il)                                                   128.0
Preto du Tresor                                                              154.0
Prts Retrocedes                                                              930.0
Total                                                                    1212.0
IV.  Outstanding Guaranteed Loans                                                 127n.0
V. Pt Low Anrrers to Govenuant
l4sotray Loans                                                                49.0
PreSs da Tresor                                                               t8.0
PreSs Sotrocedme                                                             296.0
Total                                                                        422.0
(i) In Govern ent s operating budget data for Pts only
tii) ln Govt s inve stment budget; includes swA ntion  (operating and fnvestment), equity,
loans and debt/equity conversions
(fii) off-budget local currency loans to Pas
(iv) towein lo ns contracted by Government and on-lent to PtE; dramv directly by PEs
(v) copeematfton for student transport; excludes consmar subsidies through Caisse de
Coopwnsation, peid to PEs
(vi) for 40 nejor PEs
Source: Ninistry of Plan and Finance.



- 73 -
ANNEX xI
PUBLIc rNIIPRISES REFORM LOAN (PERL)
WORL  SPLY/1EMANID FOR PHOSPHAT  FRTILT2ER
(million tonnes P2 05)
Average
Growth Rate
197   18Dlq5Ig8   I99   200         1987-2000_
(X)
West and South Europe      5.0  6.1   5.4  5.3  5.3   5.5         0.3
Eastern Europe and USSR   4.8   8.6   9.7  11.2  12.1  14.2       1.6
Far East                   1.6  4.6   6.4  6.5  9.5  14.86    4.0
Africa                     0.3   1.0   1.2  1.1  *1.7  2.4        '.9
Total World Desand        19.8  30.8  34.3  33.0  40.3  50.9      2.4
Production Caopeity
Total World
Production Capacity     20.6  33.0  37.1  37.0  41.4  53.5      2.6
Source: World Bank Intemnational Economica Department



- 74 -
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISEREFORM LOAN
GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL CONTRIBUIONS TO CPG
1980  [M1988
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
- ----        -- (Million TD)- ---------------
Governaint direct
Contributions            -     -      7.0   7.8  22.6  15.1  33.2  23.5  39.5
Ce*earl Jank              -     -      2.0   8.7  13.4   3.6   8.4  10.0   -
Debt Conversion             -                  0.7  17.4  40.0    -    _
TOTAL                     -     -      9.0  17.2  53.4  58.7  41.6  33.5  39.5
Source: Compagnie des phosphates de Gafsa
3014L/1 I



- 75 -                         ANNUEXXtz1
Page 1 of 2
TNNA
PIBIIC KNrEIIPfiIEFORM LOAJ
CPG PRODUCTION RAW PHOSPHATE 1980-1985
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
(thousand tons)
Production from Underground
Mines                            4,815   4,180   3,589   3,765   3,191   3,038
Production from Open Pit Mines   2,965   4,301   3,843   5,308   4,907   4,236
Total Raw Phosphate Produced        7,780   8,481   7,432   9,073   8,098   7,274
Underground Mines Production
as a S of Total                    622      49S      482     412      392      42X.
Source: Copegnie des phosphates d  Gfsab
X014 L/1 2



-76 -                          A     X&tt
Page 2 of 2
TUNAA
PlBUC ENTERPRISE REFORM IOAN
COMPAGNIE DES PHOSPHATES DE GAFSA
MAG PROGRAM 1988-1993
(Thousand Tons)
1986    1987     1988     1989   1990   1991   1992
Actual Actual Provisional  -         Projctions-
Underground Mines
Redeyef Old               0.80   0.93      0.60     0.55   0.40   0.35   0.25
Redeyef Erg L.            0.00   0.00      0.25      0.40   0.50   0.50   0.50
Moulares                  0.80   0.88      0.76      0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85
N'Rata                    0.65   0.65      0.65      0.65   0.60   0.50   0.45
Metlaoul                  0.41   0.42      0.39      0.36   0.30   O.25- 0.15
M'Dilla                   0.46   0.42       0.40     0.26   0.26   0.15   0.15
Sebib                     0.46   0.57      0.47      0.55   0.55. 0.55   0.55
Kalsa Khasba              0.25   0.23      0.16      0.16   0.16   0.16   0.16
Total Underground Mines   3.83   4.10       3.69     3.78   3.61   3.31   3.06.
Ouen Pits
Kef Schfair               3.34   3.21       3.28     3.60   3.60   3.60   3.6J
Our  1 Mhecheb           1.04   1.74       1.50     2.00   2.00   1.50   1.00
Oued El Khafsa            0.10   0.34       0.42     0.60   0.60   0.60   0.60
M'Dilla/M'Zinda           0.42   0.51       0.39     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Moulares                  0.21   0.20      0.16      0.20   0.20   0.10   0.05
Redeyef                   0.18   0.21      0.20     0.20   0.20   0.20   0.40
Redeyef s/traitance       0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00   0.50   0.30   0.00
Kef Eddour                0.20   0.31       0.22     0.30   0.70   1.00   1.50
Jellabia (afflmts)        0.00   0.00      0.00      0.10   0.40   0.70   0.70
Total Open Pit            5.48   6.52       6.15     7.00   8.20   8.00   7.85
GM TOL
UNDERGRouND + P01N PIT    9.31  10.62       9.84    10.78  11.82  11.31  10.92
Underground Nines
Production (S)            41     39         37       35     31     29     28
Source: Compagnie des phosphates do Gafsa
3014Ltl 3



- 77 _                          ANNEX XIV
TUNISIA
PUBUCETERRSREFORM LOAN
CEM  COST SUCTURE - VARIABLE AND FDKED CASH COSTS - 1988
(DiaariToa)
Undertround Mines              Open Pit Mines
High Cost        Low Cost    High Cost      Low Cost
M'Dilla          Moulares    Moulares      Oum El Khecheb
Variable Costs
Personnel                3.26             1.19         1.07            0.33
Otherv'                  3.32             0.95         2.9             1.21
Sub-Total                6.58             2.14         2.36            1.54
Fixed Costs
Personnel                3.17             1.58         1.24            0.42
otherL'                  2.45             0.53         0.14            0.16
Sub-Total                5.62             2.11         1.38            n.58
TOTAL COSTS             12.20             4.25         3.74            2.12
~' Includes other cash operating costs.
20 14 Iu 1



- 78 -
T    .                                     s~~~M    XV
PUDUC DTMRPREE REFORM LOAJ
,oapagai, ttt Phospates it Gatsa
1381t913  luesat t Piopas
l106    118?    11M         118       1990    111       1192      1113
Price  ade:                               t1.00      1.03     1.14      1.21      1.28      1.x       1.44     1.52
On"   Lw       ta                       341.009  3817,20   382,t09  401,IS4  421,14  441,264  "I0'    414,44
lmal dactatio  all                       11.043   19.454   20,113   21,151   21.310   22,813   22,31    22.311
lamact plu                                 1986      191      1ots      1981      10is      1111      li11     1113
U        bery le.ref                0         a    1O,00    2,612           0        0         0         8
a        Pcej.ctalI S7                        0    1,500          0        0         0         0         0         0
a        Ie,aI on sdi ra.                     °                   0        0         0         0         0         a
a   kut.ui    iuchfai                    0              500       1,000         0         I         0         0
*        Ieeett lJeblu                        0          0       0    2,500         0         0         0         0
a        kcsaituoaial ikipant                 0         0         0    1,843    3,1700    4,000    4,000    4,013
S        Deh  waaey  let Itdevt               0    1,700    1,800    7,300    1,006    3,706             0         0
a        latwhi atsue aind Dent.              0    31800    3.100    4.600    S,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
I        Por I&cfout                          0    1,700    2.100    2,0         2.60    2.600    2,100    2,601
a elace.at atd  isc.                0    1,500    1,500    3,000    3,000    2.00          2,000    2.000
otal                                      0   18,200   15,000   25,455   22.300   17,300   13,600   13.501
Soucce: Compagnie des phosphates de Gafsa



-  79 -                               ANNEX XV\
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
CPG - PERSONNEL EVOLUTION
1980- 1988
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Total Workforce (Thousand)  13.3  13.8  14.0  14.9  14.0  13.5  12.0  11.0  11.0
Wage Bill (Million TD)        24.1  29.2  35.3  43.4  48.1  48.0  46.7  45.0  47.5
Wage Bill as a 2 of
Sales revenues            33%   36S   401   431   46S   482   43S   432   33%
Source: Compagnie des phosphates de Gafsa
3014L/10



- 80 -                  ANNEXILJaL
PUDLIC ENTE RI   REFORM LOAN
COAGN.IE DES pHOSPHATES OE GAFSA (CPG)
STAFF REDUCtSON PRO.RA.
YEAR      Staff    E.R.       Redoployment   N.R. &   Annual staff   Staff    E.R. 1/
1-1-N    Phase                     MiSCe,    reduction     31-12-N  Phase  #3
1989    10.764     343            0           45         388           10,376       0
1990    10,376     28S          100           47         432            9,944       0
1991     9,994       0          300           59         359            9.S85     S16
1992     9.635       a         32             _                          .20      _
TOTALS                           5            1                                    222
N.B.  E.R. - Early retirement
N.R. - Nonmal retirement
1/ Government could not commit to implementing the E.R. Phase J3 prior to
discussions with the mining unions and the Hinistry of Social Affairs.
ESTIHATEO COSTS OF THE REDEPLOYMENT PROGRMA
1959 - 1991
Number of     Amount
YEAR    _ EmlOX22S    (Million TO it
1990           100            1.1
1991           300            2.7
1991                           . Li
TOTAL          725            7.0
aI 1988 Tunisian Dinar
Sourco: Compagnie des phosphates de Gafsa
3014L/lS



- 81 ^                      AJFEX 3;X.L
ZUNIBII
PUBLiC EN=fPRISE REFOBM LOAN
C,ONpAGNIE DES PHOSPHAT DE GAESA
FINANcIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1981-1993
TABLE 1.  BLALSE-
m a2                        199 2i im           1993
(TD mllion)        - ----
Net Income (Loss)              (11.9)   (12.7)    (9.6)       8.2     30.3      43.0
Gross Cash Flow                 30.9     30.8      32.6      52.7     71.0      80.0
Debt Service                    39.7     44.7      34.8      33.5     31.9      30.8
Goverment Financial
Assistance                    39.5     31.6      22.8       6.9      6.1       5.5
Current Ratio                    0.4      0.45      0.47      0.49     0.63      1.05
Debt Service Coverage ratio    0.78        0.69     0.94      1.57     2.22      2.6
TUmNISIA
PUBLIC ENTENPRISE REFORM LOAN
COMPAGNIE DES PHOSPHATE DE GAFSA
TABL_2. SENSITIVITY: 3X LOweR PRICES In REAL TERNS
;2 ma              19m9 1 l22 a19921
(TD million) 
net Income (Los)               (11.9)   (17.0)   (14.5)    (3.0)    12.2        18.4
Gross Cash Flow                 30.9      26.3     27.5      41.0     52.2      55.5
Debt Service                    39.7     44.7      34.8      33.5     31.9      30.8
Government Fuinncal
Assistance                     39.5      36.6     27.8      18.9     23.1      28.5
Curraent Ratio                   0.4       0.45     0.47      0.49      0.63     1.05
Debt Service Coverage ratio    0.78        0.59     0.79      1.22      1.64     1.8



- 82 -                   A'4X XZX
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTEIIR1E REFORM LOAN
GRO_E CHIMIQUE: PRODUCTION DATA BY COMPANY
T98-19i88
A. SOCETE INDUSTRIELLE D'ACIDE PHOSPHORIQUE ET D'ENGRAI 
Operates three plants in Sfax and La Skhirat: Siape A, B and SIARS 11, in
service since 1952, 1964 and 1988 respectively.
1986            .987            1988
Installed Capacity
TSP                              550              550             550
Phos. Acid                       -                330             330
Production
TSP                              552              551             500
Phos. Acid                       -                -               236
Capacity utilization
TSP                              100l             1001             901
Pho.. Acid                       -                  0.             721
L. WDURIE CHIMIQUE DE GAIS (CG)
Operates one plant in Gafe& In service sine* 1985.
1986            1987            1988
Installed capacity (TSP)              400             400             400
Production                            369             420             424
Capacity utillzation                   921            105S             106S
30 t4L/'S



- 83-                           NNEX XIX
Page 2 of 3
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
GROUPE CHMIIQUE: PRODUCTION DATA BY COMPANY
1986-i988
C. ENGRAIS DE GABES (EG)
Operates 2 plants in Gabes, EGI and 2, in service since 1974 and 1986
respectively.
1987            1988
Installed Capacity
MAP                                              O00             200
DAP                                              400             400
NPIK                                             500             S00
Production
MAP                                               55              58
DAP                                              109             186
NPK                                                              128
D. SOCIETE ARABE DES ENGRAS PHOSPHATES ET AZOTE (SAEPA)
operates two plants in Gabes: SAEPA 1 and 2 in operation since 1979 and 1983
respectively.
1986            1987            1988
Installed Cavacitv
P205                             270             270             270
DAP                              330             330             350
AN                               330             330             330
Production
PaOS                             255             299             269
DAP                              343             362             360
AN                               174             194             218
Capacity utilization
PaOS                              942            I1I%             99.62
DAP                              1041            1101            1032
AN                                53S             59S             661



- 84 _
- 84                   ~~~~~ANNEX XIX
Page 3 of 3
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
DIDUSTRIE CHDIMQUE MAGHREBINE (ICM)
Operates three plants in Gabes: ICM 1, 2 and 3 in service since L972, 1974
and 1982 respectively.
1986            1987            1988
Installed Capacity
P205                             400              400             400
DCP                               40               45              45
Production
PaO5                             372              334             345
DCP                                35              40              55
Capacity utilization
P205                               93S             842             86%
DCP                               881              89             1221
Source: Groupe chimique
30 14L/24



- 85 -A.,E
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR
GROUPE CHIMIQUE: OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE
------SIAPE-------      --       -
(TD millions)   (%)       (TD millions)   (%)
Tunisia                                    15.5        51            10.2        51
Tunisian Government                       4.3        14             2.6        13
Central Bank                              6.7        22             3.8        19
Compagnie Phosphates Gafsa                3.2        11             0.6         -
Others                                    1.3         4             3.2        16
Foreign
P.1.C. Ki-ait                            14.8        49             9.8       .49
Total Paid-up Capital                      30.3       100            20.0       100
-----ICG-- -   -Engrais Gabes (EG)-
(TD millions)   (2)    (TD millions)   (2)
Tunisia                                    10.2        51             3.6        51
BTKD                                      3.3        17             0.5         7
STUSID                                    2.5        12             0.5         7
SIAPE                                     2.4        12             0.6         8
1CM                                       0.1        10             1.8        26
Others                                    1.9                       0.2         3
Foreign
P.I.C. Kuwait                             9.0        49             3.4        49
Total Paid-up Capital                      20.0       100             7.0       100
---SAEPA-
(TD millions)   (2)
Tunisia                                    25.2        60
Tunisian Governmnt                       15.7        38
Central Bank                              7.9        19
Compagnie Phosphates Gafsa                1.1         2
SIAPE                                     0.3         1
Foreign
Abu D'Habi Fund                          16.8        40
Total Paid-up Capital                      42.0       100
Source: Groupe chimique
30 14L'ZS



-86 -                   ANNEX xxr
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
PUBIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
GROUPE CHThUQUE: PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
TABLE 1. CONSOLIDATED INCOME SrATEMENT
1980       1982        1984        1987
-     (in '000 TDA)-
Sales Revenues                         152,323    195,412    287,542    298,714
Less cost of goods sold                101,206    132,378    210.248    235.807
Gross margin                             51,11?     43,034      77,294      62,907
Salaries                                  8,528     11,094      17,489      23,119
Others operating expenditures            18.537     24.672      32.795      39.925
Cash generated from operations           24,052       7,268     27,010        (137)
Depreciation                             10,712      11,006     19,472      27,828
Interest expenses
- short teu                             1,193      4,131      12,601      22,682
- long & o diu3 term                   5,436       5,786      10,931      17,638
Sxchange ;_sse                            161        (280)     7.671      30.410
Net Tacome                                6,550    (13,375)   (23,665)   (98,694)
30 14 L3Y



- 87 -
PUBLIC ENTERIIISE REFORM LOAM
lrBE2     Re  C0IMIOUI   10,7 - BASIC fINANCIAL DATA
SIAPt      IC"       ice       SAEPA     E. G.     TOTAL
SaJlatRUnMUU  (Million OT)
Export                              62.6      92.5     55.8        85.4      35.0      331.3
Local                                _         2.          _        9.S        _       _Z1 .
TOTAL                                   Ts-I       W.4        35.0 2.  94.7  55.8
Number of Staff                     1,844      l,SO       S24      1,110      260       S.265
Not Incom (Million Ot)              (18.8)    (26.0)    (8.7)      (35.0)        -      (88.5)
Medium and long term (MLT)
Debt outttanding  as at 31/12l7    150.6       81.0      20.0      133.6       15.0     400.2
Debt/Debt + Equity Ratio              A/        A/       72/28       A/       82118
Cash generated from operations      (4.7)      (1.0)      0.3        5.9        5.9      14.51    *
orations                        7.7       4.0        -         10.9        1.7       24.3
- Long & Medium Term Debt           i9                                _8
TOTAL               H.        14.5       44. 1,.7              2.64.
Exchange Losses                     (1.0)     (4.2)       -        (12.1)      (1.7)     (19.0)
Al Negative Equity.
3014LJ28



- 88-                      ANN=Ex XXI
Page I of 4
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
RAILWAY SUBSECTOR (SNCFT)
Introduction
1.       The Tunisian National Railway Company, SNCFT, plays a dominant role
in bulk transport (about 1.4 billion ton-km in 1988), although its
participation in passenger (main line and suburban) and freight traffic still
account for 162 and llS of the total traffic in the country, respectively.
However, SNCFT suffers from institutional, operational and financial
deficiencies, at a time in which the relative importance of the railways in
Tunisia's transport syste!- is expected to continue declining. This annex
describes briefly the above deficiencies in the framework of the Performance
Contract to be agreed between SNCFT and the Government. A more detailed
background report on Tunisia's railway subsector is available in the Project
File.
rnstitutional
2.       The definition of SNCFT's status and obligations is currently
unclear. On the one hand the railway has a clear economic role in freight
movement, bulk in particular, and there is no reason why SNCFT's financial'
performance should be deficient. On the other hand SNCFT's competitive edge
has been dulled by Government interference in management, and by promoting
inadequate cost recovery and low efficiency. SNCFT, as one of the biggest
compantes in the country, has been used by the Government as a tool for its
social policy, by inadequate controls of its tariffs, staffing, investments
and operations.  Thus, the  distinction between SNCFT as a comercial
enterprise and as an agent of the Government's social policy has become
blurred, greatly contributing to its present relatively poor financial and
operating performance. The relationship between its management and the
Gove-rment is ill-defined and lacks transparency, particularly with respect to
subsidies and investments. Moreover, SNCFT lacks adequate management tools -
such as corporate planning, strategic objectives, i.e. a long-term view of the
role of the railways in the total transport system, and financial discipline.
The Government has now recognized these deficiencies within SNCFT and its own
relationship with it and has decided to reform SNCFT into a financially
autonomous and comnwrcially-oriented transport company operating in a
progressively deregulated transport market. Overall, SNCFT will follow a
tariff policy of long-term marginal cost-recovery, consistent with Government
strategy for competing transport modes. Those services which cannot I-,
profitable but which the Goverruent wants SNCFT to perform have been
identified and their costs will now be better quantified so that appropriate
Government compensation mechanisms will be established.
Ogerational
3.       In the past, maintenance of equipment and tracks has suffered due to
lack of spare parts and other inputs needed for maintenance. Improvements in



- 89 -                     MNMEX XXIt
Page 2 of 4
workshop facilities and even routine maintenance to ensure a higher
availability of and more reliable rolling stock are overdue. Track repairs
and rehabilitation, on several important sections, but more especially in the
phosphate mining area around Gafsa and in the Tunis-Kalaa Khasba and Bordj
Cedria-Sousse lines have assumed high priority. In addition, staff
productivity has to be improved through gradual decreases in their number by
attrition (some 200 per annum), some redeployments, limited recruitment mostly
in the professional and highly skilled categories (some 50 per annum) and an
expanded training program. All the above points will be included in the
performance contract and performance will be monitored using a few easily
verifiable indicators, as summarixed below (1989-91).
INDICATORS                          1989       1990        1991
Staff productivity
(Traffic units (TU)/staff millions)        0.368      0.387       0.407
Productivity of traction
equipment (TUI/loco., in millions)        18.80       19.40      20.04
Productivity of passenger cars
(Passenger-Kilometer/seat, in millions):
- main line                               0.045       0.049      0.053
- suburban line                           0.016       0.015      0.016
Productivity of freight cars for
general cargo (Ton-Kilometer/
ton capacity, in millions)                 0.015       0.015      0.014
Turnaround of freight cars for
general cargo (days)                         4.6         4.2        4.0
Turnaround of freight cars for
phosphates (days)                            1.8         1.8        1.7
Locomotive availability (2)                    54          60         70
Investments.
4.       SNCFT undertook heavy investments during the last 10 years
primarily to increase its capacity in order to retain its market share,
unmindful of economic considerations. Some of these investments have
contributed to increases in the level of service, and combined with
below-cost tariffs for passenger services, led to some gains in market
shares. However, these investments have not been capable of reversing the
overall declining trend. Rather, they have increased the debt service
liability vithout corresponding benefits, thereby highlighting their
uneconomic nature, particularly for passenger services.
5.       To improve SNCFT's financial situation, current and future
investments would have to fulfill appropriate economic criteria like
explicit cost/benefit analyses and threshold levels for return on
investments, besides being oriented to better maintenance and being modest



- 90-                     AINEX  It
Page 3 of 4
in compadiso with the past. At the sam time, ongoing projects which are
in an advanced stage of implemntation should proceed wherever this is
economicallY Justified. Simultaneously, the capacity of existing services
and lines has to be protected through increased emphasis on intensive
maintenance, adequate supply of spare parts, etc., so that SNCFT can compete
effectively with other transport enterprises. SNCFT and the Government have
now agreed to limit investments for the Vltth Plan period to MD 163 million,
which is 2a5 below the TD 214 million formerly planned for 1987-91. In
addition, the performance contract between SNCFT and the Government will
specify that SNCFT will submit future investments to economic analysis, and
that in no case would an investment yielding an economic rate of return
below 10 be considered.
Tariffs and Traffic
6.       Current tariffs for freight traffic seem appropriate and are
estimated to cover long-term marginal cost (including investment); tariffs
for main line passenger traffic do not cover long-term marginal cost but are
estimated to cover direct operating costs (fixed and variable); tariffs for
suburban passenger traffic do not even cover variable operating costs.
Under the performance contract, the Government and SNCFT would reach
agreement on the periodic increases of tariffs so that: (M) freight traffic
will continue to cover long-term marginal cost; (ii) main line passenger
traffic will gradually approach long-term marginal cost with the Government
making up the difference in the interim period; it is estimated that by 1993
the coverage rate would reach about 501; and (iii) suburban passenger
traffic would gradually cover variable operating costs, with the Government
making up for the difference between tariffs and long-term iarginal cost; it
is estimated that by 1993 the variable operating cost coverage rate would
reach about 100l. For exonerated traffic (e.g. students, service men, etc.)
the Government would also compensate SNCFT on the basis of the long-term
marginal costs incurred with such traffic. The above is the result of the
Bank analysis of figures provided by SNCFT based on its existing accounting
system which requires upgrading. SNCFT will improve its cost accounting
system to enable more adequate cost computations and the resulting tariff
levels and Government subsidies. Moreover, to ensure fiscal neutrality
between the railway and the competitive road transport mode, the Ministry of
Transport will carry out a study to update information on road user charges
and costs and msake recommndations on required adjustments to ensure the
coverage of long-tern marginal cost of road use, including externalities.
7.       Assuming tariff increases of 61 p.a. in real term  for main line
passenger traffic and 21 p.a. for suburban passenger traffic, a reduction in
main line passenger traffic of some 101 by 1993 and increases in the rest of
the traffic of about 101 by 1993 can be expected (Annex XXIII). The traffic
project'ons reflect the foreseeable level of GDP growth and the evolution of
the rel yive level of railway tariffs with respect to road tariffs, in a
progressively deregulated transport market. For main line passenger



-91 -                      ANNEX XXIt
Page 4 of 4
traffic, most of bhich takes place in the corridor Tunis-Sfax-Gabes, the
GovernUSUt Vill carry out a study to analyze demand management issues taking
account of tariff levels for both rail and road as well as the level of
service and regulatory aspects relating to both modes.
Financial Situation and Outlook
8.       SNCFT's financial situation has worsened over the last seven years:
net losses increased from TD 13 million in 1981 to an estimated TD 44
million in 1988. While operating cash flow has improved from a TD 2 million
deficit in 1981 to break-even in 1988, SNCFT'S debt service requirements
have increased from TD 10 million in 1982 to TD 40 million in 1988 and,
consequently, net internal cash generation worsened from a TD 16 million
deficit in 1982 to a TD 47 million deficit in 1988. Government transfers
were needed to cover these deficits and to finance investments not financed
by borrowings which have hovered around TD 45 million per year. The
expected tariff increases of para. 7 above, together with the increases in
operational efficiency and reduction of investments would result in reduced
budgetary allocations of around TD 55 million p.a. (compared to about
TD 75 million p.a. without the above measures) and an improvement in SNCaT's
financial situation: its operating cash flow would improve from nil in 1988
to about TD 16 million by 1993, and its net internal cash generation would
improve from a TD 47 million deficit in 1988 to a TD 22 million deficit by
1993. Financial indicators are provided in Annex UXIV. Given its past
heavy investment progeam and associated debt service obligations, SNCFT's8
fitnacial equilibrium will not be achieved until after 1993.



92 -
ANNE XX III
y Tratte        . lOVf -a
(in million unit-ks)
PasseQXrs      Passengers
* .                  ~flSLSuburb       Utl8 1   r&t
1961                  337            67n           62             1 92         * n.728
1962                  337            Su            521             lOU         2.514
1983                  301            SOS           $94            1.217        2.618
194                  296             452            10            1.076 £,.43S
198                 2t0             464            711              99         2.448
19"                   V7             47            781            1.098        2.629
1987                 270             s2            64             1.193        2.764
1988                  932            710           88n            1.256        3.118
1969                  342            708           512            1.323        3.243
1990                  348            "81           902            1.M2         3.319
991                   3S3            670           934            1,382       32.48
1992                 3 8             651           96?            1.282        3.359
i992                 363            433          1.002            1.382        3.360
Greowt Rate
(1968-199)           3.651         .2.271         2.MCI            1.90         1.37
1961-1966: actual 1969-1993: pro2ected.
Source: Mission ettites based on f *ues pofvdee byw O and SNCF
March 1969



nu        am te                nuTq'uiwmln. anam
Total traffic. ailli". 1Us        2*617      2.762     3. I"      3.120      3.264     3.346     3.246      3.346     3.46
Total reve_s I'                  J11 1       2 .240    62660    66. 109    73.373    12.351    91S19       9"797   101.OS
Operating ltce"                 421.2261  (1.1    (30.l012)  (26.194)  (26.02?)  422.62?)  (2 0.3)   46.1591   (2.6971
Profit after tax  *              35.714   (331461  MA 476651   4          61   (43.06661  140.211  (36.623)   21.464)  (11.0541
ross inteal cash
_ terao  as                         a               (6.202)   46.7221   45.47))   41.438)    1.762        4.131     7.027
let cas  swplUss-d6ficit               0         a          0    (1.9161  (15.62)   (.901)   (4.275)   25.240    17.112
Oebt service coverge ratio             0.0       0.0        0.0      (6.21      (0.11      6.0        0.6       0.1        0.2
CArwrot ratio                          1.4       0.7        *.6       0.6        0.4       0.6        0.6       0.7        1.2
LT deblaitv ratto                      0.5       8.4        0.4       0.4        0.2       0.3        0.2       0.1        0.0
1.uity In Iof total ossots            41.31     40.61      35.6      37.3S      37.7      40.1       45.O1 *.9           66.6
Usking ratio                        111       11I%       to"1      to0         9"        931        09        an         an
*     195-39OW    are actual figures; 19U:  estimated;  1969-199:  projected.
*-    oeore Gev6rammit contributots.
Source: nssion esttmtes based on foiures provided by SNCT.



- 94 -
Page 1 of 6
TUNISIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES LREORM  LOAN
URBAN TRANSPORT ENTERPRISES
Sectoral Background
The last two decades have seen a transformation of Tunisia into an
urban-dominated economy and society. The capital region of Tunis leads with
about 1,600,000 people, followed by Sfax at 300,000 and another dozen cities
between 100,000 and 300,000 people. Given a low level of auto ownership (only
181 of households in Greater Tunis ara motorized), efficient functioning of
urban economies and the general standard of living therein are linked closely
to availability and performance of public transport services.
Scheduled public transport services in Greater Tunis are assured
by street buses operated by Soci4td Nationale don Transoorts (SNT), two urban
rail lines operated by Socidth de M6tro lAggr de TMns (SMLT), and suburban
comuter rail lines operated by Societd Nationale dqeCe  n     or Tunisiens
(SNCFT). Outside Tunis, some 12 public bus companies serve Sfax, Sousse,
Bizerte and other provincial centers, providing both urban and regional
passenger services. Excluding the SNCFT, the sector employes about 15,000
people Y Until now, the only private providers of transport services have
been in the non-scheduled (hereafter called paratransit) category, where about
10,600 taxis and voitures de louage (VDL) add another 15,000 to sector
employment.W VDLs are authorized to operate fixed-route interurban services,
but also provide regional transport in hinterlands of larger cities like Tunis
and Sousse.
Throughout their existence, public enterprises working in urban
and regional Lransport (PTEs) have had difficulties in both service and
financial dimensions of their operations. These difficulties culminated in the
mid-1980s and can be traced to two major factors, each of wbich prevails in
varying degrees. throughout many Tunisian PEs, whether in the industrial,
commercial or service sectors. In public transport however, the impact of
these factors is particularly severe. The first factor has been the pursuit of
a policy that social objectives should override normal commercial objectives
and practices of PTEs, applied without a clear definition of the "social*
services required or sufficient public resources to compensate for the
consequences on enterprise revenues and costs. This approach has mainly
affected the service and revenue dimensions of PT% operations, notably through
the adoption of discount fares for the young nd other social groups, the
maintenance of regular fares at levels well below that needed to cover total
operating costs, and the practice of developing route networks without
relation to commercial objectives. On the production (cost) side, social
1J/ The SNT has about 4,900 staff, the SMLT has 990, and provincial companies
have 9400 (1987 data).
2/ Of 10,600 taxis and VDLs, the latter account for less than 3,000 vehicles.



- 95 -
Page 2 of 6
objectives have led to the use of PTEs to absorb otherwise unemployed labor.
The second factor contributing to financial difficulties of PTEs has been a
very favorable salary agreement, negotiated in 1983 by an unusually strong
workers' union, first for the SIT and then extended to cover all PTEs. The two
factors have combined to create a financially troubled PTE sector, fraught
with internal inefficiencies and unable to deliver public services for which
PTEs had been created. On the paratransit side, administrative constraints on
service authorizations and import licences, coupled with a punitive tax
structure, led to an illegal market for transport permits, a low profit margin
for actual operators and an inadequate supply of services.
At the end of 1987, the accumulated deficit of the SNT alone
reached about TD 28 million and that of provincial PTEs about TD 71 million.
The short term debt of the SNT was TD 36 million (86X of total debt); another
TD 96 million was owed by provincial FTEs. It being clear that the available
public resources would not suffice to pay all the subsidies and finance badly
needed renewal and expansion of fleets and facilities, the Government of
Tunisia commenced activities to reform the sector. The strategy has been four-
fold:
(i)   Breaking up provincial PTEs, and setting up their freight
divisions as separate companies, with intent to deregulate
freight transport, attract private sector involvement as
rapidly as possible, and otherwise minimize government
intervention in it.
(ii) Financial restructuring of PTEs, to "wipe the slate clean'
and provide positive net worth and working capital. The
restructuring plans mad. so far have primarily involved
writing off debts owed to the State and consolidation of
other debts, an essentially static or bookkeeping approach,
which has not addressed the intrinsic inconsistencies in PTE
objectives or efficiency issues.
(iii) Reforming the relationship between PTs, which remained in
the passenger-carrying business, and their technical
tuto.le. Ministry of Transport (KTR). This activity is just
beginning and involves a "dynamic", sustainable
restructuring through the development and signature of
performance contracts, which would separate commercial from
social objectives of PTE's and specify appropriate
compensation for the latter, subject to specific operational
and managerial performance commitments. This approach is
intended to permit PTEs to provide setvices demanded by the
community, while maintaining financial viability and
efficient operations, on a sustained basis.



- 96 -
Page 3 of 6
(tv)  Stimulating the entry of private operators into the road
transport sector, with twin objectives of private resource
mobilization and greater efficiency in providing services.
For urban passenger transport, private operators are
expected to play a role complementary to PTEs, whereas for
intercity transport, particularly freight, a complete
privatization is envisaged. Deregulation is also underway
for paratransit modes, taxis and VDLs, accogvanied by fiscal
and credit moves to stimulate sector development.
Actions concerning (i) above have been completed, while items (ii)
and (iii) are being introduced on a phased basis, as overall dynamic
restructuring programs are prepared. Financial restructuring of the SNT has
been approved; a draft contract program has been prepared and is now going
through the process of refineoent and negotiation (see below). As for other
PTEs, restructuring plans have been made and approved in principle, but the
necessary legal action on debt conversion and consolidation remains to be
concluded. Draft performance contracts for the SELT and provincial PTs are
under preparation; it is expected that the financial restructuring will be
finalized within the framework of negotiating these contracts.
With regards to item (iv) of the above strategy, the
liberalization of the road transport market, some practical developments are
accompanying or even preceding the adoption of the necessary legal and
regulatory instruments. Negotiations are underway to authorize two private
companies to comence passenger transport services in Greater Tunis, as a
complement to the SNT operations. This will involve some SO mid-size buses,
operating on 12 lines in a first class (seat only) mod. Other recently
announced actions concern the paratransit mode: import and other taxes for
VDLs and taxis will be substantially reduced, decreasing vehileo purchase
prices by about 45X; fleet renewal will be stimulated through easier access to
credit; a new, nine-seat, shared taxi service will be introduced in urban
areas; and the current six-seat limit for VDLs will be increased to nine.
Also, market entry rules for passengr transport vill be simplified, aiming at
expansion of the supply and elimination of the secondary market in paratransit
service permits. The regulatory innovations will appear in dcrts
dn1aulican of the 1985 transport law, which have been in the making since
the law wv adopted, but are now in the final stage of development.
Soeidtd               T       rts (SNT)
The SNT's 4925 staff operate a fleet of 713 buses on a 2250-ke
network of 154 urban and suburban lines in Greater Tunis, producing about 34.8
million bus-km (2,690 million place-ki) per year. It is by far the most
important public transport operator in the region, carrying about 220 million
trips a year (79Z of all trips made by conventional public transport and about
SO of all motorized trips). One third of these trips are made by school



- 97 -
Page 4 of 6
children and university students using lnexpensive monthly passes (TD 20 for a
9-month period, translating into a 902 discount relative co average fare
paid). Regular fares are controlled by the Government as a matter of social
policy concerning the purchasing power of the population. They change
infrequently (twice since 1983) and without relation to trends in costs of
inputs; at present the average fare paid (excluding school passes) is about TD
0.170 per boarding.
The SNT's patronage has been falling since 1981. when it carried
236 million trips, largely because the fleet investments made during the VIth
and VIIth plan period wvre insufficient even to renew the fleet at its 198:
level of 730 buses. This is due to the SNT being financially dependent on the
Government, which in the 1980s has not been willing to make substantial
investments in this enterprise, while at the same time spending an estimated
TD 170 million on a competing, light-rail system, WHtro LAghr de Tunis. Since
1980, the Government has contributed TD 27 million for school pass
compensation and TD 35 million 'equilibri'wm  subsidy to the SNT. The company
covers only 70S of its TD 38.7 million operating costs through ticket revenue,
while the Governmsnt contributions account for another 21S. The remaining gap
of 92 has been financed through a build-up of unpaid contributions to social t
security, arrears and short term debt to suppliers and banks. The failure to
identify and fully compensate for operating losses due to the social functions
of the SNT, combined with a lack of managerial freedom in personnel.
purchasing and service planning matters, led to overstaffing and internal
inefficiencies. Of its 713 buses in 1987, about 530 operated in peak periods.
giving a peak to total utilization factor of 742; in preceding years, this
factor fell as low as 671. Judged by an upper-limit standard of 8 staff per
bus in peak circulation, at the present levels of fleet utilization, the
company has 600-1,000 extra staff, while at the same time suffering from a
shortage of skilled drivers and higher-level professionals. Soe extra staff
are in the maintenance department, but most are in the administrative
department. The resulting higher costs of operation further aggravated the
deficit, which by the end of 1987 had accumulated to about TD 28 million
(compared to total assets of TD 32.7 million); short-term debt of TD 35.8
million represents 85.62 of total debt.
It is now proposed to restructure the SNT in two steps. The first
is a financial restructuring, the objectives of which are to recreate positive
net worth of the ST and provide sufficient working capital without recourse
to short term lons. The Government has approved a restructuring plan
including a conversion of unpaid public debt of TD 23.3 million into equity,
debt consolidation of TD 2.3 million, and a medium term loan of TD 9.6 million
to be financed through a public bond issue. The second step involves a package
of measures, to be undertaken by the Government and the SNT, which would
diminish or remove structural causes of the latter's financial and technLcal
problems. A draft performance contract, which records a development scenario
for the SNT and specific commitments of both parties from 1989 to 1991, has
been prepared by the enterprise and is being considered by the hM.



- 98 -
ANNEX XXV
Page 5 of 6
Actig. agreed under the PMR
As a condition for loan effectiveness, a draft performance
contract, agreed between the SNT and the ZTR, will be submitted to the Bank
for review, prior to its approval by CAREPP. Its signature by the SNT and the
KTR, after approval by CAREPP, and satisfactory progress on its implementation
is a condition of second tranche release.
The main elements of the performance contract, to be satisfied by
the SNT, would be as follows:
(i)   Develggment straeg. The SNT will prepare for a
redefinition of its transport role in Greater Tunis, vis-a-
viS HItro -JAgr de Tunis, the SNCFS and private operators,
following the completion of an on-going modal coordination
study (expected in the fall 1989).
(ii) Fleet Investments. The SNT will limit its fleet investments
to a level of 800 buses, as authorized under the VIlth Plan.
(iii) Reduction of services. The SNT will identify corridors and
lines which should be offered to private operators.
(iv)  Staffi.g For 1991, SNT will adopt a staffing target of 8.0
per bus in peak operation, of which no more than 2.0 in non-
opoerational departments. This norm would be revised downward
in subsequent performance contracts. With a fleet of 800
buses, of which 640 in peak operation (assuming that fleet
availability and utilization targets cited below would be
met), the above target would require a net staff increase of
about 200 from the current staff of 4925, over the three
year period. In addition, this will require major
restructuring of the work force, inclusive of retraining and
retiring substantial segments of the existing staff. The SNT
will prepare a personnel action plan and the Government will
pledge financial and other support with indemnity payments
and retraining costs.
(v)   ProductiviZE. The SNT will make a comitment to increase its
fleet availability and staff productivity, with 1991 targets
of 80X for the ratio of peak to total buses and 9,000
revenue bus-km per staff per year, in addition to other
economies identified in the draft performance contract.
(vi) Cost accountina. The SNT will upgrade its cost accounting
system to permit the estimation of costs and revenues on a
route-by-route basis.



_ 99 _
Page 6 of 6
(vii) Travel at reduce fares. The SNT will develop a method to
estimate the amount of travel by beneficiaries of reduced
faros, school children, students, civil servants and others.
The major elements of the performance contract, to be satisfied by
the Government, are as follows:
(i)   Unit commensation. The Ministry of Transport will agree with
the SNT on average compensation for travel at reduced fares
and compensation for other services which the Government may
demand of the company.
(ii) Comgensation pavmenta. The Government will make a commitment
on an appropriate schedule for paying componsation referred
to above.
(iii) Cost recovery througb fares. In deciding on the SNT's
nominal fares (as opposed to various *social* fares),
economic pricing principles will remain subjugated to social
and political considerations, but the current proportion of
total operating costs recovered through fares will not be
allowed to deteriorate in real terms. Costs of major inputs#
(fuel, vehicles, spare parts, labor) will be monitored and
the Government and the SNT will hold annual fare reviews,
following which the fares will be adjusted.
(iv) Subsidis. To compensate for the constraint on the SNT's
nominal fares, the Government will make a commitment to
cover the difference between operating costs and revenues of
the SNT through capital and/or operating subsidies, subject
to the success of the enterprise in fulfilling service and
productivity commLtments recorded in the performance
contract.



- 100 -
ANNEX XXf
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
SuWo1ementarv Prohe2t Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepere project:                       about 18 mouths
(b) Respons bility for project preparation:              Government/Bank
(c) Project first identified by Bank:                    February 1988
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                              February 1989
(e) Negotiations:                                        May 1989
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                       January 1990
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness (US$ 70 million)
(see paragraph 891
(b) Conditions of Second Tranche Release (USS 60 million)
(see paragraph 891



- 101 -                       Al.EX XXVII
TUNISLI
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN.
Disbursement Schedule
Bank
Fiscal Year                     Quarter                  Cumulative
--(US$ million)-------
FY90
_0.0                     20.0
20.0                     40.0
FY91                            15.0                      55.0
15.0                     70.0
30.0                    100.0
30.0                    130.0
Signing   :  September 30, 1989
Effectiveness (latest)  : January 31, 1990
Completion  :  June 30, 1991
Closing Date  :  December 31, 1991



