Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24025-MD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LENDING (CREDIT)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR THE
RURAL INV.ESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
RURAL SUPPORT SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
MAY 22, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
ECCO9
Europe and Central Asia Regiion



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 29, 2002)
Currency Unit = Moldovan Lei
1.00 Lei = US$0.0741
US$1.00 = 13.487 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACSA         Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture
APCP         Agricultural Pollution Control Project
APC          Adaptable Program Credit
ASF          Agricultural Support Fund
CAPMU        Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA         Country Financial Accounting Assessment
DA           Development Agency
FMR          Financial Management Report
FO           Farmer Organization
GEF          Global Environment Facility
IAS          International Accounting Standards
IDA          International Development Association
LSDP         Letter of Sector Development Policy
MAPI         Ministry of Agriculture and Processing Industry
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
MSBP         Medium-Sized Biodiversity Project
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NBM          National Bank of Moldova
NFSCA        National Federation of Savings and Credit Associations
PFI          Participating Financial Institutions
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RCG          Rural Credit Guidelines
RFC          Rural Finance Corporation
SCA          Savings and Credit Association
SLA          Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SSB          State Supervisory Body
TU           Technical Unit
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Roger Grawe
Sector Director:  Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader:   Hoonae Kim



MOLDOVA
RURAL INV'ESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                        4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
4. Program description and performnance triggers for subsequent loans               10
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     16
3. Benefits and target population                                                    16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        22
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                               23
4. Indications of borrower commnitment and ownership                                 24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         25
2. Financial                                                                        25
3. Technical                                                                        27
4. Institutional                                                                     27
5. Environmental                                                                    29
6. Social                                                                            31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               33



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   34
2. Critical risks                                                                   34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   36
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          36
2. Other                                                                            36
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       69
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 70
Annex 5: Financial Summary of Key Implementing Agencies                                75
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     79
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   88
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 89
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                90
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          92
Annex 11: Sector at a Glance                                                           94
Annex 12: Status of Land Reform                                                        95
Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Policy                                          99
Annex 14: Performance Indicators and Triggers for Phase II                            107
Annex 15: Monitoring and Evaluation System                                            109
Annex 16: Results of the Pilot Project                                                112
Annex 17: Overview of the Banking Sector in Moldova and Assessment of Potential       114
Participating Financial Institutions
Annex 18: Overview of the Savings and Credit Association Development                  124
Annex 19: Summary of the Social Assessment                                            128
Annex 20: GEF Agricultural Pollution Control Project Concept Note                     133
MAP(S)
IBRD 31916



MOLDOVA
RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: May 22, 2002                               Team Leader: Hoonae Kim
Country Director: Roger W. Grawe                 Sector Director: Laura Tuck
Project ID: P060434                              Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data .                           -   . - ,                  -
_  r  -  -     :  I.-  ;   -:  -  -  . Estimated      -.     :
APL       - -, Indicative Financinci Plan      Implernentation Period         Borrower.
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _--_   (Bank   FY)  -_-_-._-_  _
IDA             Others      Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      US$ m        Date        Date
APL1i        10.50   53.3     9.19       19.69    09/30/2002  12/31/2005 Moldova
Loan/
Credit  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2        14.50   65.9     7.50       22.00    07/01/2005  12/31/2009 Moldova
Loan/
C redit __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total       25.00            16.69       41.69    _
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [] Guarantee        O ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$10.5 equivalent
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan-(US$mj:   -Source-   ..                     Local-        Feign          Total
BORROWER                                                      1.19           0.00          1.19
IDA                                                           3.88           6.62         10.50
EC: TECH ASSISTANCE FOR CIS - TACIS                           0.25           0.25          0.50
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IDA FUND                      0.55           1.65          2.20
BORROWING COUNTRY'S FIN. INTERMEDIARY/IES                     1.74           0.01          1.75
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY                 0.56           0.44          1.00
(SIDA)
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                               1.05           0.00          1.05
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                             0.75           0.75          1.50
Total:                                                        9.96           9.72         19.69
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Consolidated Agricultural Projects Managerrient Unit (CAPMU), 9 Cosmonautilor Str., office 523, Chisinau, Republic
Moldova, MD 2005
Address: 9, Cosmonautilor Str.; Room 544; Chisinau; Moldova; MD-2005



Contact Person: Igor Gorashov, General Director
Tel: (373-2) 223 106           Fax: (373-2) 226 994           Email: igorashov@capmu.md
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Finance
Address: 7, Cosmonautilor St., Chisinau, 2005, Moldova
Contact Person: Mrs. Mariana Durlesteanu, Deputy Minister of Finance
Tel: (373-2)228 227           Fax:              Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
!,                          2003    r2004         2005
Annual      0.50       2.00      3.50       4.50
Cumulative     0.50       2.50       6.00      10.50
Project implementation period: FY 2002-FY2005
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OC& APL PAD Fin ft. ,  zx-
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and progranm phasing:
Background. Since Independence in 1991, Moldova's agricultural sector has performed poorly, with a
decline in production, productivity, and exports. Agricultural GDP in 2000 was less than half of its 1990
level. While the overall economy grew by 2% in 2000, agricultural GDP again declined by 3% and
continues to be a drag on the overall economy. Moldova has also experienced the largest fall in GDP in the
Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region with a corresponding large decline in per capita income levels.
There has been an increase in poverty, accompanied by an increase in inequality - the Gini coefficient is
now about twice the pre-reform level, with a fifth of the population receiving about half the income.
Poverty is most severe in rural areas where 54 percent of the population lives. Rural poverty accounts for
68 percent of total poverty when poverty is defined as living on less than US$ 10 per month. The most
recent poverty assessment suggests ithat the poorest of the poor in Moldova are those who comprise the
landless agricultural worker group.
In Moldova, the decline in output and the resulting income and poverty levels are strongly influenced by
poor agricultural performance. The agricultural sector contributes 33% of the GDP, provides over 40% of
employment, and constitutes 65% oF exports; and with beverages included, this figure rises to 80% of the
country's total exports. Agricultural exports are the single most important source of foreign exchange
income. With the agricultural sector's importance to the economy, in terms of GDP, employment,
population, and the large and increa,ing incidence of poverty among the rural population, Moldova will not
be able to achieve sustainable overall economic growth without generating growth in the agricultural sector.
It will not be able to increase export income without addressing impediments that hinder the
competitiveness of this sector. AddAitionally, Moldova will not be able to make an important reduction in
poverty rates unless the continued increase in poverty among new landowners is reversed, and new
landowners are given full rights to their land and are allowed to use it for the most productive purposes.
On a positive note, the recent progrnss on policy reform and the advanced stage of land privatization have
provided an emerging platform for luture recovery and growth. The reform process has been prolonged but
has finally begun to address the fundamental issues - land privatization and farm restructuring - and has
made substantial progress during the last two to three years. Of the more than 1000 state and collective
farms, all but 46 have been privatized, and over three million individual titles had been issued by the end of
2001. Among them, nearly one million "legal persons" became fully registered landowners, and nearly
440,000 private farms had been established, of which 100,000 are legally registered.
Despite the recent declining trends, the agricultural and rural communities have latent capacity to grow.
Moldova has some of the richest soil in the region with very favorable agronomic potential. Its agricultural
sector is endowed with potential comparative advantage in major crops, particularly in high value crops
such as fruits, vegetables, and wine grapes. But this potential for superior agricultural production is
currently unrealized, mainly because of policy, legal, regulatory and institutional inefficiencies. It is
recognized both by the Government of Moldova (GOM) and the IDA that there will have to be a consensus
on a coherent development strategy for the sector that covers the priorities, sequencing, and approaches of
interventions. As the first step, IDA, together with the GOM, has developed the Agricultural Sector
Development Strategy (ESW- P071153), which has identified major impediments to achieving agricultural
recovery and growth. The proposed Program is based on this Strategy.
The Program's objective is to provide long-term support to accelerate agricultural recovery and growth so
that Moldova's agricultural sector can play its full role in providing the underpinnings for future income
growth and poverty reduction.
-3 -



Achieving these goals will take long-term program support, as well as multiple years of policy and
investment support. The first phase of the Adaptable Program Lending (Credit) (APL) will initiate priority
interventions in policy, legal and regulatory reforms, institutional capacity building, technical assistance,
and investment support. An APL has been chosen since the first phase would involve substantial institution
building and develop some of the new concepts to support emerging private farmers from the recent land
privatization. An APL approach will allow the proper sequencing of policy, knowledge, institutional
capacity building, and credit. It will also allow an interim opportunity "to check, balance and modify" the
project design to ensure that the choice of intervention options under the Program is consistent with the
overall strategy. The first phase (FY02-FY05) will focus on creating the foundation and will include
significant support for strengthening an institutional and regulatory framework that will enhance private
economic activities in the agricultural sector, while providing modest investment and complementary
working capital. Once the fundamentals are in place, the second phase will actively provide additional
investment support along with continued institutional support.
The Program complements the Agricultural Strategy for Moldova, which was recently developed, the
Govemment's National Strategy for Agriculture and Agro-processing Development and the World Bank
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Program, including the first phase, will also be closely linked to
the preparation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Third Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC III).
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main development objective of the project is to foster post-privatization growth in the agricultural
sector by improving the access of new private farmers and rural businesses to what they need to succeed -
legal ownership status, knowledge, know-how, andfinance.
While pursuing this objective, the project would help reduce poverty by creating income-eaming
opportunities and improving productivity through complementary technical assistance and investment
support. In this manner, profitability of the investments supported under the project could materialize.
Specific support would include: (a) solidifying private ownership of land and other productive assets; (b)
creating viable rural entrepreneurial legal and organizational structures; (c) establishing a private,
agricultural support services system including advisory, input and output supply, marketing, and business
development support; and (d) establishing a self-sustaining rural finance system to serve a large number of
dispersed rural clients throughout the county.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress toward achieving the project objectives would be tracked through a monitoring and evaluation
(M& E) system built on the results of the Baseline Survey, which was carried out during project
preparation in order to be able to measure the incremental impact of the Program and the project. These
indicators, as well as triggers for the second phase, are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP),
which would be reviewed during regular supervision and at a mid-term review (before December 31, 2003
or before 50% of the first phase APL is disbursed, whichever is sooner); and again, before preparations
commence for the second phase of the APL. Performance indicators of the project and triggers for APL
Phase II are discussed in detail in Annex 14.
The specific performance indicators are discussed in greater detail below.
Sector-wide indicators would include: (a) a more favorable macroeconomic and business environment as
- 4 -



measured by overall economic and sector indicators; (b) a developed land market and emergence of
genuinely restructured farms as measured by the number of land transactions and registered private farms;
(c) increased domestic and export sales of agro-food products as measured by increases in the volume and
amount of agricultural commerce; I'd) improved marketing opportunities, infrastructure and practices, as
measured by increases in the number of registered agro-food distributors, exporters and other participants
in agricultural trade; (e) increased production and productivity in key crop and livestock sub-sectors as
measured in random sarnple farm budget analyses; and (f) increased non-farm economic activities and
employment in rural areas as measured by village level assessments.
Institution and human development indicators would include: (a) higher awareness among farmers
regarding the benefits of organizing themselves as measured by an increase in the number of and
membership in organized and registered farmer groups and associations; (b) full understanding of their
legal rights as land owners as measured by an increase in the number of titles; (c) heightened sense of
private entrepreneurial spirit among newly created private farmers and rural entrepreneurs as measured by
an increase in the number of registered private rural - individual and group - enterprises; and (d)
strengthened post-privatization supiport services and increased access to rural advisory services as
measured by the number of advisory centers and clients which will be confirmed by surveys of client
satisfaction.
Financial indicators would include: (a) an increase in the institutional commercial credit flow to the rural
sector as measured by the number of participating financial institutions (PFIs), i.e. commercial banks and
RFC, and the total volume of credil; (b) the diversification of the rural portfolio as measured by the
composition of actual lending activities of PFIs; (c) continuous compliance of PFI eligibility by at least
three PFIs as confirmed by the National Bank supervision department; (d) improved loan appraisal skills of
PFIs as measured by sound portfolio quality of at least an 85 percent recovery rate for all credit lines; (e)
inclusion and diversification of rural finance system for small-scale, rural clients as measured by an
increase in the number and volume of lending (at least 20 percent of total) under the Special Credit Line; (f)
strengthened regulatory and supervision capacity of SCAs as measured by restored functions to SSB; and
(g) increased rural income as measured by incremental increases in rural household incomes compared to
the Baseline Survey reference data base.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18896-MD Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/07/99
The proposed project is consistent with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), as set forth
in the IBRD, IDA and IFC joint Memorandum dated April 7, 1999. The strategy identifies three main
areas of assistance to improve economic growth and thereby increase the prospects for reducing poverty
and social hardship: macroeconomic sustainability, private sector development, and public sector
reform. The last CAS, which contained background on the economy and Bank operations was distributed
to the Board in May 1999. A CAS Progress Report will be discussed by the Board along with the Third
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) and the proposed project.
The proposed Program and the project support the private sector development objective of the CAS. It
aims to increase incomes and reduce poverty through facilitating the development of private agricultural
enterprises and related post-privatization support service activities in rural areas. To ensure that private
farmers have access to adequate services and information and can operate within an improved incentive
framework, the strategic actions, as stated explicitly in the CAS, would be pursued by the project. In
- 5 -



addition, the findings of the recently completed Agricultural Development Strategy for Moldova provide
foundations for the key policy, legal, institutional and regulatory intervention options being pursued in the
proposed Program and the project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Key policy, structural and institutional issues and constraints of the agricultural sector have been analyzed
in the Agricultural Strategyfor Moldova -Accelerating Recovery and Growth (ESW- June 2001). The
main findings and recommendations were discussed in a public forum, which took place in December 2001,
with the participation of the Govemment, NGOs, civil society, financial institutions, and donors. In
parallel, the Govemrnment has requested IDA support to revitalize the agricultural sector through the
promotion of widely shared economic growth and the reduction of poverty in rural Moldova. The
Agricultural Strategy and the proposed Program constitute a part of such efforts.
Key Factors for Accelerating Agricultural Recovery and Growth in Moldova. Accelerating future
agricultural recovery and growth will require addressing a number of key constraints in the macroeconomic
and business environments, in agro-processing and trade, at the farm level and in non-farm rural
development. The weak public institutional capacity, as well as the newly developed and still fragile
private entrepreneurs in rural areas, must also be taken into consideration if Moldova is to experience
recovery and growth in the agricultural sector and the overall economy. Experiences from the 1990s
confirm that the initial expectations for this transformation may have been overly optimistic, and the
transition process in agriculture is far more complex than originally envisaged. Increased social problems
and poverty have led to a reversal of key policies. If Moldova is to achieve the challenging goal of
regenerating growth in the agricultural sector, outstanding policy issues must be addressed. These include:
(a) the possible reversal in land privatization; (b) the inertia to return to collective farming; (c) increased
Govemment intervention in production, trade and exports; (d) policy distortions regarding state grain
reserves; and (e) the subsidy program to intervene in agricultural crediting.
Macroeconomic Factors. The legal, regulatory, and operating environment in Moldova is not conducive
to overall economic and agricultural growth. Excessive regulation has led to multiple avenues for rent
seeking and corruption. Inconsistent policy design and policy implementation have led to an increase in the
shadow economy, while the sporadic introduction of taxes/bans and their subsequent repeal has led to
uncertainty among agricultural producers. In addition, subsidies for agriculture have been wasted and
should be rationalized to be fiscally affordable, transparent, and targeted with minimum distortions. A poor
investment climate has discouraged new enterprise entry and foreign participation. Finally, the overall
legal and regulatory environment needs to be significantly improved to stimulate investment, trade, and
growth.
Agro-Processing and Trade Related Factors. The slow transformation of the agro-processing sector has
come at a high cost to both farmers and the economy in general. The agro-processing sector has performed
poorly, thereby limiting value added, which, in turn, has contributed to poor export performance. Although
the privatization of agro-processing enterprises has been extensive, the continuing challenge is to bring
about the required enterprise restructuring. Weak exit mechanisms for bankrupt enterprises and poor entry
incentives have prevented necessary enterprise liquidation and restructuring and inhibited the entry of new
enterprises. Vertical integration has started but remains weak. Without further reforms in agro-processing,
returns to investments at the farm level will not be fully realized.
Farm-Level Factors. Although land privatization has largely been completed, many corporate farm
structures continue to closely resemble the old collectives. Many landowners have leased out their land to
- 6 -



previous collective farm directors and many are not fully realizing their rights as landowners. The lack of
contract enforcement has both maintained inefficient farm managers through under or nonpayment to
lessees and created uncertainty for good managers as lessees exit lease agreements prior to the expiration of
lease contracts, retarding on-fann investments. Strengthening land ownership rights, providing appropriate
support services and assisting in the development of a land market are required to ensure the emergence of
genuinely restructured farms which will form the basis for recovery and growth. Additionally,
post-privatization support services for technical, financial and business assistance must be strengthened.
As farmers become more efficient, technological advancement will need to play an increasing role in
generating agricultural growth. Fuithermore, better access to working and investment capital is required to
facilitate future, on-farm investment, and growth, which would require a broadening of rural financial
markets.
Limited Non-Farm Rural Development Factors. In Moldova, non-agricultural, rural development is
currently driven by growth in agriculture - an increase in agricultural income spurs demand for consumer
goods, which induces growth and daiversification in non-farm economic activities. To improve the response
to increases in demand, a favorable environment for new enterprise entry needs to be created and
maintained. This should raise oveiall rural incomes, provide additional resources for agricultural
investments, and increase off-farm employment opportunities to allow surplus labor to leave the
agricultural sector, which will raise labor productivity. The Government must provide the necessary
incentives to encourage new enterprise entry, including improving knowledge, skills and access to capital.
Investments in rural infrastructure, water, telecommunications, education, and health services, can facilitate
non-farm rural development.
Weak Public and Private Institutions. Moldova's institutional environment is in transition. At the
moment, the main public institution providing assistance to agriculture is the Ministry of Agriculture and
Processing Industry (MAPI), which is responsible for, among others things, designing and implementing
strategies for agricultural development, preparing the laws and legal acts for the agriculture and processing
industries, promoting information services, and facilitating business networking in the sector. Other public
institutions, such as customs, fiscal authorities, and law enforcement agencies, also impact agriculture
through their various activities. However, these institutions lack capacity and tend to be driven by a desire
to control private initiative, so they often create numerous barriers to business entry and activity that many
aspiring entrepreneurs find impossipble to surmount. At the same time, private farmers have emerged, and
other private institutions have begun to appear, but they lack necessary information, skills, knowledge, and
productive assets to truly become efficient. A growing nurnber of non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
are also active in rural areas, but their activities and impact are limited and generally localized and they
lack institutional capacity. Few of them provide services to a large number of beneficiaries, and even fewer
cover a significant geographical ar,a.
Government Strategy
During the preparation of the Agricultural Strategy and the project, the Government and IDA have engaged
in debates over sector issues and constraints. The Government recognizes the strategic importance of, and
attaches high priority to, the revital ization of the agricultural sector through accelerated recovery and
growth, which in turn will reduce rural poverty. The main objective of the Government's program is to
transform the agriculture sector based on private ownership and a market-based system that is more
efficient and responsive. In order to achieve this objective, the Government is committed, with support
under SAC III and the RISP, to implementing reform oriented agricultural policies while correcting
problems of the past decade. In addition, with the help of donor support, the Government plans to establish
institutions that will provide information and other support services to the agricultural sector.
- 7 -



Specifically, the Government has identified the following key areas on which it will further focus its reform
efforts: (a) sustaining a favorable macroeconomic framework and business environment; (b) maintaining
liberal agricultural policies on pricing, trade, marketing; (c) developing a functioning land market; (d)
ensuring the emergence of genuinely restructured farms with legal, private ownership; (e) providing
post-privatization support services for emerging private farmers; (f) improving the mral financing system;
and (g) increasing the competitiveness of the agro-processing sector. These key strategic areas and specific
measures to achieve them are spelled out in the Letter of Sector Development Policy (Annex 13).
More recently, the Government has prepared an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) which
sharpens the focus on poverty and is founded on three pillars: (a) sustainable and inclusive economic
growth that will provide the population with productive employment, (b) social protection policies that
target those most in need; and (c) human development policies that emphasize increased access to basic
services. As articulated in the Government's IPRSP, the promotion of sustainable growth and inclusive
development is the overarching priority in the Government's development and poverty reduction strategy.
The Govemment continues to support the view that sustainable and rapid economic growth will be achieved
through a model of development based on private sector growth and the development of export industries in
areas where Moldova has a comparative advantage. The Govemment plans to develop an export-led
growth strategy to diversify export products based on its comparative advantage and to gain access to
nontraditional export markets. While the actions and implementation mechanisms to achieve these
objectives are less clearly defined for the agricultural sector, efforts are being made to further define them.
In the near term, however, the Govermment's main priorities are: (a) to overcome the general crisis in the
agriculture and the processing industry; (b) to achieve national food security; (c) to increase the production
of competitive, high value-added agricultural and food exports; and (d) to promote rural area development
as a natural, social and cultural framework for the re-vitalization of economy.
The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, report 21426-MD, was discussed by the Executive Directors on
December 19, 2000.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Accelerating future recovery and growth of the agricultural sector would require addressing the key
constraints discussed in section B.3. More specifically, the project would provide strategic support to
address the following sector issues.
Issue: Restrictive Policy and Regulatory Measures. The project would provide support by linking
policy and investment operations. Together with SAC HI, the project would attempt to eliminate restrictive
policy and regulatory measures, modify impeding regulations, and reduce the number of administrative
requirements and fees. By addressing these issues, the project would reduce the cost of doing business and
encourage the entry of new enterprises. This goal would be achieved through continuous policy dialogue as
outlined in a Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP). The success in realizing this goal would be
measured against the defined triggers for phase II of the APL.
Issue: Inadequate Land Markets. While privatization of land has progressed, with over three million
land titles issued, the number of land transactions is still limited. The initial distribution of land and asset
shares alone is insufficient to fuel a resurgence of agricultural productivity unless the land is portioned and
distributed in rational scales. A functioning land market would allow consolidation of land ownership
and/or usage by those who are willing and able to farm, while allowing others to unload the land in return
for other assets that would allow them to engage in alternative economic activities. At the same time,
-8 -



conflicts among lessors and lessees have been identified as an additional constraint to land transactions and
the development of a functioning land market. The project is designed to provide post-privatization legal
services to those interested in leasing, purchasing or selling land to facilitate land transactions, to educate
new land owners about their legal rights, and to disseminate information about land availability for sales,
leases, and prevailing price levels.
Issue: Inadequate Post Privatization Support Services. The breakup of collective structures and the
disappearance of the centralized upstream and downstream support services have left the new landowners
without key support services. A Rural Gap Assessment (1999) and a Baseline Survey (2001) conducted
during project preparation confirm this critical lack of services to support agricultural production,
particularly access to knowledge, markets, and finance. These gaps lead to inefficiencies at all stages of
the production and marketing chain, and many of the new farmers are compelled to limnit themselves to
subsistence production. The project's main goal is to restore the post privatization support services that
are market responsive and more suitable for smaller scale private farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The
project includes specific components to develop private advisory services and new farm organizations and
to provide information on prices ancl market requirements, on access to capital and input markets, and on
agronomic and business practices.
Issue: Insufficient Rural Finance Intermediation and Limited Access to Commercial Credit.. The lack
of access to finance by private farmers has negatively affected rural growth. Newly created private farmers
do not have cash or other assets to use as collateral to make the equity contribution usually required by
commercial banks. While land is legally allowed as collateral and there are limited transactions taking
place, commercial banks are still reluctant to take land as full value collateral. Access to financial services
is particularly important to post-privatized farmers and rural entrepreneurs so that they can take advantage
of the recent market reforms to adjust input use, modify output mixes according to market signals, and
invest in new technology to improve the productivity of their land and labor. Emerging agro-businesses
similarly lack the means to invest in adequate storage, grading, packing, processing and distribution
equipment, and facilities. With the exception of relatively large-scale commercial farms, most of the
small-scale, private farmers and the newly emerging rural enterprises have not been able to obtain loans
from commercial banks. The project would address this issue through providing multi-prong support. The
project would provide a credit line component for the sector with an innovative mechanism to improve
incentives that would build upon successful Savings and Credit Association support while directly
addressing constraints faced by lenders and borrowers.
This will be done first, through addressing the reluctance of commercial banks to lend to rural clients.
Commercial banks are reluctant to lend to farmers and rural entrepreneurs because: (a) the typical loan size
is too small and transaction costs too high; (b) small-scale clients do not normally have adequate collateral;
(c) lending to the rural sector is perceived to be risky due to a lack of past lending history, accounts, and
client information; and (d) the still imperfect legal system to enforce loan recovery makes repossession and
disposal of pledged assets extremely difficult. The project would address these constraints by: (a)
providing training to lenders until they are more familiar with lending to rural clients, including farmer
organizations, which will help reduce both the bias and "perceived risk" associated with small loans; (b)
organizing farmers to capture economnies of scale, increase average loan sizes, and continue the wholesale
lending to SCAs to reduce transaction costs; (c) providing a one-time grant to substitute for the lack of
equity; and (d) streamlining lenders' intemal procedures for dealing with problem loans. In addition, the
project would provide direct supporl: to rural clients for developing concrete business plans for bankable
projects and for improving collateral and other financial instruments for sharing and reducing price and
quantity risks, such as crop insurance, price insurance, hedging futures markets, and warehouse receipts.
A priority task is to make moveable property such as machinery, equipment, livestock, inventories,
-9-



accounts receivable, and warehouse receipts into an acceptable form of collateral. This could be
accomplished by improving the legal framework, helping to establish the registries, making out-of-court
settlements possible, and helping banks to understand the process of securing collateral, including the
disposal of secured property.
Issue: Limited Information and Support Network at Grassroots Levels. The project would promote a
decentralized, participatory approach to building institutional capacity to deliver what farmers need most at
the village level - information.. An intended outcome of the project would be the emergence and effective
functioning of multiple grassroots-based groups that would gradually fill the institutional vacuum that has
characterized Moldova's rural sector since the collapse of the old system. The emphasis on private and
non-governmental institution building also reflects the need to compensate for the severe financial and
institutional weakness of the public sector. A wide range of services, both upstream and downstream,
including support for marketing, at village levels have been identified and tested. These services are
expected to be replicated under the project.
As discussed above, the project, as a first phase of an APL, has made strategic choices first to focus on
creating a foundation for the development of viable farming structures, on restoring a functioning,
support-services network and market chains, and on providing critically lacking agricultural credit.
Focused efforts are being made to create a sound legal basis by supporting the enactment of key laws such
as: Laws on Business; Laws of Pledges, including moveable collateral; amendments to the Land Code and
Peasant Farm Laws; Laws on Bankruptcy; and Laws on Debt Restructuring, to name a few. In doing so, a
strategic decision was also made to exclude from the first phase other important tasks such as research,
agricultural education, plant and animal quarantine, quality control, and the rehabilitation of irrigation
systems, services that fall more in the realm of public sector activities. These activities will be included in
the subsequent phase of the APL. In addition, a public sector reform agenda under the SAC III will
address, in parallel, key legal, regulatory, and institutional issues.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Program will have two phases. As discussed earlier, the first phase would establish the basic
foundation for private farmers and entrepreneurs to initiate economic activities by providing new, private
farmers and rural businesses what they need to succeed - legal ownership, knowledge, know-how, and
finance - while pursuing the long-term program support as discussed in Section 3.B. Given that there are
over 400,000 private farmers in a rapidly changing, dynamic environment, the first phase will only be able
to address the needs of a fraction of the private farmers with regards to these core areas of support. The
second phase of the Program will be built upon the outcome and lessons learned from the first phase. The
second phase is expected to continue supporting the development of the policy, legal, and regulatory
framework while expanding the institutional and financial support initiated under the first phase to a larger
number of beneficiaries.
Performance Triggers. Progress toward achieving the Program's objectives will be monitored through a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system of key performance and policy-relevant indicators (see Annex 15
for more details). The M&E system will also include a set of triggers that are simple and measurable. The
triggers include: (a) the clear formulation and continuous adherence to the priority legal and regulatory
reforms as articulated in the Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP); (b) the creation of fully
developed legal statutes for private farms and rural entrepreneurs as measured by increasing numbers of
registered private farms and rural businesses; (c) the efficient operation of NGOs involved in advisory and
rural business development services as demonstrated by at least 35 active service providers with at least
100 active, on-going contracts, and at least 100 legally registered, new, rural businesses; (d) the successful
- 10 -



integration of commercial banks into rural financing as demonstrated by at least three fully functioning and
active participating financial institutions (PFIs); (e) a sound portfolio as measured by a minimum 90
percent recovery rate under the rural finance component; (f) adequate regulatory and supervisory capacity
of the State Supervisory Body (SSB) as demonstrated by all licensed SCAs being in full compliance with
the prudential regulations with mininum default rates, for example, less than 5 percent; (g) SCAs' internal
resource mobilization rate of a minimnum 10 percent, which wvill be measured by the co-financing ratio of
SCA resources with IDA funds; (h) the disbursement of at least 75 percent of the first-phase credit line
operation with demonstrated financial viability of sub-projects and a sound portfolio quality; and (i) the
disbursement of the non-credit line components or evidence that an equivalent quantity and quality of
technical assistance have been provided and have resulted in enhanced local institutional capacity.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project would have three main components plus support for project management:
(a)    Rural Advisory Services;
(b)    Rural Business Development Services;
(c)    Rural Finance; and
(d)    Project Management.
The first component would provide the most essential information to emerging private farmers; the second
component would create legally registered rural businesses with business plans; and the third component
would provide finance to bankable iural clients. The first two components would provide predominantly
technical assistance, while the third component would provide private investment support along with the
necessary technical assistance to participating financial institutions. The first three components are closely
linked, with each dependent on the others for successful outcomes.
Parallel GEF activities. In additiorn to the above components, two parallel, GEF-funded activities will be
implemented as a part of the overal l RISP framework to support the post-privatization agricultural sector.
They are the Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) for US$ 5 million equivalent and scheduled for
implementation by August 2003, and the Medium-Size Biodiversity Project (MSBP) for US$ I million
equivalent, which is already being implemented until 2005. The GEF facilities will provide matching grant
funds to support the Special Credit Line of the RISP (US$ 2 million under ACPC and US$ 200,000 from
MSBP, respectively). In addition, APCP would also provide technical assistance through the advisory
service providers to mainstream environmental concems into agricultural practices and to assist the
Government in promoting the adoption of environmentally-friendly practices in crop and livestock
production as well as in those rural agro-industries that contribute to nutrient pollution, including wetland
and integrated watershed management. Implementation of the GEF projects will be carried out by their
own respective project implementation units, except for the grant funding for the Special Credit ]Line, which
will be implemented through arrangements under the RISP.
Component 1: Rural Advisory Services (US$ 2.95 million, with IDA financing US$ 1.60 milion)
The Rural Advisory Services Component would finance service contracts and training, through which it
would establish a nationwide network of decentralized, privately-owned, rural advisory service providers
(SPs). The component would provide information, knowledge, and know-how to newly-established, private
rural entrepreneurs. A variety of services will be provided covering, among other topics, business, finance,



agronomic and other technical areas, as well as information on marketing prospects, legal and tax
implications to business management and credit availability. Services will be demand driven, hands-on and
provided at the on-farm and beneficiary level. Clients in the villages would assume an active role in
identifying the areas of their needs to meet the changing demands of a market economy, including
agricultural restructuring and the continuing land privatization. The need to transform agricultural
producers into business entrepreneurs will also be addressed under this component. Rather than creating
new advisory centers, this would be done by tapping into the already existing network of service providers
and augmenting their capacity through the provision of capacity building support.
Advisory services would be provided through competitive contracting based on advertisement, open bidding
and independent evaluation and selection. The competitive contracting system would promote innovation
as it relates to the continuous development of extension methodologies and contents that are relevant to
farmers, and, in this manner, would have the largest impact. This component would promote an open and
systematic exchange of information and cooperation within the network of SPs in order to develop more
depth through specialization, to stimulate creativity through the sharing of different experiences and
approaches, and to learn from those SPs who are more efficient and effective. The advisory services will
be provided to clients based on partial cost recovery, which will increase gradually over time. The
component will also provide training of SPs and members.
A capacity assessment of potential SPs was carried out for 90 SPs and based on the results of the
assessment and a set of eligibility criteria, 35 SPs have been pre-qualified to participate in the competitive
contracting process. A detailed operational manual, contracts, selection criteria and procedures, as well as
monitoring and evaluation procedures, including a client feedback system, have been designed and are
being piloted with support from TACIS and the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Pilot results confirm
that demand for information is substantial, a wide range of highly relevant topics are being covered, and
SPs themselves are keen to improve their own capacity to better serve their future clients.
Component 2: Rural Business Development Component (estimated at US$ 2.49 million, with IDA
financing US$ 0.5 million)
The Rural Business Development Component would finance technical assistance, training of trainers and
rural entrepreneurs, and operational support for local development agencies (DAs) with an aim to create
legally registered, self-owned and sustainable rural businesses, which would be potential clients of financial
institutions. The component would provide, based on expressed demand, support for the formation of
viable farmer organizations (FOs), agribusinesses, marketing entities, and other rural businesses with
proper legal and operational status. This component would extend beyond the basic advisory information
services furnished in the first component by providing support for the preparation of business strategies, the
identification of profitable products and potential markets, the conceptualization of business ideas, the
development of business plans, and ultimately the preparation of loan packages. Per client demand, this
component would also provide the technical assistance to initiate the operations. Once established and
operationalized, new groups could also receive post-creation support on a cost-sharing basis. FOs and
agribusinesses with viable business plans would potentially have access, subject to the discretion of
participating financial institutions (PFIs), to investment and working capital credits under the rural finance
component of the project.
The component would support all forms of private ownership, including individual private farmers,
enterprises, cooperatives, FOs, limited liability firms, and joint stock companies. The aftermath of the land
privatization has confirmed that farmers can join their efforts and rationalize the scale and production mode
by forming FOs or cooperatives. FOs are considered to be an efficient and democratic tool to enhance
- 12 -



rural businesses. The Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) system, which started in 1997 in Moldova,
is a good example of a successful FO movement. The recently enacted Laws on Business Cooperatives
provide the necessary legal framework. This component would also provide information and the required
documents for registering enterprise,;, assist clients with the confirmation of their legal status, inform them
about their legal rights, and provide other institutional support for new agribusiness enterprises, including
strengthening the operational, financial and management capacity of groups.
A detailed component operational manual, standard contracts, selection criteria and procedures, as well as
monitoring and evaluation procedures, including a client feedback system, have been designed and tested
under a pilot launched in the fall of 2001 with the support of DFID, the Soros Foundations and the PPF.
Three DAs registered as NGOs are currently active, and participation of additional NGOs with experience
in grassroots mobilization would be solicited. At the end of March 2002, about 50 new businesses have
been registered, of which about 40 have finalized business plans, and about 20 loan applications for an
aggregate of US$800,000 equivalent have been prepared and submitted. The results of the pilot are
promising, but they also highlight the need for modifications of the operational implementation modality,
reflecting the dynamic nature of rural economy that is emerging in rural Moldova.
Component 3: Rural Finance Component (estimated at US$ 13.75 million, with IDA financing US$
8.0 million, including US $0.2 million for TA)
The Rural Finance Component addresses the lack of access by the newly emerging private farmers and
rural entrepreneurs to investment and permanent working capital. This component would build on the
successful pilot results of the Rural Finance Project (ICR Report No. 23365), a "Learning and Innovation
Loan" (LIL), a PPF pilot credit-line., and other technical assistance supported during project preparation.
Results of the pilot are summarized in Annex 16.
Under the component, there would be two credit line facilities: (a) a general commercial credit line and (b)
a special credit line with a "matching grant." A more detailed description of this component can be found
in Annex 2. Credit line operational guidelines, the main terms and conditions, and monitoring, evaluation
and reporting requirements are articulated in the Rural Credit Guidelines (RCG). In addition to providing
credit at prevailing commercial interest rates and terms, the component would also support the provision of
technical assistance to participating financial institutions (PFIs), the State Supervisory Body (SSB), SCAs,
and the National Federation of Savings and Credit Associations (NFSCAs).
Sub-Component 3.1: General Commercial Credit Line (US $ 7.73 million, with IDA financing
US$5.8 million)
The General Commercial Credit Line (GCL) would provide investment and permanent working capital
loans at commercial terms to private rural entrepreneurs through eligible PFIs, that is, commercial banks
and the Rural Finance Corporation (RFC). This credit line would be open to a broad range of creditworthy
individual and group clients, including, among others, agricultural producers, processors, and marketing
and service enterprises in rural areas . PFIs would maintain full autonomy in the selection of borrowers, the
approval of sub-projects, and the delermination of lending terms, and they would bear the lending risks.
Intended beneficiaries are those who have commercially viable and bankable projects with adequate
collateral, satisfactory financial rate:s of return and demonstrated repayment capacity. Representative farm
models and a sector comparative analysis indicate that agricultural investment loans in vineyards, orchards,
and other high value crops would have adequate rates of return but would require relatively long repayment
periods. Investments in vineyards, for example, would require a minimum repayment period of 10-13
- 13 -



years, with a five-year grace period. This component would provide such long-terrn resources to the
agricultural sector. The eligibility criteria for borrowers, maximum loan limits per borrower, and free limit
and procedures for prior review by IDA are discussed in Annex 2 and RCGs. Eligibility of PFIs would
follow the well-tested criteria established six years ago under the Private Sector Development Project
(PSD). The four PFIs selected to take part in the pilot credit line are already participating in the PSD
credit line operations. The RISP would also rely on the Technical Unit (reporting to the Ministry of
Finance) for regular updates to verify that the PFIs fully satisfy the National Bank of Moldova's banking
requirements and PFI eligibility criteria.
This credit line would continue to support Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) based on the outcome
of the Rural Finance Project and findings of the ICR. In addition to lending to SCAs, particular emphasis
would be placed on intemal resource mobilization and control within SCAs, supervision and regulation of
SCAs by SSB, and building coordinated support through the National Federation of SCAs.
Sub-component 3.2: A Special Credit Line with a Matching Grant (US$ 5.525 million, with IDA
financing US$2 million and GEF US$2.2 million)
The Special Credit Line (SCL) is designed specifically to assist newly created and registered small-scale,
private farrners, groups of farrners and rural entrepreneurs. Because they are newly created, these entities
lack credit history, collateral, and adequate equity for the self-financing that is required by institutional
creditors. In order to compensate for these shortcomings, the SCL would offer a matching grant to eligible
borrowers. Each sub-loan under the SCL would consist of a credit portion and a conditional grant portion.
These loans would be provided at commercial lending terrns and interest rates, and PFIs would have full
autonomy in loan approval. The eligibility criteria and operational modalities, including prior and post
review by IDA, are detailed in the Rural Credit Guidelines (RCG) and summarized in Annex 2.
The matching grant would enable potential clients with sound business plans an opportunity to access
commercial credit for the first time and to build up productive assets so that they can continue to borrow
from institutional creditors in the future. The matching grant would also provide benefits to lenders by
reducing the total outstanding portfolio risk by the grant amount, thereby decreasing provision and reserve
requirements. The Government is keen to support the matching grant scheme under the budget since it
would also provide an opportunity to replace distortionary interest subsidies with a more transparent and
effective way of providing initial financial support to new, private farmers. Because of the subsidy element
of this facility, all due diligence, prior to and after loan approval, would be carried out with full disclosure
of information on the recipients, utilization of funds, and effectiveness of the grant. Each legal entity will
be able to receive the grant on a "one time" only basis.
Two IDA-executed GEF grants would provide co-financing for the matching grant. With the RISP as an
anchor, the Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) and the Medium Size Biodiversity Project
(MSBP) would provide funds to introduce and promote environmentally sound agricultural production
activities. Newly created private farmers lack both knowledge and incentives to make environmentally
friendly investments. These two projects would provide an excellent opportunity to demonstrate sound
environmental management practices for agricultural producers and processors.
Sub-component 3.3: Institutional Capacity Development For Rural Finance System (US$0.5 million,
with IDA financing US$0.2 million )
This sub-component would provide technical assistance on agricultural lending to the PFIs. While the
banking sector in general, and the selected PFIs in particular, are generally in good condition to support the
- 14 -



development of a sustainable rural finance system in Moldova, lending to agricultural clients, especially to
new private farmers, newly created farm organizations or rural enterprises, is new to most of the PFIs. The
Government has preliminarily agreed, and the PFIs have welcomed the proposal, that the Government
would provide partial compensation to PFIs for the relatively higher transaction costs of making small size
loans to a large number of geographically dispersed rural clients. The PFIs have also expressed their
willingness to partially cover the cost of the technical assistance. In coordination with CAPMU, technical
assistance would be provided through the existing banking training center or other qualified training
agencies. Training programs and lraining arrangements, financing and cost recovery would be cletermined
during the appraisal.
Specifically, technical assistance and training would be provided for: (a) strengthening commercial banks'
capacity in rural lending; (b) promoting commercial banks' lending to SCAs and their members through
training in SCA appraisal, access lo savings, etc.; (c) developing RFC's capacity for lending directly to
individual or group borrowers; (d) strengthening the State Supervisory Body (SSB)'s regulatory and
supervisory capacity for SCAs; (el improving the National Federation of SCA's capacity to provide better
support services to its SCA members; (f) establishing a legal registration system for moveable property and
warehouse receipts as acceptable collateral; and (g) exploring various risk mitigating options such as risk
equalization funds, crop insurance, hedging, etc. to enhance sustainability of the rural finance system. The
possibility of participating in "distance leaming" to leam from similar experiences of other countries would
be also explored.
Component 4: Project Manageinent Component (estimated at US$ 0.5 million, with IDA financing
US$ 0.4 million)
This component would provide technical and financial support for project management. Project
implementation and supervision would be the responsibility of the Consolidated Agricultural Projects
Management Unit (CAPMU), which has demonstrated its capability to manage the implementation and
preparation of Bank-funded projects in Moldova's rural sector. In addition, CAPMU would also implement
the special credit operation for en'vironrentally sound investment financed by two GEF grants. CAPMU
has a staff adequately trained in administrative functions such as disbursement and accounting,
procurement, monitoring and evaluations, and reporting. But with new projects with multiple components
to coordinate, CAPMU staff would need additional training. In addition, an unallocated fund would be set
aside for special studies in areas rot directly covered by the project components, for example, the
consolidation of fragmented land holdings into viable farms. The budget for the Project Management
Component would also include funding for the annual audits of the project accounts.
- -       ..                        Indicativi-            Bank-      % of
Component - ,i~~*  .~  t or      Idctv          f    'finanicing  Bank-
-_____    Component_____,__________,_ C4US$M)                Total     (US$M)    financing
Component 1. Rural Advisory      Other Agriculture     2.95      15.0       1.60      15.2
Services
Component 2: Rural Business      Agro-Industry &       2.49      12.6       0.50       4.8
Development Services             Marketing
Component 3: Rural Finance       Agricultural Credit  13.75      69.8       8.00      76.2
Component 4: Project Management  Institutional         0.50       2.5       0.40       3.8
Development
Total Project Costs                   19.69     100.0     10.50     100.0
Total Financing Required                    19.69     100.0     10.50      100.0
- 15 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As discussed in Section B of this PAD, the proposed project would provide an opportunity to complete
sector reforms through continuous support for privatization, through ongoing facilitation of the
development of the private sector and through steady promotion of reforms in the legal and regulatory
systems of agribusiness, trade and marketing. Furthermore, the proposed project would strengthen the
rural financial system and initiate interventions aimed at alleviating rural poverty and evening out
disparities in income levels among the rural population. The analytical work already done - the Rural Gap
Assessment, the Agricultural Sector Development Strategy, and the Baseline Survey - has provided a
concrete basis for identifying key policy and institutional reforms that would create a conducive
environment for the proposed project and, ultimately, for the entire sector. While the recent Government
change creates an additional challenge, the project would continue to pursue the necessary reforms as
identified.
As discussed earlier in Section B.3, the Government's specific agreement in the form of a Letter of Sector
Development Policy (LSDP) has been obtained (Annex 13). The project is also closely coordinated with
preparation of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III). Some of the specific actions under the
SAC III include the repeal of several restrictive laws, regulations, and practices that impede agricultural
investment, trade and exports and hinder the emergence of cooperatives and other groups.
3. Benefits and target population:
The process of providing basic information and know-how, creation/registration support, and, ultimately,
access to credit would generate the following benefits:
*   Empowerment of the rural population through access to information, strengthened legal rights,
improved bargaining power of the farmer groups and associations, and mobilization of human and
social resources at community levels;
*   Establishment of local institutions with adequate capacity to serve a large number of private farmers
and rural entrepreneurs nationwide;
*   Enhanced social capital as a result of the building of local institutions at the grass-root level and
improved governance in the villages, through increased participation in decision making and resource
allocation, thereby fostering more effective and transparent public and private services agencies;
*   Strengthened capacity of financial institutions with an increased awareness of the newly created
private farmers and rural enterprises as potential clients;
*   Broad and deep outreach of the rural finance system encompassing small-scale borrowers with
limited access to institutional credit, and including those clients lacking credit history and equity
participation;
*   Enhanced awareness for commercial viability and accountability by new rural enterprises with
reduced reliance and expectation for government subsidies;
*   Increased agricultural productivity through improved access to finance and various support services
and through the establishment of trading links. It is expected that agricultural production would
increase on a per hectare, as well as a total hectare basis;
*   Improved marketing opportunities and channels through the establishment of farmer marketing
organizations. In addition, vertical integration would be enhanced through supporting investments in
production, processing and marketing activities;
*   Opportunities to generate income, increase employment, and reduce poverty. With farmers
empowered to use their privatized assets efficiently, and with the ability to borrow, the provision of
the Special Credit Line would provide special entry support and allow rural poor to enter into
commercial activities which would reduce poverty and improve living standards; and
- 16-



*   Diversification of the rural economy through supporting a broad spectrum of rural economic activity
and by providing the necessaiy training, information and credit.
Target Population. The main target population would be newly privatized landowners who now have
titles in their hands but limited opportunities to generate income from them. New forms of organization -
private farms, emerging farmer grolup organizations, cooperatives, and other private, rural entrepreneurs
that aim to improve their production capacities and efficiency to compete in a new market econorny - all
would be the intended beneficiaries. There would not be geographical targeting. The group and
participatory approaches built into the advisory and rural business development support services with the
special credit line would open the window of opportunity to poor farmers, many of whom are women.
Experiences from rural micro-finance programs worldwide confirm that women are, indeed, more
disciplined and responsible borrowers, who, with access to a small amount of credit, can increase their
ability to generate income and improve household food security and well being, especially for their children.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. Implementation of the project would take approximately four years
(FY02-FY05).
Project Management and Monitoring - Executing Agency
Agricultural Steering Committee (ASC). The overall supervisory functions would be provided by the
ASC, which is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and includes representatives of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Finance, Economy and Environment, National Bank of Moldova, as well as representatives of
the farmers' union and non-governmental organizations. The ASC would regularly supervise pioject
implementation by the various institutions described below and coordinate relations with the various
ministries and other stakeholders. An assurance was obtained that the ASC would not be involved in the
day-to-day implementation of the project; in particular, the ASC would not be involved in subloan
appraisal or approval decisions which would be fully delegated to PFIs.
Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit (CAPMU). Day-to-day project implementation
would be the responsibility of the (CAPMU, which was created by consolidating all project management
units that were implementing various donor-funded agricultural projects. CAPMU is currently managing
all Bank/IDA projects in the agriculture and rural sectors and has been the key agency responsible for
coordinating preparation of the RISP. CAPMU has full-time project coordinators devoted to the advisory,
rural business development, and rLral finance components, as well as an environmental specialist.
CAPMU also has experienced accounting, financial management, procurement, disbursement, and M&E
specialists, many with previous ex:perience in working with World Bank supported projects. Through
CAPMU, coordination among donor-funded projects has improved, and institutional linkages among the
Government, project management, and the IDA have been simplified.
Other Implementing Agencies. The following agencies would be involved in the project implementation:
Component 1- Rural Advisory Services
Service Providers (SPs). During the capacity assessment of service providers, all existing agencies,
including those created by various donor-funded technical assistance projects, have been considered and
evaluated. One prerequisite was that each agency has strong interest and commitment to implement the
component and has adequate basic capacity and willingness to improve it further. SPs would be comprised
- 17 -



of a team of local consultants with the principal roles of serving as the physical network officers, the first
contact-point for farmers, and implementers of the contracted services. Around 35 service providers are
expected to serve under the project.
National Extension (Advisory) Board is comprised of a maximum of seven members representing the
Ministries of Finance and Agriculture, private and donor organizations, and SPs. Among other functions,
the Board would develop future strategies, appoint the coordinator of the National Agency for Consultancy
and Training in Agriculture, review extension/advisory needs and identify the priority strategy and tasks
accordingly, as well as agree on additional activities to be carried out through the extension network on
behalf of the Borrower.
National Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture (ACSA) is an executing arm of the
Board, which would be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the advisory component and the
management of the network of SPs. The main functions include monitoring and implementing selection
criteria, approving the "standard service package," arranging contracts, technical backstopping, facilitating
cooperation among the SPs, and maintaining quality advisory services. ACSA would have a direct
supervisory and support role for SPs and would monitor and evaluate the performance of SPs and their
individual local consultants. In addition, ACSA would be in charge of the collection and dissemination of
information and innovations and would play a coordinating role in the set-up of demonstration plots and the
creation of training courses.
Component 2: Rural Business Development Component
Development Agencies (DAs). DAs are private, NGOs, with adequate capacity and experience in
supporting rural business development support. DAs would be selected based on eligibility criteria and
would be expected to maintain their eligibility. DAs would carry out fieldwork to support the formation of
farm organizations, to assist them in the process of legal registration, and to faciliate them in the realization
of their business plans. Several organizations in Moldova have been involved in similar activities, for
example, in the formation of SCAs. DAs are expected to work closely with the institutions involved in the
rural finance component. Contracts for DAs and quality of services would be managed by CAPMU.
Component 3: Rural Finance Component
Private Commercial Banks. Private commercial banks that meet the eligibility criteria of participating
financial institutions (PFIs) would implement the general and the special credit lines and lend to individuals,
FOs and SCAs. In order to become PFIs, banks would have to meet the established eligibility criteria
(which are consistent with those established under the PSD line of credit) and be willing to serve a wide
range of agribusiness and rural clients. PFIs, following on their own business strategies and operational
guidelines, would lend to eligible borrowers for investment and permanent working capital at prevailing
market interest rates and commercial terms. Four commercial banks currently participating in the PSD
credit operation - Agroinbank, Moldinconbank, Victoriabank, and Banca Sociala - have signed the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement under a pilot credit operation and are active in lending. Two additional banks,
Fincombank and Universalbank, have completed a questionnaire and expressed interest in participating in
the project, but their eligibility still has to be confirmed. During implementation of the project, the same
PFI monitoring arrangement currently being implemented under the PSD project will be followed. The
National Bank will submit a written confirmation that participating banks are in full compliance with the
National Bank's banking requirements, and the Technical Unit, as a unit within the MOF, will collect and
submit pertinent data on a semi-annual basis for IDA review and confirmation.
- 18 -



Rural Finance Corporation (RFCI was created as a non-bank, financial intermediary in 1997 wuder the
Rural Finance Project, during the period when the banking sector in Moldova was undeveloped and
unwilling to lend to the rural sector. Currently, RFC is one of the biggest lenders to the agricultural sector
(over 40 percent of total lending for agricultural production) as well as to SCAs (70 percent of the total
cumulative lending to SCAs). RFC is operating according to Prudential Rules and the Laws on SCAs.
RFC shareholders are SCAs, which are required to put 6 percent of the loan amount into RFC capital.
Results from the implementation completion review of the RFP confirmed that a lack of direct lending to
members of SCAs is impeding the development of more advanced SCA members who no longer wish to
borrow based on mutual guarantees. To address this issue, RFC has established a direct lending window,
which will lend to both groups of farmers and individuals.
Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs). As of April 2002, 359 SCAs are legally registered, licensed
and actively operating. The total number of SCA members borrowing has reached 25,150 and continues to
grow. The average loan amount peir SCA member continues to be about MDL 2,400 (US$ 185
equivalent), with the maximum loan limit set at MDL 15,000 (US$ 1,150 equivalent). Most of the loans
are made for a period of up to one year, and most provide working capital to finance agricultural and
livestock production. Mobilization of savings has begun, totaling about MDL 612,000 (US$ 45,300
equivalent). Under the project, SCAs will borrow from all PFIs and make retail loans to their members.
The State Supervisory Body (SSE;) for SCAs is a separate entity belonging to the Ministry of Finance
which was created in late 1998 to license and supervise SCA operations. The main functions of SSB are:
(a) overall supervision of SCAs, in particular verification of their compliance with the prudential
guidelines; (b) introduction of the necessary changes in the legislation to allow more adequate supervision;
and (c) work on improvement of pnrdential guidelines for SCAs, in particular on capital and liquidity
requirements. Until now, experience with SCAs has been very good, with a repayment rate of near 100
percent. To date, the SSB has suspended the licenses of ten SCAs. However, the varying needs and
requirements of the borrowing SCA members have given rise to a serious problem. With the development
of businesses in rural areas, there awe some members requiring larger loans and at a longer maturity, which
makes the mutual guarantee arrangement difficult. With increased diversification and attendant risks, the
role of SSB is even more critical. SSB needs to improve its capacity to provide adequate supervisory
functions. The proposed project would provide such support to SSB including staff training.
The National Federation of Savings and Credit Associations (NFSCA) was created in January 1999,
under the Rural Finance Project (RFP). The main functions of NFSCA are to: (a) represent the interests of
members; (b) develop and implement unified standards for SCAs on financial management, internal
regulations, and auditing; (c) resolve conflicts between SCAs and their members, or third parties; (d)
provide legal assistance; (e) establish a monitoring and information system for SCAs which includes
regular financial reporting; and (f) provide other forms of support to SCAs, such as assistance in accessing
information. Although the NFSCA has been in operation for only a short period of time, it has negotiated
collaborative arrangements with other agencies and seems to have generated substantial support as
witnessed by an increasing number of members, which currently stands at 150 SCAs or 55 percent of all
SCAs in the country.
- 19 -



Financial Management. Overall responsibility for financial management of the project will rest with
CAPMU. The Bank conducted a financial management assessment of CAPMU and concluded that its
financial management arrangements are satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. Project
management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring and
supervision and, subject to the foregoing, the indicative formats of these are included in the CAPMU
accounting manual. CAPMU will produce a full set of FMRs quarterly throughout the life of the project.
FMRs will not be used for disbursement purposes but rather Bank-financing will be disbursed under the
Bank's established procedures, including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Audits. No significant issues have arisen in the audits of previous Bank-financed projects implemented by
CAPMU. CAPMU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are satisfactory to the Bank
and it has thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for RISP, to include RISP's
project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account. The terms of reference that were used for audit of
CAPMU-implemented projects for CY2001 will be extended to include RISP from CY2002. The audit of
the project will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and procured by CAPMU through the Least-Cost Selection procurement process.
The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be awarded during
the first year of project implementation and thereafter, extended from year-to-year with the same auditor,
subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the project would be regularly
undertaken based on the M&E indicators and mechanisms that have been set-up for each component and
sub-component. CAPMU would compile quarterly project progress reports and submit them to the
Steering Committee, the concemed ministries and IDA. A baseline survey, which was carried out in
January 2001, established the reference points to monitor the project's incremental impact. The M&E
work would be guided by the logical framework presented in Annex 1 as well as specific output and impact
indicators as agreed during negotiations. Based on the results of the year-end M&E review, lessons learned
would be incorporated into CAPMU's work programs for the subsequent year.
A Mid-Term Review (MTR) for the project would be carried out no later than June 30, 2004, or when 50
percent of the project is disbursed, whichever is earlier. Beneficiary surveys and assessments would be
carried out for the Mid-Term Review and repeated at project completion. An Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) would be prepared within six months before Credit Closing; CAPMU and the Ministry of
Finance would contribute to this ICR. Details of the M&E system of the project are summarized in Annex
15.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Lending Instruments. Given the critical nature of the policy issues to be addressed, a sector adjustment
operation was considered. But the critical training and institutional capacity building support that are
required ruled this out as a suitable instrument. Step-by-step efforts would be needed to put in place the
necessary institutions and mechanisms; they would then have to be tailored to the actual needs and
capabilities in an economy undergoing dramatic transition. A LIL was considered and rejected, mainly by
the Borrower, given the significant amount of experimentation and piloting currently being carried out
under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and also under various multilateral and bilateral donor-funded
activities in Moldova. A sectoral investment and finance operation is, therefore, considered the appropriate
- 20 -



instrument for the objectives being pursued.
With regard to policies, the project is being prepared and designed in parallel to SAC III, which will
address, among other obstacles, the key policy, legal, institutional and regulatory impediments that the
agricultural sector is facing.
Optimal Project Interventions. Sevzral different models to achieve the project goals were considered.
One of them was the "ARIA" village-restructuring model. ARIA, which was created under the PSI)
project, has been actively engaged in the restructuring of 10 villages. While this model has some merits, it
does not have the outreach features that are important to address the needs of over 1,500 villages and over
400,000 registered private farms. Instead, the project would establish a wide system of private, local
service providers and development agencies, which will have to maintain a certain quality of staff, services
and outputs.
Focus of Project. Given the broad agenda for the sector, various areas of support have been considered,
including, inter alia, the provision of rural infrastructure and leasing operations. Over 3 million land titles
have been issued and over 400,000 private farmns have been legally established but most have no concrete
means to generate income. A more narrowly focused project would support the creation of farmer
organizations to capture economies of scale, provide information so that farmners can make intelligent
decisions, and make available rural finance so that farmers can build productive assets to realize their
dreams.
Two Operations Combined into One. Initially two separate IDA operations were considered - a TA
project focused around institution building, and a rural finance project to inject credits into the sector. In
order to maximize the synergy between the complementary nature of the two operations, a decision was
made to combine them into this proposed project.
Support for Private Institutions. Rather than restructuring public institutions, a strategic choice was
made to develop support service systems based on private entities. The provision of services to farmers
through government agencies has proven neither effective nor viable. The centralized marketing and
procurement system of the past was equally unsustainable. This project will ensure that clients' needs and
preferences are reflected during the organizational support stage for farmers groups, based on a
participatory approach at the village level, and during the selection stage for service providers, based on the
implementation of a decentralized, decision making process. In order to realize this important goal, during
the inception period the project would focus primarily on information dissemination, on-site campaigning,
and frequent communication.
Local Non-Governmental Organizations. A strategic decision was made to build and rely on local
non-governmental institutions at the village level by mobilizing teams of trained, highly motivated, local
consultants or groups of consultants.
Directed Credit. Based on OD8.3, special due diligence work was done to compare the effectiveness for
rural clients of an open credit line veisus a directed credit line. The latter option was selected because a
survey of commercial banks during preparation confirmed that, in general, banks are still reluctant to lend
to farmers or small-scale, rural entrepreneurs due to perceived high risks, relatively high transaction costs
associated with making small loans, and the banks' lack of understanding of agriculture or rural sectors. In
addition to the provision of credit, the project would, through parallel TA support, address the current
constraints that prevent commercial banks from lending to rural clients and mobilizing savings in rural
- 21 -



areas.
Financial Intermediation. Under the first Rural Finance Project, a non-bank financial institution, RFC,
was created to on-lend the IDA credit line to SCAs. Now, however, the banking sector in Moldova is at a
level where major commercial banks are willing to diversify their lending activities to include rural clients.
The project would include as many eligible commercial banks as possible and provide necessary TA to
enable them to overcome "misperception" and actively lend to rural clients. The project would help
diversify the portfolios of these commercial banks and help strengthen their loan appraisal skills for rural
lending. One of the expected outcomes of the project is that commercial banks would become engaged in
diversified lending activities, including to a wide spectrum of clients in rural areas.
Poverty Alleviation Program Through the Special Credit Line. The Government has recognized that it
does not have a comparative advantage in selecting investmnents that will help alleviate poverty in rural
areas. The Government of Moldova, instead, will earmark a specific amount of the IDA credit to provide
special support to newly formed groups and small-scale entrepreneurs; it will rely on the commercial
banking system to appraise, approve, and supervise investment loans. As incentives to commercial banks
to lend to rural poor, the Government will provide, among others things, transaction cost support and
complementary grant schemes to borrowers.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
. .;- :---  Latest Supervision
Sector issuet :.          '.-     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
,____ ,__ _*__ __ _  .'_._-_'_j_?_ '_,_ __*_ *_r-.:_._-__. _ '_'_!:n_'.'_r._  (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Agriculture                       Agriculture I (completed)         S             S
Agriculture                       Rural Finance (completed)         S             S
Agriculture                       Sectoral Adjustment Loan,         S             S
Credit I and II (completed)
Social                            Social Investment Fund            S             S
Public Sector Management          Private Sector Development I      S             S
Multi sector                      Private Sector Development II     S             S
Urban Development                 First Cadastre                    S             S
Other development agencies
USAID                             Land Privatization;
Agricultural Service Centers;
Farm Shops; Post privatization
Support
EU TACIS                          Export Promotion; Agricultural
Marketing; Development of
Agricultural Machinery Supply
and Services, Advice Centers;
Reform of Agricultural
Education, Training and
Research
- 22 -



Japanese                          Agricultural Equipment and
Leasing
British Know-How Fund              TA for Farmers Associations;
Rural Livelihood Project;
Support for SCAs/SSB
IFC                                INCON Project
EBRD                               Vininvest
GTZ                                ProComerz Technical
Assistance Project
Soros Foundation                   MMA Project; Farm Shops
Foundation Project                 _-
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Intemational experiences in activities similar to those proposed under this project have been evaluated. The
key lessons learnt and considered during project preparation are summarized below.
Rural Support Services. International experience indicates that successful investment in support services
has two main requirements: first, a st-ong government commitment to create a favorable environment for
the development of profitable and sustainable farming and to provide financial support to strengthen these
services providers (this commitment will be sought and recorded in the form of a LSDP and SAC [II); and
second, the financial and operational sustainability of services providers with a gradually increasing
self-financing ratio. Farmers would be empowered through participation in governing bodies at the local,
regional and national levels of the support services organizations. Recipients of the services should
appreciate the value of such services and be willing to pay a fee for, at least, partial cost recovery. Finally,
an independent monitoring system would be developed to evaluate the changing environment and client
needs and to monitor the capacity of ,ervice providers to modify their operations.
Rural Business Development Support. Assessment of various donor programs in Moldova indicates that
business development support should be demand driven, relevant for beneficiaries, and have concrete
business benefits. Experiences of the Moldovan Microfinance Alliance (MMA) and the Rural
Development Center under the First Rural Finance Project confirm that business promotion and the
creation of viable local enterprises talce a long time and necessitate considerable effort and resources; this
often results in such institutions having to deal with donor dependence issues. To address this issue,
beneficiaries will cover a part of the cost and there will be a form of success fee from those accessing
commercial credits. The project would keep costs low and provide relevant services at affordable prices.
Nevertheless, it will take several years for the business service providers to achieve full cost recovery and
financial autonomy.
Developing Farmer Organizations i(FOs). The World Bank has vast experience in promoting fanner
organizations in developing countries. Among some of the lessons learned are that development of a
cooperative or farmer organization requires a combination of support including training of all stakeholders,
especially FO members and leaders, Ihe establishment of pragmatic management systems, and sound
business development strategies, as well as arrangements for the funding of business activities.
Furthermore, all stakeholders must be involved in the promotion and activities of the movement. Members,
- 23 -



laymen leaders, staff and promotion agencies all need to be given training and opportunities to participate
and contribute to the success of the farmer groups. Because cooperatives are primarily business
organizations that can help improve the economy of their members only if their business activities are
profitable and sustainable, it is imperative that the FO development support be demand-driven with full
participation of vested members.
Rural Finance. Although rural finance credit programs, particularly micro-finance programs, can raise
living standards and increase farm productivity, isolated credit-only interventions do not have a significant
sustaining impact on the rural economy. Complementary actions, such as investment in capacity building
for borrowers and lenders and removal of constraints that impede flows of funds to the rural sector are also
necessary to make rural finance an effective tool in developing rural economies. From analyzing other rural
finance operations, we have learnt that macro-economic stabilization, market liberalization and
privatization are all prerequisites for effective financial interventions. Rural credit projects often face
difficulties due to: (a) the rarity of profitable opportunities for lending; (b) PFIs unaccustomed to rural
lending and unfamiliar with the clientele; (c) the high risks particularly if the PFI concentrates lending only
on agriculture and/or in a limited geographical area; and (d) the high transaction costs of rural lending are
high relative to other lending opportunities. The project is designed to address these difficulties. Lending
through groups such as SCAs reduces risk without physical collateral and allows those unable to access
institutional credit on their own to be able to borrow; furthermore, group lending is cheaper for lenders.
Training of PFI staff in appraisal and supervision as well as improving the environment for secured lending
will help mitigate the higher costs and risks of agricultural and rural lending. At the same time, the main
emphasis should not merely be to provide credit, but also to stimulate savings as well. Finally, a successful
credit line operation should be established on a broad-based clientele and be accompanied by
complementary TA support to improve risk assessment by loan officers, to assist clients in developing
"bankable" projects and to support institutional development within the PFIs. Therefore, comprehensive
TA support is being included in the proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A series of actions on the part of the Govemment best demonstrates its strong commitment for the project.
Namely, the Government of Moldova has: (a) nearly completed land privatization; (b) passed the Law on
Business Cooperatives; (c) advanced privatization of agricultural entities in up- and down-stream sectors;
and (d) acknowledged that post privatization agricultural support services are key for generating economic
recovery. Specifically, the Government has demonstrated substantial commitment to developing a
successful SCA system, and seeks additional IDA support following completion of the first Rural Finance
Project, a LIL. The Government created the Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit to
coordinate the experiences gained from a decade of loan support by various donors, and to maximize the
effectiveness of future support. To actively supervise project preparation activities, the Government also
established the Steering Committee, with representations from the key Ministries of Agriculture, Finance,
and Economy, from non-govemmental agencies, and from private organizations that support farmers.
Further, the Government obtained and effectively used a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to implement
pilot operations of the rural business development, advisory services, and pilot credit line components,
including the matching grant support. Finally, the Government is also involved in negotiations around a
variety of key policy reforms that will be supported under SAC III.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Since the Bank's operation commenced in the Republic of Moldova in 1993, the Bank Group has supported
the Government in the design, analysis, and realization of its development strategies through various
lending and non-lending operations. With regard to lending activities in the agricultural sector, the Bank
- 24 -



has gained experience through the irnplementation of the First Agriculture and Rural Finance projects and
through structural adjustment operations. The Bank's participation in this project would: (a) heighten
awareness of poverty reduction and its linkage to the PRSP through increased alignment with the overall
Government Strategy; (b) encourage a participatory approach to reflect a broad range of society's interests;
(c) restore a balance between adjustment and investment operations; (d) enhance the effectiveness of
ongoing initiatives; and (e) lead to sirong monitoring and evaluation based on a clearly defined set of
benchmarks. Moreover, the Bank can draw upon its extensive experience in poverty alleviation and
agricultural and rural development in many other countries, including, most recently, the projects on
agricultural support services in Albania and the Kyrgyz Republic. In addition, the Bank will play an
important coordinating role with other donors, including EU-TACIS, SIDA and DFID, by designing sector
development strategies and enhancing institutional capacities that are compatible with a market economy.
In parallel, improvement of the legal and regulatory system through policy dialogue would be promoted
through SAC III and continuous policy dialogue through ESW work. Being consistent with the overall
agenda of the Program, the project would require a proper sequencing of policies and institutional reforms
that would foster a business and policy environment conducive to private economic activities. In this sense,
the project would be an integral component of the broader country assistance agenda of the Bank group and
would have to be closely coordinated with other related Bank operations in Moldova.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Since the project is based on client clemand which was confirmed through a baseline survey, it is not
possible to estimate a priori the types and magnitudes of sub-projects that will be fnanced under the
project. Therefore, no attempt was made to estimate aggregate economic rates of return of the project.
Instead, a series of crop budgets, farm models, and other typical investment models have been developed to
indicate expected results; they are presented in detail in Annex 4.
The main quantifiable benefit at the farm level will be improved agricultural production, both in terms of
increased productivity and improved product quality as confirmed by higher farm gate prices. Other
benefits emerging from the project would include increased efficiency as a result of enhanced advisory
services and improved farmer organization schemes that will allow for increased access to high quality
inputs. Additionally, the project would result in: (a) an enhanced flow of technical information; (b)
increased value added for agricultural commodities; (c) broadened market institutions; (d) improved
marketing practices resulting from an efficient flow of price and marketing information; and (e) expanded
institutional capacity among rural finance institutions. The project is also expected to improve the welfare
of rural areas and enhance governance at the village level as a result of utilizing a participatory approach to
develop a democratic and autonomous decision-making system. With increased access to information and
advice, the confidence of the village communities would be improved and the sense of isolation in the rural
areas would be reduced.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see: Annex 4)
As discussed above, since it is not feasible to estimate the IRR for the entire project, an alternative
cost-benefit analysis was carried oui: based on crop budget and farm model analyses of representative
investments. There are very few price distortions as both input and output markets are liberalized, become
- 25 -



increasingly competitive, and bear limited taxes and subsidies. They represent typical activities that could
be implemented though the project components and financially supported under the rural finance
component. Overall, the analysis promises positive retums on the potential investments and confirms their
financial viability. Detailed models are available in the project file and a summary is presented in Annex 4.
Crop Budgets. Crop budgets for eight commodities were prepared showing "with" and "without"
scenarios. The results show substantial increases in yields resulting from the use of better seeds, more
fertilizers, and better agronomic technology, with an attendant potential increase in farm income.
Incremental gross margins after project implementation range from 45 percent for sunflowers to 198
percent for potatoes. Since there is no Government control of these commodities, covariance between
financial and economic analysis is expected to be minimal. The fact that Moldovan farm-gate prices are
lower than international prices reflects a relatively lower quality for some of these products but also derives
from lower imputed labor costs in Moldova. Full details of the crop budget and farm model analyses are in
the project files.
Farm Model and Investment Analyses. Nine different farm and investment models were developed and
analyzed in detail. Confirming the results of the crop budget analysis, representative farms (orchards,
vineyards) and agro-businesses (milk collection, grain flour milling, sunflower oil milling, fruit drying,
small irrigation, harvester combine, tractor with implements, etc.) all show positive incremental net income
and IRR ranges between 20-25 percent, with the exception of wine grapes (the lowest at 12 percent) and
small-scale irrigation (the highest among the samples at 60 percent).
Financial Summary of Key Agencies. Key agencies involved in the project implementation (e.g. SCAs,
SPs, DAs, PFIs, etc.), have prepared summaries of their budgets and financial projections, first, to
determine the cost effectiveness of delivering respective services or products by each institution, and
second, to determine their need for financial support until full cost recovery can be achieved. The results
are summarized in Annex 5.
Cost Recovery. The rural advisory and business development services components would be based on
cost recovery, which will start low and gradually increase. Under the rural advisory component, a standard
package of "basic and general" information will be provided to the beneficiaries free of charge (i.e. public
goods with no cost recovery). For special services required by clients and provided by extension
specialists, the beneficiaries would pay incremental fees, which are expected to gradually increase over the
project irnplementation period. All subloans are expected to be fully repaid - except for the special credit
line, under which recipients would be required to first repay 80 percent of the loan portion; then, once the
principal and interest of the loan portion are fully repaid, the remaining 20 percent would become effective
as a grant and would no longer be a liability of the borrower nor a risky asset for the lender. The phasing
(percentage and schedule) of the cost recovery was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
Fiscal Impact:
The project makes a clear distinction between "public expenditures" (no or partial cost recovery) and
private investment (full cost recovery), and the required budget has been prepared and reviewed by the
Government. The Government contribution will come largely in the form of tax rebates to local services
providers and consultants who would have to pay all required taxes. IDA and donor funds will finance net
payments only. On the required fiscal expenditure, it is expected that the first two components of the
project would include support for, among other items, institutional capacity building, recurrent costs,
training, and establishment costs (for example, to acquire computers, facilities, materials). The Special
Credit Line also includes non-repayable grants, which will be financed either by the Government through
- 26 -



its budget or by donors through grants, including GEF grants.
For those components that will generate income, the proposed project is expected to have a positive impact
on the state budget, as it will indirectly contribute to increased tax revenues by raising the output and
profitability of beneficiaries. For the advisory component, the proposed scheme under the project will
replace the "public extension services" that used to be funded by the Government, yet have proven to be
ineffective. The new system will be based on at least "partial cost recovery" and it will be more efficient,
thereby incurring relatively lower recurrent costs. The rural business development and rural finance
components would have limited fiscal impacts resulting mainly from additional income generation of the
beneficiaries. It is not expected that costs related to the components would negatively impact other public
services provided.
3. Technical:
Moldova, with a long history of agriculture, has the adequate technical expertise required to implement the
project. Furthermore, the technical approaches suggested under the project are sound and take into
consideration technical experiences of similar components both in Moldova and in other countries. In
addition, an independent Quality Enhancement Review panel that included relevant technical experts
evaluated the technical approaches and found them acceptable.
4. Institutional:
There are a number of legal, regulatory and institutional constraints to the development of private
commercial farming and effective and competitive trade in agricultural inputs and outputs. A team of local
experts is now assessing these constraints and formulating an agenda for remedial action that would be
implemented under the project. One specific example of where this arrangement was successful was the
identification of the need to adopt a suitable law on cooperatives, which was approved by the Govemment
during project preparation and has now been enacted. Other areas where institutional reforms and support
are required will be identified along with specific actions to be taken.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The principal executing agencies are the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. In delegating
the day-to-day functions to the Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit (CAPMU), these
agencies would have the overriding implementation role. An Agricultural Steering Committee with
representation of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Economy, and non-governmental agencies has
been established, which regularly supervises CAPMU activities. The rural business development
component would involve organizations that would assist in the formation of farmer organizations, as well
as in developing the processes for realizing the planned activities. These organizations would be selected
according to their previous experien,^e in a given field. Several organizations in Moldova have been
involved in similar activities related to the formation of Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs). The rural
advisory and business development support would build on existing service providers and NGOs with an
aim to link them in a network that would eventually cover the entire country. This network of service
providers would be overseen and coordinated by a national extension agency, which would also supervise
the performance of the service providers. The rural finance component would continue to cooperate with
the institutions established under the Rural Finance Project and would seek collaboration with the
commercial banking sector for the general and special credit lines.
For all other institutions involved in project implementation (as listed in Section C.4), including CAPMU,
DAs, National Extension (Advisory) Board, ACSA, service providers, producer associations, RFC, SCAs,
commercial banks, the State Supervisory Body, and the National Federation of SCAs, a systematic,
institutional capacity assessment was carried out.
- 27 -



The systematic institutional assessment includes: (a) an assessment of the main functions of each institution
under the project; (b) an assessment of its current capacity including staffing and budget; (c) identification
of capacity gaps and other areas to be improved; (d) identification of specific support to be provided under
the project to address the capacity gaps; and (e) analysis of the M& E system that would be utilized to
continuously monitor effectiveness of each institution during the project implementation.
4.2 Project management:
The Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit (CAPMU) would be the primary project
management institution. It reports to the Ministry of Finance, but is overseen by an inter-agency steering
committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture. CAPMU was recently created through the merger of
several project-specific PIUs, and has considerable experience with managing the implementation of
Bank-supported projects.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An ECSSD procurement specialist joined the appraisal mission and carried out the procurement
assessment. CAPMU has on staff, a full-time procurement specialist, trained at an intemational training
center in Turin, who is adequately familiar with the various procurement guidelines and procedures
required under Bank projects. Continuous training will be provided for CAPMU staff, including on
procurement. Procurement practices implemented during preparation, including those supported by the
PHRD and PPF, confirm that CAPMU and the beneficiaries have an adequate understanding (although
occasional clarifications from IDA may be needed) on procurement requirements. The IDA procurement
specialist will join the project launch workshop to initiate the procurement practices of the project on a
sound footing. A summary of the procurement assessment is in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Bank conducted a financial management assessment of CAPMU and concluded that its financial
management arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.
The Borrower is in compliance with its audit covenants of existing Bank-financed projects. Previous and
current CAPMU project financial statements and auditing arrangements are satisfactory and it has been
agreed that these will be replicated for RISP. The annual audited project financial statements will be
provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project.
The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of September 26, 1995 was prepared at a
time of considerable transition and therefore, in view of the time that has since elapsed, the CFAA is now
considered to be out-of-date. However, the I-PRSP of November 15, 2000 confirms that improvement is
required in the management of public expenditures, including the budget process and budget execution, as
well as cash and debt management. Thus CAPMU has developed policies and procedures that operate in
addition to those of the current public expenditure management framework to minimize project financial
management risks. In 2000, the Bank conducted a Country Portfolio Financial Management Review
(CPFMR) of all projects under implementation in Moldova and identified some common financial
management issues; the Bank confirmed that all such issues have been appropriately addressed in the
design of RISP financial management arrangements.
The banking sector in Moldova is relatively weak. However, CAPMU has opened all of its projects'
Special Accounts in a single commercial bank acceptable to the Bank whose financial status and statements
are reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Bank. As these arrangements have been satisfactory, they will
remain in place during RISP project implementation.
- 28 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project falls into the World Bank's Fl category, as it will mainly provide funds to lending institutions
that on-lend the funds to qualified apjplicants to implement a wide variety of rural development activities.
As required for Fl category projects, a comprehensive Environmental Review (Environment Sector Review,
dated March 2001, in project files) was conducted by international and local consultants to: (a) assess the
adequacy of the legislative framework for environmental assessment; (b) identify institutions that would be
responsible for the EIA under RISP; (c) determine TA and training needs for these institutions to
adequately implement the environmental assessment (ELA) requirements; and (d) propose procedures for
environmental screening, EIA preparation and implementation, possible mitigation measures for certain
sub-projects, and monitoring and evaluation of implementation of ETA requirements.
The activities to be financed under IUSP will be small, demand-driven investments in farm and non-farm
income generating activities. Given the small size of the activities financed under the project, the
environmental impacts of individual subprojects are expected to be small. However, the specific activities,
their potential environmental impact:s, and local cumulative impacts can only be known during project
implementation. For this reason, the project will put in place an environmental review and screening
mechanism that will: (a) carry out environmental review and assessment as needed in accordance with
Moldovan Law and World Bank reqjuirements; (b) prevent financing of projects with significant
environmental impacts, and (c) identify mitigation measures for the project with less than significant
environmental impacts, to be implemented as part of the subproject activities. To guide PFIs and CAPMU
in this process, an environment section was developed as part of the Rural Credit Guidelines for PFIs under
RISP, providing mechanisms for environmental screening of proposals, preparing an EIA and supervising
its implementation.
The Project will build capacity in CAPMU to undertake the environmental reviews and ensure that the
mitigation measures are followed. This technical assistance will be co-financed by a grant from the Global
Environment Facility through the Agricultural Pollution Control Project, APCP. As a result, potential
environmental impacts will be avoided or minimized by applying a set of good practices directed to farmers
through the advisory Components of the RISP, such as providing guidance to clients on environmental and
agricultural sustainability matters when advising on agricultural production activities. In addition; the
APCP and the Lower Dniester River Biodiversity Project (a second GEF-financed project) will support
environmentally sustainable agriculiure technologies, such as organic farming, and provide farmer
education on environmentally sound practices. These projects will provide incentives to farmers and
extension services to enhance agricultural productivity in an environmentally friendly manner:
The Agricultural PolIution, Control Project (APCP) aims to reduce nutrient (N&P) pollution
from agriculture through adoption of environmentally-friendly practices in crop and livestock
production and rural agro-industries, as well as related policy improvements. The APCP' will be
implemented as an integrated component of RISP. The Project would provide up to 20 percent
grant cofinancing for rural credits issued under RISP to address the incremental cost of eligible
nutrient reducing environmental investments such as crop rotation, conservation tillage, efficient
manure management practices, promotion of organic farming, nutrient management, buffer strips
along rivers, and soil and water quality monitoring, and other similar activities. The APCP will
also support preparation and implementation of a model wetland and integrated watershed
management plan for one of the tributaries of the Prut River in the Lower Prut Basin to r educe
nutrient load and improve biodiversity conservation. Under its TA Components, the APCP will
- 29 -



also strengthen CAPMU and PFI capacity in integrating environmental concerns into agricultural
practices through advisory services, environmental screening of credit applications, and monitoring
of implementation of environmental plans on the ground by the rural population.
The Lower Dniester Biodiversity Conservation Project will create a national park in the Lower
Dniester River region to conserve globally significant biodiversity and promote sustainable natural
resource uses. The Lower Dniester Biodiversty Project will also co-finance environmentally
sustainable non-farm investments. Management plans developed under the Project for various
zones of the Park will identify farm and non-farm income generating activities for rural populations
surrounding high-conservation lands that integrate biodiversity-friendly practices and aim to
achieve incremental biodiversity benefits. This Project will provide grant cofinancing for RISP
credits to address incremental costs for biodiversity conservation for commercially viable and
replicable investments, such as in small-scale processing facilities for food/medicinal goods like
milk, cheese, flour mills, fruits, berries and nuts, medicinal plants; bee-keeping; cultivation of
valuable genetic species, including ancestors of wild species; traditional handicraft activities;
development of nature tourism and home stay activities in the national park, buffer zone, and
transition zone.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
For projects requiring an EIA, the EIA will identify whether an EMP is needed.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
The Environmental Review was prepared in March 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Extensive consultations with stakeholders groups have taken place in various parts of the country including
stakeholders from the Ministry of Environment, NGOs and farmer organizations. A workshop was held
with a number of NGO representatives and govemment specialists to identify major issues and problems,
including environmental, facing rural people and how these problems would be best addressed. Results
from the workshop were supplemented with a background description of agricultural and rural conditions,
and current activities in Moldova. These two initiatives provided a base upon which a number of
assumptions in terms of probable agricultural and rural activities to be supported through the project would
be made. Also, the Environmental Review was carried out on the basis of discussions with the Ministry of
Environment.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
CAPMU and the lending institutions will environmentally screen each proposed activity, based on the
Guidelines and Environmental Checklist. Where screening indicates that an EIA is required, the lending
agency will direct the proponent to conduct and submit to RISP management an acceptable EIA prior to
funding approval. CAPMU will have the responsibility for verifying the need for an EIA and advising the
project proponent on EIA preparation, and monitoring the sub-project implementation, including ensuring
that the sub-project meets the environmental requirements of the country and is consistent with the Bank's
guidelines. CAPMU will include an officer responsible for environmental management, based on EIA
Guidelines. This individual, and relevant staff of the PFIs, would be given appropriate training as
described in the Guidelines, again supported by APCP.
- 30 -



The following is a preliminary procedure for environmental screening and EIA preparation, review and
approval: (a) application for line of credit is submitted to the lending institution; (b) lending institution
determines whether or not the activity will require an EIA, based on an Environmental Check List; (c) if
EIA is needed, application is forwarded to CAPMU management for confirmation; (d) responsible officer
reviews application and verifies need for an EIA; (e) if EIA is required loan applicant is informed; (f) if the
applicant wishes to proceed, he carries out an EIA (guidelines to be provided) and submits EIA to CAPMU
through lending institution; (g) CAPM4U reviews EIA and suggests revisions and eventually approves or
rejects project on the basis of the EIA; (h) if approved, CAPMU will monitor the activity to ensure that it is
in full compliance with the management plan.
Monitoring. Frequent monitoring by the Bank and CAPMU will be required to ensure that mitigation is
carried out and to also determine whether or not additional impacts, not identified in this environmental
review, have not been overlooked. Monitoring will be carried out on a systematic basis by the project
management team or its designate (e.g. a local environmental consultant). A detailed monitoring procedure
will be developed and the individual(:,) responsible would receive training in monitoring techniques. The
World Bank should also include an environmental specialist on the occasional supervisory mission to
ensure that environmental monitoring is being conducted effectively and that monitoring results are being
acted upon.
Training. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Territorial Development is responsible for
administering the Law on Environmental Protection. However, apart from complex and potentially
dangerous projects, this law does not address the need for EIAs on most projects. Thus, RISP management
staff and lending agencies' staff will r equire various levels of environmental management training, to be
provided under the Project based on the EIA Guidelines.
6. Social:
6.1 Sununarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Two quantitative surveys and one qualitative social assessment (SA) were completed as a part of project
preparation. Stakeholders were surveyed extensively during a GAP Study of, primarily, a rural support
services component (December 1998/January 1999), and were consulted again during the Social
Assessment (May-August 2000) and the Baseline Farm Survey (October-November 2000).
The key social issues identified throughout stakeholders analysis are:
1. The rural population is faced with many major challenges, such as insufficient income, lack of
employment, and lack of access to utilities. The majority of respondents perceives standards of living as
being at or even below subsistence, but this perception differs among organizations and rural households.
Rural households are representatives of populations that are engaged in active farming without being
organized in formally registered farm units. The net family income of private farmers is about three times
the net income of rural households. F armers are willing to associate, but group formation to yield more
efficient production is being stymied by lack of information, not lack of trust.
2. Small farmers and rural entrepreneurs are virtually without organizations or infrastructure that serve
their needs or articulate their interests. Old established institutions have not adjusted to meet the needs of
small producers, who remain relatively isolated. A market infrastructure is the first priority of Moldovan
farmers - where and how to sell goods, including training in market analysis and crop selection. Lack of
information and insufficient knowledge are the major obstacles to farmer involvement in agricultural
- 31 -



opportunities. The potential solution to avoid isolation is dissemination of information and technical rural
business development assistance.
3. The rural population is generally optimistic about its future. Seventy percent of farmer organizations
and 20 percent of rural households intend to borrow in the future. However, there are many constraints
toward receiving credits by rural, small-scale stakeholders. Credit inequities can be decreased by providing
access to credit and building the capacity of rural financial institutions.
Social development outcomes would include: (a) establishment and strengthening of organizational capacity
and social capital as seen in group formation and development of rural infrastructure; (b) empowerment
through the support of grassroots organizations taht would enable rural people would be able to draw
themselves out of poverty; (c) participation of stakeholders in project implementation to steer the project
toward community demands; and (d) equitable, accountable and transparent govemance through improved
legal and regulatory systems to support commercial lending to rural clients, farmer groups and
agribusinesses.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
In order to enable the project team to tailor the project design to fit the needs of stakeholders, separate
social assessments were conducted during project preparation. The demand-driven development of the
agribusiness/financial services network would ensure constant stakeholder participation in the project at
various levels.
At the grassroots level, local NGOs and rural leaders would promote and stimulate farmer group activity.
By implementing the participatory approach, farmers and rural agribusinesses would be assisted by the
farmer organizations in joining various types of formal and informal groups, for example, service
cooperatives and product councils. At the next level, the business advisory and technical support services
infrastructure would be established for newly created private farmers and emerging private agri-businesses
and rural enterprises. Rehabilitation and maintenance of the market infrastructure and the creation of the
rural business development services would empower farmers to participate by increasing knowledge and
opportunity.
Private stakeholders, represented by the commercial banking system and RFC, would participate by
providing investment and working capital credits to support the broad range of agri-businesses and rural
enterprises mentioned above and by helping SCAs exploit business opportunities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project promotes and relies on non-governmental agencies for implementation. In addition, NGOs and
other civil society organizations were extensively consulted during project identification and preparation,
including in focus group meetings. Representatives of these organizations have played significant roles in
project preparation as members of component-specific working groups and/or during consultations on draft
working papers.
Civil society would help to implement and sustain the project. The project would utilize the experience of
existing NGOs to advise, promote and stimulate various farmer organization activities, particularly
developing access to finances. Civil society would participate in the rural support service component by
formulating community development strategies. The project would assist the establishment of sustainable
civil society organizations (professional associations, community organizations, etc).
- 32 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For the advisory and rural business components, a capacity assessment of local service providers was
carried out, which included among ether activities, an assessment of representation of local interests and
representatives of the community in decision making process. The service providers and development
agencies are all formed by grass-roots level staff, and would be supervised and monitored directly by
regional, private organizations while the national level entities would only set the broad strategies for the
components. During the pilot period, services provided by local agencies were evaluated through
beneficiary questionnaires, the results of which will be integral parts of future evaluations before a contract
is awarded. Training of trainers is b ring included in the project, to directly train local services providers in
addition to the beneficiaries themselves. The farm organization method would be based on the well-tested
methods of social mobilization that wvere implemented under the first Rural Finance Project when Savings
and Credit Associations were formed. SCAs, which are self-managed and accountable for their own
performances, are known to be one cf the most effective tools to voice community and members interests.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project would provide long-term, continuous and adaptable support to rural development in Moldova.
Therefore, reports on project development indicators and feedback from the public and other beneficiaries
would be reported quarterly. An independent agency would implement a participatory monitoring and
evaluation system after CAPMU ensures that the capacity of this agency to monitor and evaluate project
results is adequate.
Indicators relevant to social developinent outcomes would include: (a) indicators of farm organizations
created or strengthened, including the number of their members; (b) the willingness and success of
communities in taking responsibility for the rural development systems; (c) measures of improving or
building agricultural market facilitie;; (d) beneficiary satisfaction with agricultural services financed under
the project; (e) level of self-financing and long-term sustainability of the services provided under the
project; (f) number of private farmers and rural entrepreneurs that have access to credit; and (g) the
successful utilization of lending over time.
The rural finance component would strengthen the capacity of financial institutions and RFC to operate an
efficient system of rural financing and provide private farmers and rural entrepreneurs easier access to
finance.
Finally, the project management cormponent, led by CAPMU, would develop the necessary administrative
and financial management skills in the various agencies and field units to implement the different project
components. Strengthening the regulatory and supervisory capacity of the State Supervisory Body and
National Federation of SCAs is also included in the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
- . . 1 v .<@vRolicy. Mi;w.~~~.,. ;~ts ::'i.e- --- . ..,''Applicability;--:
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
- 33 -



Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental review has been conducted. It was used in the implementation design of the project
components, as described in Section 5 above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Political Sustainability. The most significant risk emerges from policy uncertainties that will be monitored
both under SAC III and RISP. While the Government is committed to alleviate rural poverty through
regenerating growth, policy decisions are often driven by a short-term political agenda. Public discontent is
frequently voiced around the issue that the country has not yet benefited from the transformation of the
economy.
Government's Intervention in Non-Governmental Activities. The Government has used various means
to control and interfere with a number of activities; for example, the court of accounts announced an audit
of various project implementation agencies, including CAPMU. While this issue has been resolved at
present, future intervention is quite possible. Similarly, the Agricultural Steering Committee has
occasionally attempted to influence the flow of commercial credit to particular sub-sectors. The project
documents clearly state that PFIs would have full autonomy for loan appraisal and approval decisions. This
would have to be monitored during project implementation.
Financial Sustainability. With regards to the rural business development and advisory services
components, financial sustainability would be achieved only gradually, and during the initial period, project
financial support would be required. Cost recovery of services of a "public goods" nature rarely achieves
100 percent financial sustainability. Under the rural finance component, at the sub-project level, overall
appraisal and financial analysis of the viability of each sub-project should confirm the sustainability of this
component. If financial sustainability is to be achieved, PFIs must maintain a high quality portfolio through
prudent operations. At the local community level, sustainability of the project would be linked to
improvement in labor productivity and job opportunities, and the project's participatory approaches to
promote community involvement would enhance the sustainability.
Institutional Sustainability. A strong emphasis from the beginning on local capacity development and
decentralized implementation would ensure institutional sustainability. In addition, needs-focused training
for local institutions and groups would be an important element of the project in the initial years.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
.-           Risk,-   . Risk Rating                -       Risk-Mitigation Measure.,
From Outputs to Objective
Political uncertainties could reverse the  H         Both SAC III and RISP have agreed on policy
Government's commitments to proceed                  reform programs, which would be monitored
with policy reforms, and to remove main             through the Letter of Sector Development
impediments for private sector                      Policy; IDA and the Borrower would continue to
-34 -



development.                                         engage in policy dialogues.
Post-privatization land ownership still     S        Land owners would be informed of their legal
being solidified; and land owners legal              rights through inforrnation campaign and legal
rights still inadequately understood.                support; and development of land markets will
be supported to promote land consolidation
based on market signals.
Business environment that is not            S        Specific legal and regulatory constraints have
conducive to private businesses.                     been identified, and efforts are being made to
reduce the impediments, in parallel to proactive
steps to promote private activities, such as the
rural business development support.
New private farmers lack knowledge,        M         Transfer of know-how and basic support
skills to develop and manage investments             services through hands-on business development
on commercially viable terms.                        support and training will be focus of the RISP
APL Program and the first phase.
Inadequate local institutional capacity and  M       Institution capacity building and training of
demand for post-privatization support                trainers are key focus of the APL program.
services.
Farmers do not fully understand the        M         Intensive information campaign, on-site focus
benefits of joining farm organizations or            groups, training will be provided regarding
other legitimate groups.                             benefits of private farmers organizations to
increase groups' bargaining power, capture
scales of economies, improve marketing
prospects, etc.
From Components to Outputs
Political influence on consultant contracts  M       All selections will be done through open,
or hiring of local staff.                            transparent, and advertised selection processes
and evaluation results will be made public.
Political influence on sub loan appioval    S        Assurance would be sought to provide full
autonomy for loan appraisal and approval to
participating financial institutions and will be
followed by regular portfolio review
PFIs lack necessary skills, experiences    M         Training will be provided to cornmercial banks,
and interest to lend to agricultural clients.        simplified loan appraisal procedures, creation of
a group lending window, improved MIS, etc.
will reduce the transactions cost
Donor activities are not coordinated       M         A comprehensive inventory of all donor
supported rural programs will be updated and
regularly shared with the donor community for
improved coordination and synergy.
- 35 -



Overall Risk Rating                 |       S        |
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial-Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Potential controversies could emerge from the Government's sudden reversal of key agricultural policies.
The Letter of Sector Development Policy attached to the project provides a vehicle for continuous policy
monitoring and dialogue.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. At least one eligible PFI signs the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Ministry of Finance.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition for the Board. The following condition was met:
The Government of Moldova has submitted a Letter of Sector Development Policy, signed on May 10,
2002, which is acceptable to the Association.
Conditions for Negotiations. The following conditions for negotiations have been met.
1. The Government of Moldova has endorsed the project concept, components, implementation
arrangements, and cost and financing plans.
2. The Government of Moldova has submitted a draft Letter of Sector Development Policy with key
areas of reforms and an action plan to be implemented during the period of the APC Program.
3. The Government of Moldova has submitted a set of trigger points for starting the second phase of
the APL with measurable performance indicators, including those that can measure the institutional
capacity building.
4. The Government of Moldova has endorsed statutes, an operational manual, and budget and staffing
requirements for CAPMU, and commits to maintain CAPMU with full support during the project
implementation period with adequate staffing and funding support.
Others:
Dated Covenant. The Government shall reinstate the supervisory functions of the State Supervisory Body
(SSB), including licensing of savings and credit associations, no later than December 31, 2002.
Implementation: The Government of Moldova shall: (a) implement the project according to the agreed
Project Implementation Plan, Operational Manuals, and Rural Credit Guidelines; (b) maintain CAPMU
- 36 -



with staff, resources and TOR acceptable to IDA; (c) maintain the Agricultural Steering Committee until
project completion with staff, resources and TOR acceptable to IDA; (d) implement the rural finmnce
component according to the Rural Credit Guidelines; and (e) coordinate related donor technical assistance
activities.
Accounts and Audits: Standard covenants will apply. RISP's project financial statements, SOEs and the
Special Account will be audited annually by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank. The audited fnancial statements will be provided to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year as well as at the closing of the project.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Repcorting: Standard reporting covenants will apply. The Government of
Moldova will: (a) prepare and submlit quarterly progress reports within 30 days of the end of each quarter,
with the first report no later than December 31, 2002; (b) prepare and submit an annul work program for
the following calendar year, including procurement and financing plans; (c) prepare a mid-term review by
June 30, 2004 and review with IDA. by September 30, 2004; (d) ensure that environmental reviews for
sub-projects requiring EIAs are canied out; and (e) supervise and monitor the quality of work of all
implementing institutions involved in project implementation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
E1l 2. The procurement documents ior the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Flan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The project is ready to start implementation. For all components, operational manuals for
implementation were tested during the pilot stage, discussed in full detail with the IDA team, and
modified as appropriate; they are now in place. A competitive contracting system was tested
during the pilot stage and is now in place. The system calls for the public dissemination of all
aspects of the system; the eligibility criteria, the evaluation procedures and committee
composition, and announcements of the initial results, final selection and contracting entities. All
necessary contracts for local senrice providers and consultants are in place, as is the supervision
and monitoring system, which includes a system of beneficiary surveys for contracted services.
For the rural finance component, four eligible commercial banks and RFC have signed the interim
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and have implemented pilot credit operations. The demand for credit
appears to be strong, as is the willingness to learn among future borrowers and lenders alike.
Furthermore, an independent monitoring system of PFIs is in place to ensure continued eligibility
and high portfolio quality. Donor-funded pilot activities, which would be rolled out in fiull-scale
during the project, have begun and results are promising. Project management and supervisory
arrangements - CAPMU and the Steering Committee - are in place, have been fully endorsed and
are ready to begin implementation.
- 37 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Hoonae Kim                              Laura Tuck                        Roger W. Grawe
Team Leader                             Sector Director                   Country Director
-38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOLDOVA: RUFRAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
.-- i--  Ke! 'Perf6Pi inancb  ':Dati CdIlectioh-Strategy. -. ..   ; -
Hierarchy of Objectives  . nP   lidicn'dat&rs-. f"  '     A       '           ;4 (Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increased rural incomes and  * Poverty headcount in rural  ESW reports         Continued political
reduced poverty through    areas declines.                                     commitment by GOM to
facilitating the development                                                   proceed with policy reforms
of private agricultural    * Higher levels of production                       and removal of main
enterprises and related    and productivity of                                 impediments for private sector
post-privatization support  commercial farm units,                             development.
service activities in rural
areas.                     * Developing land market
with increasing number of
land related transactions.
* Increased export volumes of
agricultural production.
Program Purpose:           End-of-Pirogram Indicators: Program reports:        (from Purpose to Goal)
Accelerated private sector led  * More favorable     * Supervision reports.  .  * Continued political
agricultural recovery and  macroeconomic framework                             commitment by GOM to
growth to provide         and business environment;  * Mid-term review report.  proceed with the policy
underpinnings for future                                                       reforms.
income growth and poverty  * Improved competitiveness
reduction in Moldova.     of the agro-processing sector; * APL Phase I trigger review. * Willingness of GOM to
proceed with removal of the
* Project progress reports.  main impediments hindering
development of the private
agriculture and processing
Program Phasing:           * Developied land market;                           sectors.
Phase 1: Creation and      * Sustainable support services
strengthening of the       * utial upr evcs* Coordination between
institutional and regulatory  system for rural businesses;                      GOM, IDA and other donor
frameworks for emerging     Sound rral financingcies.
rural businesses;         system;                                               * Legal and regulatory
framework for land market
* Improved diversification                           development is in place with
and development of off-farm  -                       ownership rights fully defined
activities.                                          and protected.
* Local institutional capacity
Phase 11: Additional                                                           and demand for
investment support to the                                                      post-privatization services are
target group.                                                                  adequate.
* Commercial banks have the
capacity to adequately deal
with risks associated with
rural lending.
- 39 -



Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Foster post-privatization   * Increased production and  Project progress reports.  * An adequate macro policy
growth in the agricultural  productivity in key crop and                        framework is in place.
sector by improving the access livestock sub-sectors in the  Comprehensive reports
of new private farmners and  regions where project    (baseline/interim/final) based  * Existing impediments for
rural businesses to what they  activities are conducted.  on semi-open interviews with  marketing and export are
need to succeed - legal                               a representative sample of  diminished.
ownership status, knowledge,  * Number of viable new and villages and of households
know-how, and finance.      improved rural businesses  (project/non-project) to assess * Improved marketing and
engaged in economic activity the economic and social  export facilities will lead to
in the project areas: 900  impact of project        agricultural value added.
individual and 600 group  interventions: production
businesses.              levels, situation of livestock  * Key farm inputs are
production; efficiency of  available in country in
* Improved access to rural  machinery services; level of  sufficient amount and quality.
advisory services:       satisfaction; level of food
- Numnber of advisory    security and income at farm  * Commercial banks
centers operating - 35    level.                     overcome their reluctance to
- Outreach: 1,100 villages.                         lend to rural businesses and
- Proof of client                                   farmer organizations.
satisfaction in surveys.
* Privatization and farm
* Improved market access                            restructuring processes
and marketing practices for                          continue.
agro-food producers,
measured by increased                                * There is reasonable
volume of exports from the                           coordination of all rural
project area.                                        projects and cooperation with
other donor agencies.
* Increased non-farm
employment in rural areas
measured by the number of
non-ag businesses.
* Increased rural income in
project areas as compared to
baseline survey.
* Increased lending to rural
clients by project PFIs by at
least 50%.
* Increase in number of PFIs
lending to micro-finance
clients.
* Sound portfolio quality
with acceptable recovery rate
of at least 90% for all
creditline components.
-40 -



- 41 -



H   a      o. O    t     ': : .................[_.Key Performance-  Data,Collection Strategy i>.
yof Objective     s  |'Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Rural Advisory Services
Access to information and  * High awareness of farmers     * Quarterly project    * Type of knowledge
advice for those operating in  regarding the availability of  management reports.  required for advisory
the agricultural sector,   rural advisory services.                               services is available in
improved through a                                        * Semi-annual reports  sufficient amount and
nation-wide network of     * At least 200,000 farmers     on progress of separate  quality.
advisory service providers in  and rural entrepreneurs have  project components
project areas.             benefited from the advisory                            * Sufficient key inputs are
services.                       * Supervision reports  available to accommodate
increasing agricultural
* An increase in number of      * Evaluation reports   production.
clients per advisory center.
* Clients are increasingly
* At least 50% of all clients                          willing to pay for good
are repeat clients.                                    quality advice.
* Types of advice provided by
service centers.
* Viability of service centers
as measured by cost recovery
of at least 50%.
* Satisfaction of service center
network with operation.
I. Rural Business
Development                * Number of rural businesses  * Quarterly project      * Legislation necessary to
Farmers strengthened in    and farmer organizations   management reports.        improve the business
developing effective,      created - 900 individual and                           environment for the private
self-owned and sustainable  600 group businesses.     * Semi-annual reports on    sector is enacted and
new and existing rural                                progress of separate project  implemented.
businesses and farmer      * Increased number of      components.
organizations.             members in the farmer                                  * In the case of farmer
organizations.             * Supervision reports.      organizations, the target
beneficiary group generally
* Increased marketing      * Evaluation reports.       appreciates the benefits of
opportunities for agro-food                            joint activities.
producers.
* Increased productivity and
income for owners / members
of newly created businesses;
improved access to credit
from commercial banks.
-42 -



Ill. Rural Finance
1. General Commercial
Credit Line
Increased flow of investments * Number and quality of  * Quarterly project      * Potential borrowers have
and working capital to private business plans submitted to  management reports.  the skills anid knowledge to
creditworthy entrepreneurs in banks for financing.                              prepare finmnceable business
rural areas and continuous                           * Semi-annual reports on   plans.
support of the micro-finance  * Number of loans provided - progress of separate project
movement.                  at least 401).            components.
* Number of beneficiaries  * Supervision reports.
(owners/members) who have
received loans - at least  * Evaluation reports.
1,000.
* Increased share of loans to
agriculture and rural sectors
in PFIs loan portfolios at least
by 50%.
* Number of loans provided to
newly created SCAs -at least
100.
* Growth of the membership
in existing SCAs by at least
10 perceni.
2. Special Credit Line with a
Matching Grant
Strengthened sustainability of * Number of loans to newly  * Quarterly project  * Potential borrowers have the
newly created and registered  created and registered  management reports.      skills and knowledge to
small scale private farmers,  small-scale private farmers                       prepare financeable business
farmer groups and          and farmer groups - at least  * Semi-annual reports on  plans and to be able to make
entrepreneurs, providing   250.                      progress of separate project  good on the loans, in order to
loans with special built-in                          components.                benefit from the special credit
incentives.                * Number of total                                    line.
beneficiaries              * Supervision reports.
(owners/rriembers) who have
borrowed - at least 1,000.  * Evaluation reports.
* Repayment performance -
at least 90% recovery rate on
PFI loan portfolio.
3. Institutional Capacity
Development for Rural
Finance System
Strengthened skills and   * Number and quality of    * Quarterly project        * PFls have the willingness
capacity of PFIs, through  training programs and     management reports.        and commitment to
- 43 -



provision of technical      arrangements for PFIs.                                participate in the training
assistance on agricultural                             * Semi-annual reports on   arrangements.
lending.                    * Increased share of loans to  progress of separate project
agriculture and rural sectors  components.
in the PFIs loan portfolios -
increase by 50%.           * Supervision reports.
* Acceptable rate of       * Evaluation reports.
delinquency on loans to
agriculture and rural sectors
by PFIs - recovery rate of
minimum 50%.
- 44 -



- .         X          -.     ,e ;J -rf' t-<l-> vttEeoi maric.e,A  .-.r |D At CollectionStregy|,
:;Hierarchy of.ObjecthiesgJ     lai-n!dicators'!,  fKt   i, - - ;            "' Critical Assumptions.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Rural Advisory Services  US$m 2.95                Quarterly project         Advice given is
Establish a nationwide                               management reports        appropriately used and has
network of decentralized,                            prepared by CAPMU         an impact.
privately-owned, rural                               (procurement management,
advisory service providers,                          financial reports, project  There is reasonable
based on competitive                                 progress reports i.e. physical coordination of all rural
contracting.                                         delivery of goods and    projects, and cooperation with
services, number of advisory other donor agencies.
Pilot projects.                                      service providers running,
number of farmers        There is adequate counterpart
demanding services).     funding.
Quarterly disbursement
reports.
11. Rural Business        US$m 2.49
Development
Quarterly project management An adequate legal
Finance technical assistance,                       reports prepared by CAPMU   framework has been created
training of trainers and rural                      (procurement management,   for the formation of private
entrepreneurs, and operational                      financial reports, project  businesses, including
support for local development                       progress reports i.e. physical  business cooperatives,
agencies (DAs) with an aim to                       delivery of goods and services, production cooperatives,
create legally registered,                          number of farmers demanding  peasant farms, LTDs, JSCs.
self-owned and sustainable                          services).
rural businesses, which would                                                   There is reasonable
be potential clients of                             Quarterly disbursement      coordination of all rural
financial institutions.                             reports.                    projects, and cooperation
with other donor agencies.
Pilot projects
There is adequate
counterpart funding.
III. Rural Finance
1. General Commercial    US$m 7.725
Credit Line
Provide investment and                             Quarterly project management Farmers have improved
permanent working capital                          reports prepared by CAPMU   access to credit, with PFIs
loans at commercial terms to                       (financial reports, project  being more responsive to
private rural entrepreneurs                        progress reports i.e. number  the needs ofsmall and first
through eligible PFIs                              of loans)                  time borrowers.
- 45 -



Quarterly disbursement
2. Special Credit Line with US$m 5.525            reports
a Matching Grant
Assist newly created and
registered small-scale,
private farmers, groups of
farmers and rural
entrepreneurs.
US$m 0.5
3. Institutional Capacity
Development for Rural
Finance System
Provide technical assistance
on agricultural lending to
PFIs.
IV. Project Management    US$m 0.5
Support of project
implementation unit and
additional studies required
during implementation.
-46 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOLDOVA: RIJRAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
The proposed project would have hree main components plus support for project management:
(a) Rural Advisory Services;
(b) Rural Business Development Services;
(c) Rural Finance; and
(d) Project Management.
The first component would provide the most essential information to emerging private farmers; the second
component would create legally registered rural businesses, with business plans; and the third component
would provide finance to bankable rural clients. The first two components would provide predominantly
public investment combined with technical assistance, while the third component would provide private
investment support along with the necessary technical assistance to participating financial institutions. The
first three components are closely linked, with each dependent on the others for successful outcomes.
Parallel GEF projects. In addition to the above components, two parallel, GEF-funded projecis would be
implemented as a part of the overall RISP framework to support the post-privatization agricultural sector.
They are the Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) for US$5 million equivalent, and the
Medium-Size Biodiversity Project (MSBP) for US$ I million equivalent. The GEF facilities would provide
a matching grant fund to support the Special Credit Line of the RlISP (US$2 million under ACPC and
US$200,000 from MSBP, respectively). In addition, APCP would also provide technical assistance
through the advisory service providers to mainstream environmental concems into agricultural practices
and to assist the Governnent to prDmote the adoption of environmentally-friendly practices in crop and
livestock production and in those rural agro-industries that contribute to nutrient pollution, including
wetland and integrated watershed imanagement. Implementation of the GEF projects would be carried out
by their own respective project implementation unit, except for the grant funding for the Special Credit
Line, which would be implemented through arrangements under RISP.
Component          Component Financing/inputs  Expected Output       Expected Impact
1. Rural Advisory  * Service contracts for   * Service contracts     * Enhanced knowledge of new
Services           general contract (basic   awarded through open,   private farmers on basic
advisory).                 competitive contracting  requirements.
procedures, minimum
* Service contracts for special  1,000 contracts.  * Enhanced awareness of value
contracts (client demand                           of information, advisory
driven topics).            * Establishmenty of a   services.
demand driven/client
* Training of local service  oriented advisory delivery  * Improved knowledge of land
providers.                 system.                 owners' rights and
opportunities.
* Minor office equipment.  * A pool of trained local
advisory specialists.   * Improved agricultural
productivity.
* Establishment of a
nationwide network of
minimum 35 service
providers.
-47 -



2. Rural Business   * Contracts for Development  * Legally registered new  * Solidified legal status of new
Development        Agencies for complete chain of rural businesses.     rural businesses.
Support            requirements to register as
legal entities.             * Legally registered     * Built-in operational,
individual farms.        managerial and organizational
* Pre-creation operational                           capacity among new businesses.
support for new farmers and  * Well prepared
rural business.             operational, organizational  * A pool of viable rural
and managerial structures  businesses to trigger spill over
* Post-creation operational,  in the newly created rural  effects to the rest of rural
managerial support for new  businesses.              economy.
farmers and rural business.
* Well prepared business  * A pool of trained local
* Training of trainers.     plans.                   specialists to continue to serve
future rural clients.
* Well prepared loan
packages.                * Matching of BPs with
financing.
3. Rural Finance    * Investment and permanent  * Substantial loan       * Mainstreaming of agricultural
working capital loans.      portfolio, with broad    credit delivery into banking
outreach.                sector.
* Special matching grant to
eligible, relatively poor clients. * Increased number of  * Significant flow of resources
first-time borrowers.    to agriculture sector.
* TA for participating
financial institutions.     * Improved capacity of   * Improved agricultural
PFIs.                    productivity.
* TA for improving rural
finance system.                                      * Diversified rural economic
activity.
* Reduction in poverty.
4. Project          * Incremental operational   * Well established project  * Well implemented project.
management         expenditures.               management unit and
proper procedures, internal  * Strategic and properly
* Training of PMU staff on  control, reporting, M&E  sequenced project
procurement, FMS,           capacity.                implementation.
environment, social and other
fiduciary duties.                                    * Effective utilization of foreign
borrowed resources.
* Audit and other studies to
measure impacts of the                               * Effective utilization and
project.                                             efficient coordination of donor
TA grants.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.95 million
I. Rural Advisory Services
The Rural Advisory Services Component would finance service contracts and training, through which it
would establish a nationwide network of decentralized, privately-owned, rural advisory service providers
(SPs), which would provide information, knowledge and know-how to newly established, private rural
- 48 -



entrepreneurs. A variety of services would be provided covering, among other topics, business, finance,
agronomic and other technical areas, as well as information on marketing prospects, legal and tax
implications to business management and credit availability. Services would be "hands-on" and provided at
the on-farm level. Services would also be demand driven as clients in the villages would assume an active
role in identifying the areas of their needs, which would include responding to the changing demands and
needs that are associated with the emergence of a market economy, agricultural restructuring, and the
continuing land and asset privatizat ion. The need to transform agricultural producers into entrepreneurs
would also be addressed under this component. Rather than creating new entities, this would be done
through tapping into the already existing network of service providers and augmenting their capacity
through the provision of capacity building support.
Advisory services would be provided through competitive contracting based on advertisement, open bidding
and independent evaluation and selection. The competitive contracting system would promote innovation
as it relates to the continuous development of extension methodologies and contents that are relevant to
farmers, and, in this manner, would have the largest impact. This component would promote an open and
systematic exchange of information and cooperation within the network of SPs in order to develop more
depth through specialization, to stirnulate creativity through the sharing of different experiences and
approaches, and to leam from those SPs who are more efficient and effective. The advisory services would
be provided to clients based on partial cost recovery, which would increase gradually over time. This
component would also provide training of SPs and members.
A capacity assessment of potential consultants and service providing agencies was carried out, and a pool
of qualified local specialists was identified to participate in the pilot advisory operation. A detailed
operational manual, contracts, selection criteria and procedures, and monitoring and evaluation procedures,
including a client feedback system, have been designed and are being piloted with support from TACIS and
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Pilot results confirm that demand for information is great, a wide
range of highly relevant topics is being covered, and SPs themselves are keen to improve their own capacity
to better serve their future clients.
1. Description of the Component
Contracted activities would include:
*   Provision of assistance and information to producers in the agricultural and food sector on
business planning to support potential investmnents, legislation and management issues
including organizational forms, marketing and financial management;
*   Support to increase farmers' familiarity with the use of improved production practices;
*   Improved access to appropriate input supply, seed, fertilizer and marketing channels;
*   Provision of assistance to farm organizations to obtain better services and solve common
problems;
*   Support to improve access to information through specific seminars, training sessions, field
days and demonstration plots, as well as through the collection, systematization and active
distribution of information;
*   Identification of specific problems faced and possible remediation on local, regional and
national levels;
*   Cooperation with all institutions and organizations actively involved in advisory services in
Moldova; and
*   Support to encourage specialized programs on a demand basis.
-49 -



2. Implementation Arrangements
A complete Operational Manual and Component Implementation Plan are in place along with sample
contracts. Regular monitoring and evaluation, reporting and independent client satisfaction survey systems
are in place and have been tested during a pilot.
The component would be coordinated and implemented through organizations at three levels:
*   At the national level: ACSA would provide specific services and be supervised by the
National Extension Board; and
* At the regional level: Service Providers would function as operational centers for teams of
local consultants; and
* At the community level: through local advisors/consultants working directly with rural
households.
The National Extension Board (NEB) is comprised of seven members, representing the Ministries of
Finance and Agriculture, private and donor organizations that financially support service providers.
Among other responsibilities, the Board would be required to: (a) appoint the coordinator of the Agency for
Consultancy and Training in Agriculture (ACSA), (b) review the extension/advisory needs, (c) set the
priority strategy and tasks, (d) develop statues for ACSA and (e) agree on additional activities to be carried
out through the extension network on behalf of other agencies.
Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture (ACSA) is an executing arm of the National
Extension Board which would be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of advisory services by the
network of SPs, including (a) monitoring and implementation of selection criteria, (b) approving the
"standard service package," (c) arranging contracts, (d) technical backstopping, (e) facilitating cooperation
between the SPs, and (d) representing the countxy's interest in maintaining quality advisory service. ACSA
would have a supervisory and supportive role and would monitor and evaluate the quality of service
providers and their individual local consultants. In addition, the agency would be in charge of the
collection and dissemination of information and innovations and would play a coordinating role in the
set-up of demonstration plots and coordinating training courses. ACSA consists of a number of
representative bodies of previously existing service provider networks. The executive directorate of this
agency consists of five people and it would be responsible for the network of service providers, their
contractual arrangements, technical backstopping, facilitating between the service providers and
representing the extension service.
Network of Service Providers (SPs).  Existing organizations that enter into a contract with the project
are called "Service Providers" and they function as advisory centers with the additional tasks of forming a
team and coaching local consultants. During the capacity assessment of service providers, all existing
agencies, including those created by various donor-funded technical assistance projects, have been
considered and evaluated. One prerequisite was that each agency has a strong interest coupled with the
commitment to implement the component and an adequate basic capacity and willingness to improve it
further. SPs would be comprised of a team of local consultants with the principal roles of serving in the
physical network offices, as the first contact-point for farmers, and as implementers of the contracted
services. A total of 90 candidate service providers/consultants were assessed, of which about 20 were
pre-qualified to participate in the initial stage of implementation. Additional SPs would be identified and
trained and would join the project during implementation. Around 35 service providers are envisaged for
the project.
- 50 -



The roles of an SP include being: (a) a physical network node where information is systematically
organized in the form of written material and databases; (b) a contact-point for farmers and investors in
agriculture and processing, for receiving/purchasing specialist information about farming in the region; and
(c) a contact point for local consultants, for administration of contracts, for coaching (organization of
training courses and common activities) and for monitoring of volume and impact of contracts.
Typical Composition of an SP. An SP would consist of two staff in the advisory center and 8 to 10 local
consultants operating at the village !evel. A total of 35 service providers are envisaged under the project,
gradually growing from approximately 20 in year one, to 30 in year 2, and reaching the number of 35
starting year 3 (Seventeen SPs have already been contracted under the pilot phase of the project). These 35
SPs are expected to provide sufficient coverage of services so that the number of contracted SPs would
remain constant for the remaining irnplementation time of the project. The service provider center would
serve as (a) a place for communication of local consultants with their peers, (b) a focal point for visiting
farmers and (c) a communication center and library, equipped with a computer providing access to email
and databases. The project would, where necessary, supply basic computer equipment and provide basic
training for its use, as long as users of these advisory centers establish satisfactory user and security plans
and agree to allow the removal of the equipment if the Center ceases to operate adequately. Service
providers would report quarterly to ACSA and would supervise the activities of the local consultants.
Local Consultants. Local consultants would enter into a service contract with the service provider in their
locations. Extension contracts are expected to commit, in total, around 350 local advisors to spending not
more than 60 percent of their time on extension tasks. At present, there are an unknown number of
specialists in Agronomy, Livestock Production and the social fields involved in provision of information
and advice to farmers and farming households. Advisors who have a "Routine Tasks Contract" with the
project would have to visit the service center at least one full day per fortnight. Local consultants and the
staff of the advisory centers would receive around three weeks of training with an initial focus on the
functioning of the service provider network, extension and advisory methodologies and monitoring
mechanisms. The following year two weeks of refresher training would be offered, focusing on feed back
from the field, the fieldwork itself, and on other identified important topics.
3. Selection Process
An interested service provider would submit a proposal detailing its service capacities, the staff at the
advisory center, and the local consultant identified to work with the center. A commission nominated by
the National Extension Board would review all proposals. Selection would be based on predetermined
selection criteria and proposals would be ranked accordingly. Results of the short-listing process would be
submitted to ACSA, which would decide on the final number of service providers to be contracted.
The proposals would be analyzed by an evaluation committee according to the following selection criteria:
(a) SP's experience; (b) SP's facilities and equipment; (c) curricula vitae of core staff; (d) curricula vitae of
additional staff; (e) problem analysis work area; and (f) work plan.
The evaluation process is central to the concept of a competitive bidding procedure, assuring transparency,
which allows for the broadest participation possible and the selection of the best SPs based purely on
qualitative criteria. As such, the evaluation team would be requested to:
*   Review the proposal against the approved set of criteria;
*   Evaluate proposals according to the criteria-weighting schedule;
*   Support criteria ratings with detailed comments as necessary;
- 51 -



*   Support recommendations with detailed comments that may be communicated to applicants;
and
*   Submit all completed review documentation, including proposals, to ACSA by the due date.
The selection process of the SP and the evaluation work of the SP would require approval by the NEB. In
addition, the SP selected in the first year would require approval by the WB. The selection process would
be continued in year two in time to allow contracting of the SPs by February.
4.     Selection Criteria
The SP must:
(a)   Provide the basic office, training facilities and at least two core staff members working from the
SP's office, one trained in the legal, financial or management field, and the other in the agronomy,
veterinary or animal husbandry field.
(b)   Provide an assessment of its regional coverage (number of villages, number of primarias), a
description of how it intends to cooperate with other specialists or organizations of different
professional backgrounds in the specified localities to address questions of different disciplines,
and a plan for how it is intends to cooperate with farmers and farmer groups on the development of
the advisory program.
(c)   Submit an assessment of the main problems in its area and describe how it plans to support the
clients in overcoming these problems (including the composition of the proposed team).
(d)   Be registered as a legal entity with a special bank account and an acceptable, intemal financial
administration.
(e)   Have qualified staff with at least six months experience in the field of advisory services in the area
for which it is tendering.
5. The Role of CAPMU
CAPMU would have the overall responsibility of overseeing, coordinating and monitoring project
implementation. CAPMU would appoint one full-time staff project coordinator, reporting directly to the
General Manager of CAPMU and then through to the Agricultural Steering Committee. In particular,
CAPMU would be responsible for:
* Coordination and supervision of the implementation of the component's concept as described
in detail in the Implementation manual of the RISP Rural Advisory Component;
* Participation in and monitoring of the selection process of SPs;
* Monitoring and assessment of the performances of SPs and ACSA;
* Coordination of dissemination of information related to the Rural Advisory component of
RISP;
* Supervision of training programs for SP's advisors and procedures of certification;
* Clear quarterly reports submitted by ACSA and by SPs;
* Cooperate with all institutions and organizations actively involved in advisory services in
Moldova; and
* Providing the GOM with information, statistics and advice on the development of the
advisory network within the Republic of Moldova.
6. Contractual Arrangements
- 52 -



Three types of contracts would be issued under the Rural Advisory Services component: (a) the contract
between ACSA and the Service Provider centers for the standard routine contract package, (b) contracts
between the service provider center and the local consultants to deliver the standard package; and (c)
special contracts for additional specific topics with demonstrated need or for the establishment of
demonstration plots.
(a)    Contractual Arrangements between ACSA and SP. The contracts that the project would offer to
Service Providers would have a maximum duration of eleven months. The contracts summarize the
activities of the service providers and specify the number of and general scope of contracts the Service
Provider may enter with his teamn of local consultants. A total contracted time of SPs and tearn of local
consultants would not be more than 60% of the total available time of the consultants; this percentage
would decrease to 40% at the end of the project period.
(b)    Contractual Arrangementi between SP and Local Consultants or Sub-contractors. The SP's
core staff would enter into contracts with its team of local consultants. The routine contract would provide
for the same amount of time for the local consultants as well as the SP core team. The contract amount per
consultant would be fixed. The SP is required to present its contractual arrangements with its local
consultant and potential sub-contracied agencies before the contract between ACSA and SP is finalized.
(c)    Special Contracts. There would be two types of special contracts: special contracts for the
contracted SPs in addition to their rcutine contracts and special contracts for organizations to conduct
clearly specified activities. SPs can apply for special contracts to conduct special activities which have
proven in high demand by farmers inD the area, examples of which include demonstration plots, special
seminars or special outside advice needed for certain topics.
Cost Sharing by Beneficiaries. The advisory services promoted would operate on the concept of cost
participation by beneficiaries. For certain activities, beneficiaries would be expected to share the cost of
advisory services. The services requiring cost participation could potentially include:
*   Advice that leads to production increase, provided the production can be easily measured,
marketed and leads to increased income: the advisor may agree with clients to be paid a
proportion of the marginal yield (the yield above the agreed normal average);
*   Educational and informational material: efforts would be made to recover at least the printing
costs of the more elaborate manuals or magazines;
*   Assistance in preparing farm accounts for tax purposes; and
*   Preparation of a business plan to accompany a credit application.
7. Financing and Reporting Mechanisms
Reporting Mechanisms
Regular reporting would be done at several levels. On the local level, monthly reporting would be required,
while reporting between the regional ;md the central level would be done on a quarterly basis:
(a)    Local consultants submit monthly reports to their SP center. These reports should comprise a
detailed description of activities conducted, including the names of farmers visited, the number of villages
visited, the number of seminars or groups meetings conducted and other related topics. These reports would
also include plans on the activities foreseen for the following month. Reports by the local consultants would
be filed in the SP center and would be available on request by ACSA for monitoring and evaluation
- 53 -



purposes.
(b)    The SP core staff would report quarterly to the ACSA. These reports should include a summary of
the activities conducted by the SP team and would also include financial statements. ACSA would call
quarterly meetings with all SPs in alternating service provider centers to discuss the quarterly reports
delivered by the SPs and the main issues arising from the reports.
(c)    ACSA would combine the quarterly reports of all SPs into a summary report that would be
presented to the NEB and CAPMU for its quarterly meetings. The report would include a description of
existing problems, the main activities conducted and an assessment of the main areas of demand for advice
by farmers. The NEB would give recommendations based on these reports and would support any
necessary adjustment of strategy decisions for the following period.
Flow of Funds
Based on the contract, ACSA would pay SP teams in installments upon receiving and approval of the
required progress reports from the SPs. SPs would then pay their teams of local consultants according to
their contracts. Payments for special contracts would be made according to the conditions specified in the
contract.
8. Training Activities and Certification of Extension Consultants
The component would provide both formal and informal training. The component design encourages
informal training among SPs through its networking approach. Formal training would be provided to the
selected SPs before the actual implementation of the advisory activities on the ground. This would cover
among other topics, methodologies of extension, legal issues related to farm activities in Moldova, farm
management issues, technological issues, and marketing. The SP core staff would receive additional
training in the operation of the service center as well as on accounting and reporting requirements. ACSA
would prepare the training in cooperation with a training specialist advising on suitable approaches to the
various training activities.
Project Component 2 - US$2.49 million
II. Rural Business Development
The Rural Business Development Component would finance technical assistance, training of trainers and
rural entrepreneurs, and operational support for local development agencies (DAs) with an aim to create
legally registered, self-owned and sustainable rural businesses, which would be potential clients of financial
institutions. The component would provide, based on expressed demand, support for the formation of
viable farmer organizations (FOs), agro-businesses, marketing entities, and other rural businesses with
proper legal and operational status. This component would extend beyond the basic advisory information
services provided in the first component by providing a comprehensive program of information campaigns
and promotions, an institutionalized system of training, and an opportunity for gap assessment of at the
village level. This component would also make available: (a) support for the preparation of group business
strategies, (b) identification of profitable products and potential markets, (c) assistance in conceptualizing
business ideas, developing business plans, and preparing loan packages, and (d) technical assistance needed
to start the operations. Once established and in operation, groups could also receive post-creation support
on a cost-sharing basis. FOs and agro-businesses with viable business plans would potentially have access
to investment and working capital credits under the rural finance component of the project, subject to the
discretion of participating financial institutions (PFIs).
- 54 -



All forms of private ownership would be supported, including individual private farmers, individual
enterprises, cooperatives, limited liability firms, and joint stock companies. The aftermath of the land
privatization has confirmed that farrmers could join their efforts and rationalize the scale and production
mode by forming FOs or cooperatives. FOs are considered to be an efficient and democratic tool to enhance
rural businesses and services which otherwise would not be accessible to individual farmers. The Savings
and Credit Associations (SCAs) system, started in 1997, is a good example of a successful FO movement.
The recently enacted Laws on Business Cooperatives provide the necessary legal framework. This
component would also include the provision of information and the required documents for registering
enterprises, confrmation of the lega;l status and legal rights of newly privatized agribusinesses, and other
institutional support for new agribusiness enterprises, including strengthening the operational, financial and
management capacity of client groups.
A detailed operational manual, contract formats, selection criteria and procedures, a broadly baseal
selection committee, and monitoring and evaluation procedures, including a client feedback system have
already been designed, and a pilot project was launched in fall of 2001 with the support of DFID, the Soros
Foundations and the PPF. Three DA.s registered as NGOs are actively participating in the pilot operation.
Participation of additional local NGOs, e.g. the Rural Development Center (RDC), the Moldova
Microfinance Alliance (MMA), producers' associations and other agencies experienced in grassroots
mobilization, would be solicited to advise, promote and stimulate farmer group activity. As of end March
2002, about 50 new businesses have been registered, of which about 40 have finalized business plans, and
a number of loan applications valued at about US$800,000 equivalent have been prepared and submitted.
The results of the pilot are promising, but they also highlight the continuous need for modifications of the
operational implementation modality, reflecting the dynamic nature of the rural economy that is emerging in
rural Moldova.
1. Institutional Set-up
Implementation of this component would involve Development Agencies (DAs) who would provide a broad
range of services to the individuals willing to set up businesses in rural areas, services which would include
pre-registration support (covering explanation of the business concepts, selection of the development
opportunities, business plan development), support during the legal registration process, and
post-registration support to ensure good business operational practices in the new company. Their specific
responsibilities would include:
(a) Promotion of the concept of rural business development to rural population and the dissemination of
materials on potential development opportunities;
(b) Diagnostic studies of the potential for development of rural businesses, and identification and selection
of individuals willing to start up a new individual or group business;
(c) Provision of assistance in assessment of the submitted business proposals, including provisions for
consulting, training and guidance services to selected rural businesses and assistance in defining the best
intemal procedures acceptable by all members of the group businesses;
(d) Assistance in preparing sustainable/bankable business plans and credit applications, including all
documents necessary for registration, financial and operational plans, and intemal regulations for group
businesses;
(e) Provision of assistance to rural businesses during the legal registration process;
(f) Assistance to new rural businesses in developing their operational activities (marketing, accounting,
development/growth) and in establishing efficient managerial and accounting systems.
- 55 -



2. Implementation Arrangements
This component would extend beyond the basic advisory information services provided under the Rural
Advisory Services component by providing a comprehensive program of information campaigns and
promotions, an institutionalized system of training, and an opportunity for gap assessment at the village
level. This component would also make available (a) support for the preparation of group business
strategies, (b) the identification of profitable products and potential markets, (c) assistance in
conceptualizing business ideas, developing business plans, and preparing loan packages, and (d) the
technical assistance needed to start the operations. Once established and operational, the groups would also
receive port-creation support on a cost-sharing basis. FOs and other legally registered business entities with
viable business plans would potentially have access to investment and working capital credits under the
rural finance component of this project, subject to approval of the participating financial institutions
(commercial banks or the RFC).
Three Development Agencies are active in the component project. Each DA has five teams with two
members, a total of 15 Development Teams (DTs). A total of 30 development officers are working in the
field providing support to potential businesses. Each DT would cover an average of 20 villages per year
(or 100 villages over the five-year implementation period), and on an ongoing basis, work with 10 rural
businesses during creation and 20 rural business after creation.
3. Selection Process of Development Agencies (DAs)
A special selection committee, consisting of the representatives from.the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, DFID and four persons from CAPMU would select the participating DAs
on competitive basis. The selected DAs would undergo a rigorous training program to ensure that they have
sufficient capacity to provide high quality support to the potential businesses. The training would include
among other topics:
. Participatory communication and planning techniques;
* Experience accumulated from similar projects in Moldova, such as, the SCA program;
* Case studies of similar Rural Business Development projects in other countries;
. The forms of legal entities that might be created;
* Member Agreements;
* Financing methods available for funding rural businesses;
* Member financing arrangements for farmers' organizations and group rural businesses; and
* Marketing and promotion.
4. The Role of CAPMU
CAPMU would have the overall responsibility for implementing the component, including the selection and
contracting of DAs. CAPMU would appoint one full time staff member reporting directly to the CAPMU
General Manager and then through to the Agricultural Steering Committee. In particular, CAPMU would
be responsible for:
(a) Co-ordination of the creation, development and delivery of information, training and consulting services
necessary for the formation and development of viable rural businesses;
(b) Co-ordination of foreign technical assistance;
(c) Establishment of work plans, targets, quality standards and key indicators for each DA;
- 56 -



(d) Development of work procedures for mobile teams;
(e) Monitoring, supervision, evaluation of the work of DAs against predetermined criteria;
(f) Setting up (including providing the secretariat) specific working parties for ensuring a smooth exchange
of information between the DAs and the other actors involved in rural business development;
(g) Working with Donors involved in rural business development, coordinating their activities; and
(h) Organizing consultation workshops with other programs, institutions, and projects involved in rural
business development in order to harmonize approaches, methodologies and geographic coverage.
5. Contractual arrangements
An annual contract would be signed between DA and CAPMU, which would include detailed termns of
reference for specific activities that DA would provide under the component, including the budget and
funding support
6. Financing and Reporting Procedures
(a) Monitoring and Reporting Arnangements
In order to monitor the implementation of the component, a financial accounting and management system
has been designed, which includes evaluation of actual DA activities in business development against the
annual work plans and disbursement as well as internal control of fund flows to DAs. This system has been
developed with the assistance of a c rtified accountant and verified by an auditor. Annual audits would be
carried out at the end of each calendar year, and would be submitted as a part of the progress report to
IDA.
(b) Flow of funds
All payments to the implementing [DAs would be made through CAPMU against disbursement requests
from DAs. CAPMU's financial management capacity has been strengthened through improvement of the
accounting software used and the hiring of an assistant accountant to ensure sufficient capacity for project
financial management.
7. Expected Outputs and Outcomes of the Component
The component would generate:
(a) Rural businesses and FOs created and owned by farmers, run for their benefit and having an open
membership. They would be legal entities, with operational and management structures that are equipped to
function in a market economy. The legal structure would be designed to meet the operational requirements
of the business being created as well as the needs and aspirations of members;
(b) Increased awareness among the rural population of the benefits and requirements of developing both
individual and group businesses in nrral areas;
(c) Consistent and clear information and hands-on guidance on various aspects of business creation;
(d) Advice, assistance and training during the formation and post creation of rural businesses;
(e) Local capacity of trained business development agencies;
(f) Improved linkages between different agents involved in rural activities ( rural business, FOs, traders,
processors, public administration, advisory services, commercial banks, etc.); and
(g) Recommendations and good practices to be shared by all interested parties involved in rural business
development.
- 57 -



In quantitative terms, the project is expected to create and launch at least 900 individual and 600 group
rural businesses to actual operation. These would represent an annual average of 150 individual and 100
group rural businesses to be supported each year.
Project Component 3 - US$ 13.75 million
Ill. Rural Finance
The Rural Finance Component would provide post-privatization support to Moldova's agricultural and
rural sectors through a variety of credit instruments, channeled through the commercial banks and Rural
Finance Corporation (RFC). During the first phase, this component would provide US$13.25 million of
credit line and US$0.5 million of technical assistance.
This component would provide investment and working capital credits at commercial terms to support a
broad range of private agricultural and rural enterprises owned by joint stock companies, limited liability
companies, cooperatives, and individuals. The project area would be restricted to rural Moldova, defined as
the whole of the country except the official municipal boundaries of the two major cities: Chisinau and
Balti.
This component would also provide technical assistance to strengthen the rural financial system through
capacity building support for commercial banks particularly in rural lending. Commercial banks are
generally reluctant to lend to agricultural clients because: (a) the typical loan size is too small and
transaction costs are too high; (b) small scale clients normally do not have adequate collateral; (c) lending
to rural sectors is perceived to be risky due to a lack of client information, past lending history, and
accounts; and (d), the still imperfect legal system to enforce loan recovery makes repossession and disposal
of pledged assets extremely difficult. These constraints would be addressed under the project. In addition,
technical assistance specifically on lending to agriculture would be provided to PFIs through the existing
banking training center.
Additionally, this component would expand and strengthen the current functions and capacities of the Rural
Finance Corporation (RFC) and Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs), established under the Rural
Finance Project (FY98). The following weaknesses and issues have been identified as outstanding at the
closing of the RFP and would be addressed under RISP. They include: (a) small membership and bond
association; (b) management of the SCA by one or two persons; (c) weak financial and overall management
of SCAs, (d) inadequate financial controls; and (e) lack of training. Extensive training of both SCA
management teams and other members would be proposed as a key activity to deal with the identified
shortcomings. The component would also improve, through technical assistance, the legal and regulatory
system to support commercial lending to rural clients. This includes strengthening the regulatory and
supervisory capacity of the State Supervisory Body (SSB) and National Federations of SCAs (NFSCA). In
the past, the regulatory activities of the SSB have been constrained for several reasons, including the
rapidly increasing number of new SCAs, an insufficient budget, the absence of highly qualified staff, and
lack of comprehensive prudential norms, to name just a few. The National Federation of SCAs, which was
created to represent interest of SCAs, also faces several similar problems in its development. The project
would provide help to these two organizations through technical assistance and training.
The component would have three sub-components: (a) a General Commercial Credit Line, including
lending to SCAs; (b) A Special Credit Line with a Matching Grant; and (c) Institutional Capacity Building.
- 58 -



1. Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Participating financial institutions (PFIs) would sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with the
Ministry of Finance. Eligibility criteria of PFIs are discussed in detail in the next section of this annex.
Among other criteria, the SLA would specify the following:
(a) The Subsidiary Loan would be denominated in MDL and /or US$;
(b) The interest rate on the MDL portion would be variable (floating) based on the reference rate which
shall be equal to the average between the annual inflation rate projected by NBM for the current year and
the actual inflation rate of the preceding year. The reference rate shall be reviewed jointly with IDA, MOF,
and PFIs and revised semi-annually as necessary. To the basic reference rate, a fixed margin of 1% would
be added for administration costs and a margin of 1-2% to cover the foreign exchange risks bome by the
Borrower. The FX premium would be revised, based on the actual fluctuations of the currency during the
interest adjustment;
(c) The interest rate on the US$ portion would be variable (floating), based on the reference rate which
shall equal the 6-month LIBOR rate for US$. The reference rate shall be reviewed jointly with II)A, MOF,
and PFIs and revised semi-annually. A margin of 1% would be added at all times to the reference rate to
compensate the Borrower for its administrative costs and risks; and
(d) Subsidiary Loan period. The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by PFIs over a
period of 15 (fifteen) years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 3 (three) years, in accordance with a
detailed amortization schedule that would be furnished to the PFI by MOF before the expiration of the
grace period indicated above.
Other terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements arefully detailed in the Rural Credit
Guidelines (RCGs). During negoliations, the RCG and SLA would be discussed and agreed upon and
attached to the Minutes of the Negotiations.
2. Eligibility Criteria and Procediures for Selection of PFIs
The project would be implemented lhrough commercial banks and RFC. In order to be a Participating
Financial Institution (PFI), commercial banks must meet, at all times, a set of financial and management
criteria and have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
Potential PFIs are individually appraised by the Intemational Development Association (IDA) and the
Borrower, in conjunction with the CAPMU and the Technical Unit (created for monitoring of commercial
banks under IBRD's Private Sector Development Loan), with particular attention given to the overall
lending capabilities and the financial. and portfolio performances. The same standards shall be used by the
CAPMU to constantly monitor the continued eligibility of currently operating PFIs. A PFI would be
required to meet the criteria outlined below:
A. General Standards:
(a)    Comply with all banking laws and prudential regulations of the National Bank of Moldova (based
on BASEL stabdards) acceptable to IDA.
(b)    Undergo an annual audit that is conducted in accordance with intemational accounting and auditing
standards.
- 59 -



B. Financial Standards:
(a)    At all times, meet the prudential regulations issued by the National Bank of Moldova, with a
particular focus on the following:
* Maintaining at all times the required risk based capital adequacy ratio of at least 12%;
. Meeting the minimum capital requirements established by the NBM from time to time for the
respective type of license B or C, as held by the PFI. Banks holding an A license would not be
eligible to become a PFI;
. Maintaining a level of loan loss provision at all times at least equal to the minimum required
according to the regulations of the NBM;
. Being in full compliance with the legal reserve requirements of the NBM;
* Limiting its exposure to a single, related, connected borrower and insider parties to a percentage
of the PFIs' total capital, as defined and prescribed by the NBM,
(b)    Have a positive net income for the current and immediately preceding financial years, as reflected
in the financial statements audited in accordance with IAS.
C. Managerial Standards:
(a)    Have qualified and experienced management;
(b)    Have a Board of Directors, responsible for setting the overall bank policy and for performing
appropriate oversight of the bank's operations;
(c)    Have a sound business plan with appropriate budgeting and budget control procedures;
(d)    Have sound lending policies and procedures;
(e)    Have adequate and functioning intemal audit unit, and satisfactory internal control and audit
procedures, confimned by external auditors;
(f)    Not be exposed to undue interest rate risk, confirmed by annual audited financial statements;
(g)    Have an internal reporting and management information system capable of providing sufficient
information necessary for managing the bank's operations, performance and risks.
D. Other Standards:
(a)    Have a sufficient network of branches in rural areas or an adequate network of mobile credit
officers; and
(b)    Have the necessary staff, knowledge, physical and other resources to implement the credit line
under the     Project.
3. Comparable Rates for the Basic Reference Rates
The proposed cost of funds would be positive in real terms and compares favorably with the other existing
comparable interest rates in the market as of end-February 2002:
COF to PFIs under RISP in MDL                 10.2%
Average rate on deposits in MDL               12.47%*
Deposits over 12 months, for legal entities, in MDL  13.93%*
Interbank market rates in MDL                 5.84%
- 60 -



NBM's long-term (over 5 years) credit rate    113.5**l
* Although the actual annual inflation for 2001 was 63%, the deposit rates remain high; due to the lack of full credibility in the
commercial banking sector, the banks must pay a "risk premium" to encourage clients to place deposits.
** This long-term rate is set by the NBM, as it is serving a number of state programs; this rate is calculated on the- basis of the
inflation level over the last five years.
4. Detailed Features of the Credit Lines
A. A General Commercial Crediit Line (US $ 7.725 million)
This Credit Line (CIL) would finance the provision of investment and working capital loans to the private
agricultural and rural sectors at prevailing interest rates and commercial terms through the eligible PFIs.
This credit would be open to a broad range of creditworthy rural entrepreneurs, including producers,
processors, marketing and service enterprises, and other private enterprises in rural areas. It is envisioned
that the ratio between investment leans and working capital loans (excluding the portion of funds disbursed
to SCAs) is expected to be at least 75%: 25%.
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects. In order to achieve the Project Objectives, eligible sub-projects
would include:
(a) on-farm investments for development of agricultural and livestock production, including the provision
of seasonal working capital credit, as appropriate;
(b) investments (including permanent working capital) for development of processing, storage, packing,
marketing and other related agricultural service sectors and agro-businesses; and
(c) diverse rural productive and cornmercial activities based on sound business plans and demonstrated
repayment capacity. Such activities would include small-scale production, artisans, trade, rural tourism,
handicraft production, etc.
All proposed sub-projects would be supported by sound business plans, demonstrating technical and
financial viability, satisfactory cash flow and loan repayment capacity.
Eligible Beneficiaries. Eligible beneficiaries would include farmers, small- and medium scale agricultural
processing, marketing, and service enterprises and non-agricultural rural economic activities, operating as
joint stock companies, limited liability companies, farmers' associations, cooperatives, partnerships or
individuals.
Sub-borrowers' Participation. Sub-borrowers should be required to make contributions of no less than
20% in cash or in kind from their own resources towards sub-project costs. This excludes sub-loans
financed under sub-component B as described below.
Repayment Terms and Interest Rates of Sub-loans. Repayment schedules of sub-loans financed under
the Credit Line would be based on projected cash flows and repayment capacity of sub-borrowers, and
would include a grace period of up to 3 years, as and when required and justified. Grace and amortization
periods would be based on the type of investment financed and the projected (estimated) cash flow, and
would be commensurate with the repayment capacity of the borrower. However, in no case would
repayment periods exceed the useful life of the investment financed. In this connection, it should be noted
that appraisal projections made by the PFI should demonstrate a debt service coverage ratio of minimum
1.3 over the life of the sub-project for investment projects, calculated on the basis of the borrower's total
debts, and a net cash flow of at least 1.20% of the loan amount for working capital loans.
- 61 -



Choice of Currency of Sub-loans. PFIs would make sub-loans to beneficiaries denominated and
repayable in either US$ or MDL, as determined by each sub-borrower at the time of signing the sub-loan
agreement with the PFI.
B. Lending to Savings and Credit Associations
This sub-component would provide financing for qualified SCAs that meet the prudential regulations.
Repayment Terms and Interest Rates of Sub-loans. The repayment period of sub-loans to SCA,
principal and interest shall not exceed 12 months.
Currency of Sub-loans. All sub-loans for the SCAs shall be denominated and repayable only in MDL.
C. A Special Credit Line with a matching grant (US$ 5.525 million).
This sub-component would provide sub-loans for investment and investment-related working capital as and
when justified, to new, post-privatization rural businesses in whatever legal form, to registered family
farms, and to individual entrepreneurs in rural areas. The loan would be complemented by a matching
grant. Under this sub-component, borrowers would have a one-time restricted access to the grant.
The Government has requested that this special credit line be included in the Project because these newly
created enterprises, emerging private farmners and rural entrepreneurs, lack the credit history, the necessary
self-financing (normally 20-30%), and/or adequate collateral normally required by commercial banks. In
order to help overcome the problems of inadequate equity and collateral and to give initial access to
commercial credit, the proposal of a one-time matching investment grant - up to 20% of the sub-loan
amount - to complement the commercial loan as a substitute for the equity requirement is under
consideration. The grant is also expected to encourage adoption of new fanning or improved production
technologies while facilitating access to commercial credit by groups and individual borrowers. As with the
General credit line, all sub-projects should be supported by sound business plans.
These loans would be provided at commercial lending terms and interest rates, and PFIs would have full
autonomy in loan approval. The maximum loan amount to one borrower would be kept relatively low in
the beginning and would be limited to US$ 30,000 equivalent.
Maximum financing size: Under this special support credit line, the maximum loan size shall not exceed
US$ 30,000 equivalent. The additional benefit to sub-borrowers of this credit line, the matching grant, shall
be limited in size to 20% of the eligible sub-loan amount.
Eligibility criteria for sub-projects: Eligible are investments in any economic activity: agriculture
(production, processing and marketing, input supply and service provision), small-scale industry, trade and
commerce, rural tourism, handicrafts, services, other non-agricultural economic activities that are
considered economically and financially viable, as well as technically feasible. The activity should have an
acceptable business plan, and, on the basis of the projected cash flow, demonstrate the ability of the
sub-borrower to service the sub-loan according to the repayment terms agreed between the PFI and the
sub-borrower. The debt service ratio (DSR) for the sub-loan should be no less than 1.3, calculated on the
credit portion of the sub-loan.
Eligible Beneficiaries for the Special Credit Line
- 62 -



Eligible beneficiaries of this special credit line include any newly registered enterprise in whatever legal
form - individual entrepreneur, farmer, limited liability company, joint stock company, business
cooperative, etc. - as well as first-time borrowers from a financial institution (except those borrowing from
SCAs). Beneficiaries must permaneiltly reside in their localities.
Sub-borrower's Participation. Sub-borrowers under this sub-component shall be required to contribute
from their own resources, in cash or in kind, no less than 10% of the estimated cost of sub-projects.
Repayment Terms and Interest Rates of Sub-loans. Generally, sub-loans would comprise two
components; first, a credit portion subject to regular repayment with interest, and second, a GRANT
portion, which would be a "standing loan" with a balloon payment due on the final maturity date of the
loan portion. The grant portion would not exceed 20 % of the sub-loan amount. The credit portion would
bear regular prevailing commercial interest rates, as determined by the PFI. Grace and amortization periods
for the credit portion of the sub-loan shall be based on the type of investment financed and the projected
cash flow, and they should be commensurate with the type of beneficiaries financed and their repayment
capacity. The SCL would support investment loans with a minimum 2 year repayment period, based on
actual cash-flow.
Currency of Sub-loans. All sub-loans would be denominated in MDL.
D. Proposed Operational Modalities for Implementation of the Investment Grant under the Special
Credit Line
(a) The grant portion would be financed by the MOF, intemational donor organizations and possibly IDA
(if adequate donor funding is not available). Since the grant portion does not bear interest, the grant funds
would be transferred by the financiers to a special, non-interest bearing Grant Funding Account with the
MOF. CAPMU would be responsible for transferring the grant resources to the PFIs, in accordance with
the Statements of Expenditures submitted on the special sub-loans granted to beneficiaries and upon
confimning the eligibility of the sub-projects to receive the grant. Funds received by PFIs, would be credited
to a special, non-interest bearing inve itment grant deposit account.
(b) Upon full and timely repayment cf the credit portion of the special sub-loan with interest, and full
compliance with all other conditions stipulated in the sub-loan agreement, the beneficiary would not be
obliged to repay the grant portion to tie PFI.
(c) In case of non-compliance by the sub-borrower with conditions of the sub-loan agreement, or in the
case of misuse of funds or default on the regular repayment of the credit portion by more than (5) five
working days, beneficiaries would be required to repay, with interest, the full grant (balloon) portion of the
sub-loan, upon demand, in accordance with conditions to be included in the sub-loan agreement, and not on
the final maturity date as stipulated in the sub-loan agreements. The repaid grant portion funds shall be
used for financing of grant portion of niew loans.
(d) The operation of this investment grant arrangement would be reviewed by MOF, in conjunction with
CAPMU and the Intemational Development Association at least once a year, or more often, should the
information/reports furnished by PFIs, as mentioned above, warrant such review.
E. Rural Finance Component - Imiplementing Agencies
- 63 -



CAPMU, which has solid experience in implementing IBRD and IDA projects, would have the overall
responsibility for overseeing, coordinating and monitoring project implementation as well as ensuring that
all legal agreements, project-related guidelines and instructions are complied with. CAPMU has hired a
full-time staff project coordinator. Under the Rural Finance Component, CAPMU's areas of responsibility
include:
(a) Overall relations with IDA including liaison with IDA task manager and staff and IDA
disbursement department, on all project-related matters;
(b) Periodic allocation of Credit funds to PFI, in accordance with the request received from PFI,
based on performance of each PFI in project implementation, efficiency, lending costs and margins,
as well as other considerations established by the Agricultural Steering Committee;
(c) Review of statements of expenditure (SOE) and related documentation submitted by PFI to
CAPMU, to verify eligibility of sub-borrowers and sub-loans and to confirm, in writing, of
approval or disapproval of SOEs;
(d) Preparation of applications for withdrawal of funds from the Credit, both directly from IDA
and from the Special Account opened and maintained by MOF in a local bank;
(e) Transfer of Credit funds, including funds for investment grants, to participating financial
institutions (PFI) based on statements of expenditure mentioned above;
(f) Supervision and monitoring of lending activities by PFI to ensure compliance with terrns and
conditions of subsidiary loan agreements and RCG; periodic reviews of interest rate structure and
lending margins, assessments of the quality of the Project financed loan portfolio, adequacy of
lending procedures, and identification of technical assistance requirements by PFI;
(g) Maintenance of the data base on all financial transactions related to all components of the
Project, preparation of the Consolidated Project Account and Project related financial statements,
and the safeguarding of all supporting documentation;
(h) Monitoring, in coordination with NBM, of PFIs' continuing compliance with eligibility
criteria;
(i) Ensuring that adequate information on all project-related financial transactions is submitted to,
processed and recorded by MOF, in accordance with procedures agreed between MOF and
CAPMU; and
(j) Collection of necessary information from all participants in project implementation for
preparation of periodic Project progress and other reports, to be submitted to GOM, IDA etc.
It would be the responsibility of the MOF to:
(a) maintain the Credit account for the IDA credit and service the Credit in accordance with
agreed repayment schedule;
(b) sign subsidiary loan agreements with PFI and maintain respective subsidiary loan accounts;
- 64 -



(c) maintain accounts for the investment grant funds deposited with PFI;
(d) maintain accounts on gnut funds received from other donors;
(e) prepare payment notices for interest and principal payable on account of subsidiary loans and
ensure timely collection from PFI;
(f) review, periodically, witlh CAPMU and in consultation with IDA, interest rates to be charged
on subsidiary loans to PFIs;
(g) maintain accounts on interest collected from PFI, both in US$ and domestic currency and the
application (utilization) of funds collected for coverage of foreign exchange differences and other
purposes; and
(h) contract, jointly with CAPMU, external auditors, acceptable to the IDA, to audit the project
accounts, in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement and IDA requirements.
Technical Unit (TU) was created under the First Private Sector Development Project (PSD 1) as an
independent unit at the NBM, with a number of functions, including but not limited to the selection of PFIs
and the monitoring of their continued eligibility for the implementation of the credit line resources, as well
as the development and implementation of the C/L provisions and regulations, including ongoing
supervision of their compliance by PFIs and beneficiaries; etc.
The TU has recently been moved to the MOF. Under RISP, the TU would continue to:
(a) qualify and disqualify the PFIs for participation in IDA credit lines;
(b) monitor the PFIs according to the agreed eligibility criteria; and
(c) collect the relevant financial data and other information for regular due diligence worlc, and (d)
cooperate closely with IDA t:eam and the National Bank of Moldova to ensure that RISP PFIs
meet the project eligibility criteria at all times.
Project PFIs - Commercial Banks and RFC. All disbursements from the credit line to final beneficiaries
(sub-borrowers) would take place through commercial banks and Rural Finance Corporation, which has set
up a new direct lending department.
F. Financing and Reporting Mechanisms
(a) Accounts and Record-keeping. For the subsidiary loan, the PFIs would maintain separate
subsidiary loan accounts in the respective currencies (US$ or MDL) for each portion of the Credit
Line (sub-components A and B) withdrawn. PFIs have to establish in their accounting systems the
appropriate accounting codes to permit identification of sub-loans made under the Project.
Separate codes should be introduced for sub-loans under each sub-component (A and B) and for
sub-loans according to the currency of denomination.
(b) Reporting Requiremenls. The project PFIs would be required to submit to CAPMU periodic
(quarterly) Project progress reports in accordance with uniform reporting formats that would be
prescribed by CAPMU.
(c) Audit. The accounts and any additional records maintained by the PFIs should be adequate to
- 65 -



reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Credit Line operations under the Project.
Flow of Funds
Periodically, as agreed between the PFI and the CAPMU, PFIs would prepare Statements of Expenditure
(SOE), in the format described in Attachment I of the Rural Credit Guidelines (RCG). Separate SOEs
shall be submitted for sub-loans denominated in US$ and MDL, and separate SOEs shall be submitted for
sub-components A and B. SOEs shall be submitted, together with Sub-project Information Sheets
(Attachment 2 of the RCG) and other sub-loan related supporting documents, as requested by CAPMU, to
CAPMUJ for review and clearance. Promptly after receipt of withdrawal applications, CAPMU shall review
such applications and accompanying documentation. CAPMU shall inform the PFI in writing regarding
approval or denial of the withdrawal application. CAPMU shall consolidate the SOEs received from PFIs,
withdraw eligible funds from the Credit Line, and transfer them to the account of PFI as indicated in the
successful withdrawal application of the PFI.
- 66 -



Flow of Funds and Decision-makin,g under the Rural Finance Component
International Development Association
(IDA)
5tep 5. Funds are transferred by         Step 4.A. CAPMtJ
L       IDA to the SA                  submits the request for
credit funds to IDA
Special Acco Jnt
CAPMU ensures transfer offunds from the SA to the
PFI
Ministry of Finance               \
_ \     ~Step 4.B1. CAPMU     \      \
Step.6.B. Gr;mt         submits to MOF
funds are            request for grant
transferred IO             portion
PFI        \                            CAPMU
Step 6.A.                                              Reviews the submitted documents and
Credit funds                                                  consolidates the SOEs
are transferred
to the PFI
Step 3. List of approved
loans submitted to CAPMU
for review.
Participating Financial Institution (PFI)
Approves or rejects the loan application
Step 2. Approved                                       l      Step 1. Borrower
loans are financed b                                           submits the loan
the PFI                \ /                         4,       application
Beneficiary (with a grant)                  Beneficiary (with a grant)
Submits the loan application !o the PFI     Submits the loan application to the PFI
Project Component 4 - US$0.50 million
IV. Project Management
This component would provide technical and financial support for Project management. Project
implementation and supervision would be the responsibility of the Consolidated Agricultural
Projects Management Unit (CAP MU), which has demonstrated its capability to manage the
implementation and preparation cf Bank-funded projects in Moldova's rural sector, specifically,
- 67 -



the First Agriculture Project, the Rural Finance Project and the Rural Investment and Services
Project. CAPMU staff would handle common administrative functions and help develop the
necessary administrative and financial management skills in the various agencies and field units
that would implement the different Project components. Some funds would be set aside for special
studies in areas not directly covered by the Project components, including, for example, the
consolidation of fragmented land holdings into viable farms. The budget for the Project
management component would also include funding for Project monitoring and evaluation of
activities as well as for the annual audits of the Project accounts.
- 68 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOLDOVA: RUFRAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
L,n"' '                                    '--R    '.'       '-;'  Local  -.Forei n-  Total
'-O-j--'-S$ n '  1st,Xbrn,Op<On-entq  H  ' 2'-' USg.$milli6n  -US $million  US $milion
1. Rural Advisory Services                                 2.07         0.73          2.80
2. Rural Business Development Services                     1.53          0.83         2.36
3.A Rural Finance Credit Lines                             5.57          7.55        13.12
3.B Rural Finance Technical assistance                     0.14          0.33         0.47
4.Project Management                                       0.38          0.10         0.48
Total Baseline Cost                                        9.69          9.54         19.23
Physical Contingencies                                    0.06          0.08         0.14
Price Contingencies                                       0.22          0.10         0.32
Total Project Costs'               9.97         9.72         19.69
Total Financing Required               9.97          9.72         19.69
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 19.69 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 53.33% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 69 -



Annex 4 Economic and Financial Analysis
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Analysis Summary
The Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) would contribute toward the creation of viable private
farms, farm organizations (FOs), and agribusinesses that would have adequate access to information,
advisory services, marketing support and ultimately financial resources. Since the project is based on
demand by clients, and involves credit line operations, it is not possible to estimate a priori the types and
magnitudes of sub-projects that will be financed under the project. Therefore, no attempt was made to
estimate aggregate economic rates of return of the project. Instead, a series of crop budgets, farm models
and other typical investment models have been developed as indicative results that are expected from the
project. Two categories of benefits have been considered: (a) at the farm level; and (b) at the FO/rural
enterprise level. Detailed analytical models and results of the analysis are available in the project files.
Crop Budgets and Farm Model Investment Analysis
The main quantifiable benefits at the farm level will be improved agricultural production in terms of both
an increase in crop productivity and an improvement in product quality. Enhanced marketability of these
products will also command higher farm gate prices. The potential direct and indirect benefits captured in
the analysis include: (a) increased efficiency due to improved access to high quality inputs and an enhanced
flow of technical information; (b) increased value added of agricultural commodities; (c) improved
marketing practices resulting from efficient flow of price and marketing information; (d) more efficient
organization of marketing activities at the village level; (e) introduction of new products and services; (f)
increased exports of primary and processed agricultural products; and (g) improved capacity of commercial
banks, Rural Finance Corporation and Savings and Credit Associations, which will increase both access to
credit and resource mobilization by the rural population. In addition to improving welfare in the rural
areas, the project is also expected to enhance govemance at the village level as a result of the formation of
FOs, which are based on participatory planning and democratic and autonomous decision making. With
increased access to information and advice, self confidence of the village communities would be improved
and the sense of isolation of rural areas would be reduced.
Crop budgets for eight representative key commodities (sunflowers, winter barley, maize, grapes, sugar
beets, tomato, onion, and potato) were prepared for "with" and "without project" scenarios. It was assumed
that the credit line would provide working capital for quality inputs as well as for long-term investment in
modem production equipment. In addition, farmers would have access to quality advisory services. The
"without-project" scenario is based on the current practice (use of low quality seeds, very little fertilizers
and hardly any chemicals). In the "with-project" scenario, farm gate prices are assumed to rise moderately
(5 - 10 percent) as a result of a better quality of agricultural products and more competitive marketing
channels. Incremental gross margins from improved use of inputs, modem equipment and benefiting from
new agricultural techniques also are expected to be substantial, ranging from 45 percent for sunflowers to
as much as 200 percent for potatoes. The results show substantial increases in yields (60 to 90 percent
incremental yields) compared to their present levels, resulting from the use of better seeds, more fertilizes,
better agronomic technology, etc. and potential increases in farm incomes. Performance of the improved
seeds, and improved increases of yield is based on actual field test results.
- 70 -



Table 1:Incremental Gross Margin (GM) per Crop
GM per ha cropped     Winter    Winter    Maize     Sun     Sugar beet Potato  Vegetable  Fruit
wheat     barley              flower                     (Tomato)  (Grape)
Present            94        74        208       58      82        323      439        422
Future             141       114       328       84       163      965      991        841
Incremental (%)    +50%      +53%      +58%      +45%    +100%     +198%    +126%      +99%
Farm model analyses for a 2 hectare farm representing a typical small farm, and a 15 hectare farm
representing a typical, medium-size: farm were carried out. Typical cropping pattems prevailing in
Moldova were assumed in both cases. Small farms tend to engage more in labor intensive cropping patters,
such as vegetables, while medium-size farms tend to cultivate more field crops such as wheat (mainly due
to access to equipment) and fruit orchards (mainly due to their ability to finance working capital during
long gestation periods). Farm profitability and incremental income appear to be less correlated to the size
of farms and more dependent on their cropping patterns. Details are available in the project files.
Table 2:       Medium-Size Indihidual Farm Model - Average 15 hectares (US$)
Cropping pattern hectare  Gross margin / ha  Gross margin / ha  Incremental  Incremental
before Project  after 5 year Project GM per ha  Farm
Income
Winter Wheat     34%           5.10     94               141             47            240
Winter barley    7%            1.05     74               114             39            41
Maize            17%           2.55     208              328             120           306
Sunflower        11%           1.65     58               84              26            43
Sugar Beet       7%            1.05     82               163             82            86
Potato           2%            0.30     323              965             641           192
Vegetable        3%            0.45     439              991             552           248
Fruit            12%           1.80     422              841             418           752
Various          7%            1.05     -                -               -             -
TOTAL            100%           15 ha        __      _                                $2,315
Table 3:      Small Rural Household Model - Average 2 hectares (US$)
Cropping pattern  hectare  Gross margin / ha  Gross margin / ha  Incremental  Incremental
before Project  after 5 year Project GM per ha  Farm
Income
Winter Wheat     22%           0.44     94               141             47            21
Winter barley    8%            0.16     74               114             39            6
Maize            25%           0.50     208              328             120           60
Sunflower        17%           0.34     58               84              26            9
Sugar Beet      3%             0.06     82               163             82            2
Potato          5%             0.10     323              965             641           64
Vegetable       5%             0.10     439              991             552           55
Fruit           8%             0.16     422              841             418           67
Various         7%             0.14                      -               -             -
TOTAL            100%        _2 ha                                                 _   $284
Investment Model for Farmer Organization and Agribusiness Enterprises
- 71 -



Over the five years of RISP implementation, it is assumed that over 500 sustainable FOs will be
established. Based on typical model business plans gathered during the Baseline survey, and assuming FO
membership size based on average membership size of current FOs, the economic benefits of FO/rural
enterprises have been estimated. It was also assumed that the FOs would adopt new agricultural practices
that would lead to improved productivity and quality (estimated to be about 50% as confirmed by
demonstration FOs). In addition, sample investment analyses for FOs, individual commercial farmers, and
agricultural/rural entrepreneurs were developed on the basis of the information gathered by NGOs from
demonstration farms. The detailed work is available in the project files, and a summary is presented below.
These models also assume that potential beneficiaries would have access to long-term credit under the
RISP.
The main assumptions: (a) all the models are based on a ten-year period and in US$ equivalent; (b) when
investments are in production assets/equipment, revenues are assumed to increase gradually and reach full
capacity in year 5; (c) the beneficiaries' contribution is assumed to be 15% of the total sub- project cost;
(d) depreciation has been calculated over 10 years (10%) for all equipment and over 20 years (5%) for all
civil works such as building, assembly work, etc; (e) although conditions on loans will be decided by the
commercial banks, for the models, an interest rate of 20% was assumed, with a maturity of 5 to 7 years and
a one-year grace period on the repayment of the principal; (f) the models for orchards and vineyards
assume longer terms and conditions to reflect the real situation; and (g) a tax of 28% is applied on profit as
required by the law.
Nine representative investment models were developed and analyzed in detail. Confirming the results of the
crop budget analysis, the representative farms (an orchard and a vineyard) and agribusinesses (a milk
collection center, a grain flour mill, a sunflower oil mill, a small-scale fruit drying line, a small-scale
irrigation system, a harvester combine, and a tractor with implements) all show positive incremental net
income and IRR ranges between 20-31%. A notable exception is the small-scale moveable irrigation
system, which shows a very high return of about 50%. Incremental financial benefits at the farm level were
arrived at using a conservative estimation for the expected increase and consolidation of land cultivated by
farmers. Since there are more than 300,000 private farners in Moldova, an aggregate analysis for the
project is too unpredictable and would not be accurate. Hence, aggregate returns have not been estimated.
Orchard Plantation (apple trees)
Investments in orchards, which have long gestation periods, require loans with longer maturity (minimum 8
years) and grace periods (minimum 3 years). In the orchard investment model, 10 farmers form a business
cooperative group by contributing the "use" of I hectare each of their own land, and the group invests in
total about US$24,000 over 3 years in the plantation of apple trees. The apples are expected to be sold
either on neighboring markets for direct consumption or traded to factories to be processed into juice. This
model showed FIRR of 25% and annual potential gross margin per hectare of US$1,141.
Vineyard Plantation
Investments in new vineyards are relatively riskier than orchards because: (a) investment costs are higher;
(b) prices paid for grapes are lower; and (c) they require intensive maintenance during the gestation period
(minimum 3 years), hence they require substantial up-front working capital. Despite the sizeable initial
investment and working capital requirements, returns from vineyards would be also higher. In the case of
table grapes, producers usually sell their grapes on local markets where prices are relatively high or on
export markets where prices are even higher for high quality grapes. For wine grapes, farmers normally
- 72 -



sell to neighboring wineries, at lower prices. The more marketing options farmers have, the better prices
they are able to obtain for their products and this is particularly relevant to wine grape growers. EIven with
relatively high investment costs (US $47,000) mainly due to expensive rootstocks, prices paid to producers
are enough to generate a positive cumulative cash flow. A business model with 10 members shows FIRR
of 20% and annual potential gross margin of US$1,335/hectare.
Milk Collection Center
In the milk collection center investment model, a group of approximately one hundred farmers with 250
cows, sell their milk (with an average yield of 6 liters per cow per day, with 275 lactation days per year).
As a group, the farm gate price of milk increases from 1.30 to 1.50 Lei per liter in average and through the
formation of a business cooperative, and villagers would be able to solve their marketing problems. Milk
quality would also improve when piemium prices are paid for better quality milk. A modelfor a
US$10,300 investment into a milk collection center with 100 milk producers shows a FIRR of 21% and
annual revenue corresponding to fill capacity use of US$6,600.
Grain Mill
Grain is a key element of private farmers cropping patterns. By processing their own grain as a
cooperative, a group of farmers wolid be able to capture value added from wheat production and
processing while enhancing marketing opportunities. The members of the of the small-scale mill
cooperative (the owners) would save the cost of milling and also generate fee incomes from providing
milling services to other external clients (about US $13 per ton of raw materials equivalent). At full
capacity, such a mill could service an area of some 300 hectares (1,000 tons of wheat), equivalent to the
needs of an average Moldovan villagJe. A modelfor a US$24, 700 grain mill with 40 members and 50
external clients shows a FIRR of 28% and annual potential revenue corresponding to its full capacity of
over US$13,000.
Sunflower Oil Mill
Farmers used to suffer from weak marketing channels and monopolistic procurement by large oil mills,
which resulted in crude sunflower oil being sold at lower prices. In the investment model, farmers establish
a cooperative form of an oil processing mill. The members/owners of the small-scale, modem "electric" oil
mill cooperative would save themselves the cost of procuring crushing service for their own sunflower
seeds (they would have to only cover the operating expenses), and also earn crushing fee income from
external clients (about US$14 per ton of raw material). At full capacity, such a mill could service crops
from an area of some 230 ha (600 tons of sunflower seeds), covering one or two villages. An investment of
US$10,600 into such a sunflower oil mill (operating on the same basis as a grain mill) with 40 members
and 50 external client shows a FIRR of 31% and annual potential revenue corresponding to its full
capacity of US$8,400.
Small-Scale Fruit Drvinz Line
While some fruits are grown for direct consumption as fresh produce, another way of processing fruits
consists of drying them. Dry fruits (apple, apricot, grape, plum, etc) are easy to conserve during storage or
transport, and constitute very good products for export, mainly to FSU and the Middle East marlkets. The
members/owners of the small-scale drying line cooperative would save themselves the cost of procuring
drying services for their own fruits (they would have to only cover the operating expenses), and earn drying
fee incomes from external clients (about US$55 per ton of raw materials). A modelfor a US$25,500
- 73 -



drying line with 20 members and 20 external client would produce a FIRR of 25% and annual potential
revenue corresponding to its full capacity of US$15,840 for 288 tons offresh fruit.
Irrigation System
Irrigation would have a high pay off, particularly for high value products such as fruit and vegetables. The
members/owners of the irrigation equipment cooperative would invest in on-farm irrigation and have
assured access to water, save the cost of irrigation fees on their own land, and also collect water user fees
from other farmers (US$250 for 3,000 cubic meters per ha). In this model, the water fee is established at
MDL70 (or US$0.05 per m3). Irrigation for potato cultivation is highly profitable with FIRR as high as
50%. Another modelfor a US$7,800 investment into an irrigation system with 10 members and 10
external clients utilizing a multi-crop cropping pattern shows a FIRR of about 27% and annual potential
revenue corresponding to its full capacity of US$4,200 for 16.8 hectares.
Harvester Combine
Harvester combines require huge investments that individual private farmers cannot afford on their own. In
the investment model, a group of farmers form a business cooperative and buy a combine harvester. The
members of the cooperative would serve their own land and also provide machinery services to other
farmers for a fee of $35 per ha. At full capacity, such a harvester could service about 300 ha of grain, 200
ha of maize and 100 hectares of sunflower farms for about 50 farmers in a village. A US$60,000
investment into a combine owned by 20 members and serving 30 external clients results in FIRR of 24%
and annual potential revenue corresponding to its full capacity of US$21, 000 for 600 hectares.
Tractor with Implements
Tractors with implements are often too expensive for small-scale, private farmers. In the investment
model, a group of farmers form a business cooperative and buy a tractor with a set of implements for
fieldwork. Based on cost savings of tractor service and fee income of US$32 per hectare, a US$20,000
investment for a tractor by 20 members and serving 40 external clients results in FIRR of 26% and an
annual revenue at full capacity of US$12,800 for the group.
Detailed crop budgets, farm model analyses, cash flows, investment and operating expenditure
analysis, and debt servicing capacity analyses are in the project files.
- 74 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOLDOVA: RUFAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
The overall sustainability of the Prcject will depend on the sustainability of each of the implementing
agencies involved in the project. This annex summarizes the current financial status of the key
implementing agencies involved in the Project.
Rural Advisory Services Compornent - Service Providers (SPs)
The Advisory Component would be implemented through competitively selected service providers (SPs).
Existing organizations, such as legal dispute resolution centers, agricultural extension service providers and
business consulting organizations would enter into a contract under the project. The SPs would not only
provide advisory services but would also form and coach a team of local consultants and monitor the
impact of contracted work. The roles of SPs include:
(a)    serving as the physical netwvork node: offices where information is systematically organized in the
form of written material and databases;
(b)    serving as the contact-poini: for farmers and investors in agriculture and processing and for
receiving/purchasing specialist information about farming in the region; and
(c)    acting as the contact point :For local consultants for administration of contracts, for coaching
(organization of training courses and common activities) and for monitoring the volume and impact
of contracts.
Budget of a typical service provider (SP) is enclosed below, for year 2002: for 11 month contract, 10 local
consultants and 2 consultants in SP center.
Buclget Items                                 Value in US$
1. Fees for local consultants (routine services)                            6,160
(10 consultants x 11 months x 112 hours/month x $0.5/hour)
2. Fees for regional consultants (routine services)                        2,816
(2 consultants x 11 months x 160 hours/month x $0.8/hour)
3. Fees for outside consultants (30 man-days x $10/man/day)                 300
Subtota          9,276
4. Transportation costs:
Local consultants (10 consultants x 2 visits/month/consultant x 11 months x  440
$2.0)
Regional consultants (10 localities x I visit/month x 11 months x $10)    1100
Outside consultants (30 trips x $10 per trip)                             300
Subtota          1,840
5. Incremental Operating Costs
Office rental (regional consultants) (11 months x $20)                    220
Electricity (regional consultants) (11 months x $10)                      110
Communication (inclusive local cDnsultants) (11 months x $55)             605
Consumables (inclusive local con:sultants) (11 months x $35)              385
Subtota          1,320
TOTAL of Contract (USD)                                                 12,436
- 75 -



Equipment
The following equipment will be provided in gratuitous use to the Service Providers:
1 PC, 1 laser printer, 1 Fax/phone, 1 flipchart, Internet/e-mail software
Rural Business Development Component - Development Agencies
ACA is a non-governmental organization (NGO), which provides support for the creation of farmer
organizations and other types of rural businesses. ACA is one of the currently employed three Development
Agencies (DAs) under the Rural Business Development Component of the project. Specifically, to support
the newly established businesses, ACA will provide, among other, the following services: (a) dissemination
of materials on potential development opportunities; (b) diagnostic studies and identification of potential
business opportunities; (c) assistance in preparation of sustainable/ bankable business plans; (d) assistance
in legal registration; (e) assistance to new rural businesses in developing their operational activities.
Budget of one of the DAs with three development teans is provided below. This DA was established in the
beginning of 2001 and therefore lacks financial history. However, the DA has developed its business plan
for the period of the next one-two years, and the budget is enclosed below. Financial sustainability of this
institution is a key issue, therefore, while in the beginning a significant portion of financing for the
institution would come from donor organizations and the Government, a gradual cost recovery plan is being
developed.
Detailed Costs for 3 Development Teams for 9 months (April - December, 2002) (thousands, US
dollars)
Unit      Quantity  Unit Cost     TOTAL
1. Investment costs
Computer Equipment /a                       Laptop         2        1.55         3.10
Mobil Phone                              Mobile Phone      I        0.08         0.08
Subtotal                                            3.18
2. Staff Remuneration
a. Main offices of DA
Project Manager                          Person-month      9        0.9          8.10
Office Assistant / Accountant            Person-month      9        0.3          2.70
b. Mobile Team / Development Officers
Team Leader                              Person-month     27        0.4         10.80
Development officer                      Person-month     27        0.3          8.10
Subtotal                                           29.70
3. Travel Allowance /b                            Month         63       0.02          1.26
4. Administrative Expenses
Office Rent & Utilities                     Month          9        0.2          1.80
Regular Calls from Main Offices             Month          9       0.10          0.90
Calls From Mobile Phones                  Mobile/year      3       0.18          0.54
O&M on Equipment                           lump sum                              0.30
Transport expenses /c                       Team           3       2.16          6.48
Consumables                                lump sum                              1.00
Subtotal                                           11.02
TOTAL COSTS - DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                                                       45.16
- 76 -



a\ procured by CAPMU
b\ All staff members (excluding office assistant / accountant) are traveling 10 days / month with a 2 USD per diem or 20 USD
per month
c\ 2000 km/months x 9 months x 0,12 USD.km = 2,16.
Rural Finance Corporation (RFC)
In 1997, under the First Rural Finance Project supported by IDA, RFC was created as a non-bank financial
intermediary APEX institution for lending to Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs). RFC currently is
one of the largest lenders to the agricultural sector (over 40% of total lending for agricultural production)
as well as to SCAs (70% of the total cumulative lending to the SCA system in 2000 and over 60% of the
total lending in 2001). RFC is operat:ing according to Prudential Rules which set forth the maximum loan
amnount per member and total exposure to the whole group. The RFC's shareholders are SCAs themselves,
which are required to put 6% of the loan amount into the RFC capital. Annex 20 provides more detailed
information on the RFC and the SCA system.
Financial Status of the RFC. The balance sheet of end-1998 amounted to MDL 3,571,120, with a loan
portfolio of MDL 2,288,445, liabilities to the MOF of MDL 2,702,011, and an equity of MDL 402,893.
But the end- 1998 balance sheet cannot be compared to those of end- 1999 and end-2000, as some positions
in the 1998 balance sheet have been ie-classified. Enclosed is the comparative audited balance sheet of
RFC for 1999, 2000, and 2001 in MD)L.
RFC- AUDITED BALANCE SHEET                  1999         2000          2001
ASSETS
Current assets, of which                  13,487,500    35,730,214    60,628,286
Net short-term loans to SCAs               8,770,497    12,830,338    20,416368
Long-term assets, of which                  417,290       885,683      983,149
Net long term loans to SCAs                 115,075       541,489      613,819
Total assets                              13,904,790    36,618,897    61,611435
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                          666          60,334       226,965
Long-term liabilities, of which           11,893,326    31,600,154    53,831,146
Liabilities to the MOF                    11,880,066    31,594,536    53,277,322
Shareholders' equity                       2,010,798     4,958,409    7,553,324
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity  13,904,790  36,618,897   61,611,435
Source: Audit reports 1999 and 2000, and the draft audit report 2001.
Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs)
Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) have a dual purpose: mobilization of savings and provision of
loans to their members. The SCAs operate on the basis of Prudential Regulations, which set forth all
operational modalities, including the rnaximum exposure per member, repayment period of the loan, etc.
Currently there exist 359 active SCAs, with 38,000 members, of whom 23,000 are active borrowers. Since
inception, the total lending to members continues to increase while maintaining repayment rates very high.
The savings mobilization has started picking up during 2001: if at the beginning of 2001 the savings were
- 77 -



very small, aggregating to only about MDL 170,000 (US$ 13,000), by the beginning of 2002 the amount
of deposits in the SCA had increased almost four-fold, to MDL 612,000 (US$45,300). Measures are being
built into the proposed project to promote further mobilization of savings.
Below is a balance sheet of a typical SCA. The chart illustrates the trends of development of the two most
important balance sheet positions - loan portfolio and shareholders' equity. This sample SCA has 243
members.
GROWTH OF LOAN PORTFOLIO AND EQUITY OF STEPSOCI SCA
1,200,000
1,000,000
-    Loan portfolio
600,000-
Ru-U                                                                      Equity
o   400 000
200,000
1999              2000               2001
March of each year
Comparative balance sheets for the three years of operation of the sample SCA are summarized below.
The development is shown every year in March when the lending peaks due to the seasonal characteristics
of this lending operation (80% of loans are extended for short-term agriculture-related needs).
SCA Step-Soci "Rural Credit"         30-Mar-99    30-Mar-00              30-Mar-01
change                  change
Total Fixed Assets                     641         15,668                  15,260
Loan portfolio                       541,200      762,350                 1,042,305
Less Provisions                         0           -300                     0
Net Loans                            541,200      762,050      141%       1,042,305    137%
Total Current Assets                 542,277      801,720      148%       1,089,231    136%
Total Assets                         542,918      817,388      151%       1,104,491    135%
Total Paid Up Share Capital          55,410        99,807      180%       143,693    144%
Total Shareholder Equity              53,130      138,800      261%       212,039      153%
Total Long-term Liabilities             0            0                       0
Total Short Term Financial Debts     489,700      677,882                 891,333
Total Current Liabilites             489,788      678,588      139%       892,452      132%
Total Liabilities and Equity         542,918      817,388      151%      1,104,491     135%
- 78 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOLDOVA: RUFRAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Procurement
Sunmary of Procurement Procedures. Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A
and Al. Consulting services, goods and works financed the World Bank Group shall be procured in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines (Goods and works contracts will be procured in
accordance with the provisions of ihe "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999; contracts for consultants' services will be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the
Bank in January of 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January, 1999). During project
implementation, the procurement p-lan will be updated on an as-needed basis, basically during supervision
missions. All other procurement inFormation, including capability of the implementing agency (procurement
assessment report of the PIU is separately submitted) and the Bank's review process is presented in Table
B and below.
Participation of Nongovemmental Organizations (NGOs). Nongovernmental Organizations (N(JOs) can
compete in the selection process uider the provisions of Bank Guidelines, provided that they have
expressed their interest in doing so, and that their qualifications are satisfactory to both the Government
and the Bank. NGOs as eligible voluntary nonprofit organizations may be uniquely qualified to assist in
the preparation, management, and implementation of projects, essentially because of their involvement and
knowledge of local issues, community needs, and/or participatory approaches. For assignments that
emphasize participation and considerable local knowledge, the short list may comprise entirely NGOs. If
so, it is suggested that the QCBS procedure be followed, and that the evaluation criteria reflect the unique
qualifications of NGOs, such as voluntarism, nonprofit status, local knowledge, scale of operation, and
reputation. Selection of Consultants and their contracts will be based on the standard documents issued by
the Bank for the procurement of such services with the minimal necessary modifications as agreed by the
Bank.
Participation of Government Owncd Enterprises (GOEs) in goods. works and consultants' contracts funded
by the Credit/Grant . GOEs will not be eligible to participate in tenders for such contracts unless they meet
the Bank's eligibility criteria. They must be legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law in Moldova and cannot be a dependent agency of the Beneficiary or sub-Beneficiary of the project.
Interested GOEs must properly clarify their status before participating in any bid under this project. The
PIU has the obligation of exhaustively checking all the related information before clearing GOE's
participation with the Bank.
The Project Implementation Unit and its capacity to deal with procurement activities. The Consolidated
Agricultural Projects Managemenrt Unit (CAPMU) is the result of a merger, or consolidation, in 1999 of
the project implementation units in charge of prior agricultural projects (Agricultural I Project, Loan
40110-MD, and Rural Finance Project, IDA Credit 30310-MD), which have officially closed. For RISP,
the overall project management and coordination will take place through the CAPMU, which is currently in
charge of managing all Bank/IDA projects in the agriculture sector, including the preparation of RISP.
CAPMUJ operates under the Ministry of Finance and is controlled by a Steering Committee formed by
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and Processing Industry, the
Ministry of Economy, two NGOs, and other relevant agencies. This Committee, chaired by the Minister of
- 79 -



Agriculture, oversees CAPMU and coordinates its relations with the various ministries and other
stakeholders.
The implementing agency for the Agricultural I Loan ($18 million) was created in 1997, and hired the
services of an international expert to handle procurement activities (13 months). Two local staff were
trained by the firm, and one of them remains in CAPMU. Currently, the procurement capacity of CAPMU
is limited to one local procurement specialist remaining from the prior projects (he joined the PIU in
October of 1999). By mid 2001, his concrete experience in handling project procurement is as follows:
Procurement method   Packages/bidding     Bids opened/evaluated  Contracts
documents prepared                         managed
ICB                  No                    1                    12
LIB                  No                    No                   I
IS                   1                    3                     9
NS                   1                     1                    1
DC                   2                    2                     9
LCS                  2                    2                     2
A procurement audit was conducted in 2001 by ECA RPA's Office on the Agricultural I Project, and its
findings show that there were some inconsistencies and deviations by the PIU from procurement guidelines
in applying procurement procedures in some goods contracts as well as lack of procurement control from
the Bank.
This project includes a line of credit and microfinancing. Since most of the participating banks, NGOs,
leasing companies, micro enterprises, and sub-borrowers may not be familiar with World Bank
procurement procedures, it would be necessary to consider some work aimed at dissemination of
procurement guidance, including information on requirements and procedures applied in WB-funded
projects. It is expected that the Bank would also conduct a procurement workshop for the project staff and
sub borrowers and that in supervision missions the PAS will conduct consultations on procurement on an
as-needed basis.
Capacity Building. The current procurement expert is expected to provide on-the-job training to the staff
involved in procurement as per Bank Guidelines. The procurement expert was sent to training at the ILO
institute in Turin.
Procurement of Goods
The Borrower will use the Bank's standard bidding documents for procurement of goods, including Bank's
regional sample documents. Procurement of computers and other equipment will be carried out through the
authorized dealers of the main computer supplier.
Goods contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be procured through International Competitive
Bidding.
Goods contracts estimated to cost more that US$50,000 but less than US $100,000 will be procured
through International Shopping.
National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000
- 80 -



each, to be awarded on the basis of comparison of three written price quotations from eligible local
suppliers (aggregate sum: US$150,000). NS will basically cover office fiurniture, computers, office
equipment, minor supplies and vehicles.
Procurement of Consultants' Serices
Selection of Firms. Assignments estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent can be procured based
on shortlists comprising only local firms. No individual/firm that is debarred from bidding under World
Bank financed projects, and/or any firm associated with a debarred firm or any of its staff will be hired
under the Project.
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (DCBS) will be the preferred method for selection of firms in contracts
with estimated values above US$100,000.
Least Cost Selection Method (LCS) is expected to be applied to procurement of contracts for audit
services. Contracts with service providers to the subloans can be procured following selection based on
either LCS, if estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract.
Consultants Qualifications (CO) will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than $75,000 per contract.
Selection of Individuals. Individual consultants to provide a wide variety of technical assistance services
will be selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment, mostly by comparing at least 3 CVs
from potential eligible candidates. Some consultancy positions will be advertised locally in at least 3
newspaper of nation-wide circulation or internationally (UNDB on line), depending on their size and
relevance.
Training. workshops and study tour expenses. Training, workshops and study tours will be carried out
according to a training plan, which the PIU will revise annually and submit to the Bank for approval prior
to implementation.
Procurement Procedures under Credit Line
Procurement of goods, works, and services under the credit line components will be the responsibility of the
sub beneficiaries. The maximum loan size under the credit components will not exceed US$250,000. The
following procurement arrangements are proposed:
Commercial Practices: Goods and! works estimated to cost up to US$ 250,000, per Section 3.12 of the
Procurement Guidelines for goods/wvorks; and services estimated to cost up to US$250,000, per Section
3.12 under Consultants Guidelines rnay be procured at competitive prices in accordance with established
commercial practices of the respective Beneficiaries, provided that such practices involve obtaining
quotations from more than one supplier or contractor; and with due account being taken, in addition to
prices, of other relevant factors such, as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and
availability of maintenance and spare parts therefore. Sub borrowers shall use the World Bank's standard
and sample bidding documents, evaluation reports, contracts, etc. wherever possible, with the necessary
modifications agreed with the PIU.
In no case, will the goods and works under the Credit Line be procured by sub borrowers and the
participating agencies from a source or a business entity in which that sub borrower has a financial or
business interest. Sub borrowers and beneficiaries financing equipment through leasing companies will not
- 81 -



be eligible for loans from the participating banks for the same purpose.
Incremental Operating Costs: The operating costs for CAPMU covering staff salaries (excluding
Government employees), supplies, utilities, and equipment maintenance etc. would be disbursed on the
basis of annual budgets to be agreed with the World Bank.
Prior Review
The following World Bank prior review requirements would be applicable:
Goods: All ICB, if any; first two International Shopping, and first two National Shopping contracts.
Consulting Services:
Consulting Firms: All TORs; all QCBS, if any; draft RFPs, short lists, evaluation reports, and draft
contracts for consulting packages starting from $75,000 per contract.
Individual Consultants: All TORs; consultant's qualifications and experience and draft contracts for
consulting assignments starting US$25,000 per contract.
Subloans: First three subloans from each Participating Financial Institutions; any contract amounting
US$120,000 equivalent or above.
Post Review:
During the life of the Credit, independent procurement audits will be conducted for Part C I (Subloans) of
the Project. These activities will be financed out of the Credit Proceeds (Category 2) and are expected to
be conducted after the second year of implementation is completed, and if deemed necessary, repeated upon
completion of the Project.
Contracts not subject to Bank's prior review will be post reviewed by Bank's supervision missions on
sampling basis i.e. I out of every 5 contracts. The frequency of procurement supervision should be every
six months.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in US$'000 equivalent)
ICB       NCB             Other     N.B.F         TOTAL
1. Goods                             0          0         150        79          229
(0)       (0)        (125)                  (125)
2. Services                          0          0         1,782     3,190        4,972
(0)        (0)      (1,299)                (1,299)
3. Subloans'                         0          0        8,908      3,542        12,450
(0)        (0)      (7,200)                (7,200)
4. Incremental Operating Costs       0          0         413        13           425
(0)        (0)       (330)                   (330)
5. PPF Refinancing                   0          0         1,546       0          1,546
- 82 -



_   (0)       (0)    f (1,546)  1         1    (1,546)
TOTAL        0          0        11,253    $6,892      $19,690
(0)       (0)      ($10,500)              ($10,500)
- 83 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
,, *'- ; -, j 'r  i .  f      :Selectlon':Method .' ' -- -   -
Consultait Ser Icers'- >:  t        *f-'              -              ,,
-'Ewendftu;e.te gor :                                 CQ-    ' Sthr FB  N B.F. To al Cost
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30     0.35    0.00    0.70     1.35
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.24)  (0.26)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.50)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.07    2.55     3.62
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.80)  (0.00)   (0.80)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30     0.35    1.07    3.25     4.97
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.24)  (0.26)   (0.80)  (0.00)   (1.30)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value   Procurement     Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)      Method       Prior Review/Estimated
Total Value Subject to
US$ thousands                       Prior Review
US$ thousands
1. Goods                                   250           ICB                      1/100
100            Is                     2/150
.___ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ _ _   50  NS                 1/45
2. Services                                 250        QCBS                       1/100
100          LCS                      2/150
75           CQ                        1/75
25      Individual                    3/100
3. Subloans                                 250           CP                     10/500
4. Incremental Operating Expenses                                               All /150
5. PPF Refinancing                                                                 N/A
Total value of contracts subject to                                             $1,370
prior review:                                 .
-84 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project will be an APL credit, with the expected disbursement period four years starting CY2002 -
CY2005. The closing date of the first phase is December 31, 2005. Disbursement will follow normal IDA
procedures and will be made against eligible expenditures. Table C shows allocation of credit proceeds.
The financing percentages in Table C are net of any taxes as the activities under the project are tax-exempt.
The Standard Disbursement Percentage (SDP) for technical assistance in Moldova is 75%.
Retroactivefinancing: disbursements from the credit line will only be made for expenditures that have not
been made earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which CAPMU shall have received the withdrawal
application.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
.~E p   Wen it   ra re "                     i    n'USS    ,      Fi nci    Percentage
Goods                                        125                100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant Services and Training           1,299                100 of foreign expenses; 75%
of local expenses
Subloans                                   7,200                 100% of eligible sub-loans
disbursed by the PFIs on or
before December 31, 2003 and
80% thereafter
Incremental Operating Costs                 330                90% until December .31, 2003;
80% until December 31, 2004;
and 70% thereafter
PPF Refinancing                             1,546                 Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement
TOTAL                                      $10,500
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for: (a) goods contracts with estimated costs less than
US$50,000 each; (b) consultants contracts with firms less than US$75,000 and individuals up to
US$25,000; (c) all sub-loan under Part C - Credit Line of the project; and (d) incremental operating costs
and training. For all contracts financed under the credit line, full documentation in support of the SOE will
be retained in the CAPMU for at leasi two years after the closing date. This information will be available
for review by IDA missions during project supervision and by the project's auditors. Disbursements for
- 85 -



expenditures above SOE thresholds will be made against presentation of full documentation relating to
those expenditures. There is no plan to move to periodic disbursements. The minimum application size for
payments directly from the credit account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of the
special account authorization. SOEs will be audited in conjunction with the annual audit of the project (see
description of the project's financial management arrangements below).
Special account:
To facilitate the project implementation, CAPMU will establish a Special Account before credit
effectiveness and maintain it until project completion. The Special Account will be opened in a bank
acceptable to IDA, and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will be drawn
upon to meet payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. Disbursement of
sub-loans to final beneficiaries will be based on the terms of payment in the sub-loan agreements and
according to the actual expenditures incurred.
The selected bank should have: (a) significant foreign correspondence network covering all currencies; (b)
reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and
other international transactions; (c) capacity to perform a wide range of banking services at local branches,
including cash payments, transfers to other domestic and regional banks, issuance of debit notes,
application of conversion rates from foreign currencies; (d) the capacity to maintain adequate accounts for
the Special Account as required by IDA and provide monthly statements to the CAPMU; (e) willingness to
issue a Comfort Letter to ensure that amount deposited in the Special Account will not be set off or
otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to a commercial bank by the Borrower; and (f)
willingness to charge competitive rates for their services and provide reasonable interest income to the
balances held.
The Special Account will be audited in conjunction with the annual audit of the project (see description of
the project's financial management arrangements below).
The total authorized allocation will be limited to US$1.0 million. The initial deposit to the SA will be
limited to 50% of the authorized allocation until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association (Bank) shall be
equal to or exceed SDR 2.0 million. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three
months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project accounts will be operated for discrete activities and funded from the Special Account based on
disbursement applications signed by the authorized officials.
Financial management:
Overall responsibility for financial management of the project will rest with CAPMU. The Bank conducted
a financial management assessment of CAPMU and concluded that its financial management arrangements
are acceptable to the Bank.
Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision and, subject to the foregoing, the indicative formats of these are included in the CAPMU
accounting manual. CAPMU will produce a full set of FMRs quarterly throughout the life of the project.
FMRs will not be used for disbursement purposes but rather Bank-financing will be disbursed under the
Bank's established procedures, including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
CAPMU has instituted a set of appropriate accounting procedures and intemal controls including
authorization and segregation of duties. CAPMU's accounting books and records are maintained on a cash
- 86 -



basis and project financial statements are presented in United States dollars. CAPMU's information
systems comprises two accounting software: (a) the project accounting software, InterProject, which is
used for presenting project financial reports, including SOEs, denominated in United States dollars to the
Bank; and (b) the accounting software, 1C Bookkeeping System, which is used for presenting project
financial reports denominated in local currency to the Moldovan authorities. CAPMU has demonstrated in
its previous projects that it is able to report on project expenditures with this system, however, CAPMU
has already employed local consultants to upgrade the IC Bookkeeping System accounting software to
enable it additionally to satisfy the Bank's reporting requirements thereby obviating the need to maintain
two separate accounting information systems.
No significant issues have arisen in the audits of previous Bank-financed projects implemented by
CAPMU. CAPMU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are satisfactory to the Bank
and it has thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for the RISP, to include the
RISP's project financial statements, ,SOEs and Special Account. The terns of reference that was used for
audit of CAPMU-implemented projects for CY2001 will be extended to include RISP from CY2002. The
audit of the project will be conductecl by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, and procured by CAPMU through the Least-Cost Selection procurement
process. The annual audited project Financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months of
the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit awarded during
the first year of project implementation and thereafter extended from year-to-year with the same auditor,
subject to satisfactory performance. rhe cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of September 26, 1995 was prepared at a
time of considerable transition and therefore, in view of the time that has since elapsed, the CFAA is now
considered to be out-of-date. However, the I-PRSP of November 15, 2000 confirms that improvement is
required in the management of public expenditures, including the budget process and budget execution, as
well as cash and debt management. Thus CAPMU has developed policies and procedures that operate in
addition to those of the current public expenditure management framework to minimize project financial
management risks. In 2000, the Banl; conducted a Country Portfolio Financial Management Review
(CPFMR) of all projects under implementation in Moldova and identified some common financial
management issues; the Bank confirnied that all such issues have been appropriately addressed in the
design of RISP's financial management arangements.
The banking sector in Moldova is relatively weak. However, CAPMU has opened all of its projects'
Special Accounts in a single commernial bank acceptable to the Bank whose financial status and slatements
are reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Bank. As these arrangements have been satisfactory, they will
remain in place during RISP project implementation.
During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management arrangements in
two main ways: (a) review the project's quarterly financial management reports as well as the project's
annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (b) during the Bank's supervision
missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of
a sample of SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum
requirements. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist in the
supervision process.
- 87 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
ProjectSchedule'                                    a ' . PInn-d  .> ,  x  -ctuan. rs, ,2';
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      21                           21
First Bank mission (identification)             09/15/2000                   09/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     03/27/2002                   03/27/2002
Negotiations                                    04/29/2002                   04/29/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2002                   09/30/2002
Prepared by:
Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit
Agricultural Steering Committee
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality   -
Hoonae Kim                         Task Team Leader
Jacob Intrator                     Rural Banking
Sandra Broka                       Rural Finance
Frauke Jungbluth                   Agricultural Economics
Steve Bartoletti                   Commercial Banking
Hermine De Soto                    Social Science
Ranjan Ganguli                     Financial Management
Jose Martinez                      Procurement
Samir Suleymanov                   Operational Analysis
John Ambrose                       Environment
Anatol Gobjila                     Operations Officer
Benoist Veillerette                Agricultural Economics
Christer Cronberg                 Agro-industry/marketing
Jacob Mann                         Operational Support
Laura Tuck                         Quality Assurance
Amnon Golan                        Quality Enhancement Review (QER)
Zoe Kolovou                        Legal Counseling
John Ogallo                        Disbursement Officer
- 88 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Operational Manual by Component
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy (1999) and Progress Report (2002)
Moldova Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (ESW, 2001)
Poverty Assessment (1999)
Agricultural Support Services- Rapid Gap Assessment Report (2000)
Rural Investment and Services Project - Baseline Study (January 2001)
Social Assessment (2001)
Banking Sector Assessment (1999)
Environmental Assessment (2001 arntd updated 2002)
Financial Management Assessment (2001 and updated 2002)
Procurement Assessment (2001 and updated 2002)
Potential PFI / Commercial Bank Survey Questionnaire
Potential PFI Monitoring Tables(2001 and updated 2002)
Economic and Financial Analysis of Random Samples and detailed cost estimates(2001)
GEF project documents for Agricultural Pollution Control and Medium Size Biodiversity Projects (2002)
Assessment of Savings and Credit Associations (SCA) Development (2002)
C. Other
Collective Farm Debt Resolution: Moldova Case Study - The National Land Program (June 12, 2000)
Impediments to Development of Private Farming and Small Rural Business in the Republic of Moldova
(I 999)
Republic of Moldova: Recent Economic Developments (September 1999)
Assessment of the Negative Impact of the 2000 Drought in the Republic of Moldova (July 20, 2000)
Moldova: Agricultural Sector Analysis 1998-1999 (2000)
Horticulture Marketing in Moldova: The Current Situation, Potential Opportunities and Recommendations
(November 1997)
Removing Legal and Regulatory Impediments to the Development of Private Agriculture and Agroindustry
in Moldova: The Need for Vision and Incentives (November 1999)
Land Reform and Farm Restructuring in Moldova: Progress and Prospects (August 1998)
Capacity Assessment of Potential Service Providers (2001)
Farm Organization Development Report- DFID (2001)
*Including electronic files
- 89 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
02-Apr-2002
Difflerence between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P051174        2001 HEALTH INVST FUND                                  0.00     10.00                            0.00      9.04       3.36      0 00
P051173        1999 SOCIAL PROTECTION                                  0.00     11.10                            0.00      8 29       307       0 00
P044840        1999 SOCIAL INV FUND                                    0.00     15.00                            0.00      4.95      -150       000
P035771        1998 FIRST CADASTRE                                    0e00      15.90                            0.00      7 23       4 09       0 00
P035811        1997 PSD II                                            0.00       9.00                            0.00      3.30       3 82      0 00
P008558        1997 GENERAL EDUCATION                                 1680       0.00                            5.00      8.93       8.15      4 10
P008561        1996 PRIV SECT DEVT I                                  35.00      0 00                            0.00      0.08       2.27      2.27
Total:       51.80      61.00                           5 00       41.83      23 25      6.36
- 90 -



MOLDOVA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997               INCON                          3.70    2.00    0.00    0.00    3.70    2.00     0.00    0.00
2000                MEC Moldova                   0.00    0.10    0.90    0.00     0.00    (.10    0.70    0.00
2000                Moldindconbank                1.50    0.00    1.50    0.00     1.50    (.00    1.50    0.00
2001                UF Moldova                   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    (.00    0.00    0.00
2001                Victoriabank                  4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    (1.00    0.00    0.00
VoxTel                        0.00    0.00     0.18    0.00    0.00    (.00     0.18    0.00
1999/00/01
Total Portfolio:        34.20    2.10    2.58     0.00    7.40    2.10     2.38    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Fincombank                       1.50      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Comlmitment:       1.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
-91 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central     Low-
Moldova       Asia   Income      Development diamond
2000
Population. mid-year (mllions)                        4.3       475     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    400     2,010       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       1 4      956     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        -0.3       01       1.9
Labor force (%)                                                 0.6       2.4      GNI                            Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita                       ' .  enrollment
Poverty (% of poDulation below national poverty line)  55
Urban population (% of total population)               46        67        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       66        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               18        21        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             ..         ..       ..           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   56        90        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    2         3        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  92       100        96                  Moldova
Male                                                 90       101       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               93        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             .     10.6        1.2       1.3
Gross domestic investmenUGOP                   .     25.2       22.8      22.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..     48.8       52.3     49.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      .    22.8        8 8      -5.0
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..       ..       19.0      12.8
Current account balancelGDP                                     -3 8      -9.4     Domestic                   Inetmn
Interest payments/GDP                           .        .       4 3       3.5     s                           Investment
Total debUGDP                                  ..      ..       89 9      99.9     savings
Total debt servicelexports                     .        ..      32.4      17.8
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..       80.7      86.7
Present value of debUexports                  ..        .      132.3     145.4
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(averaqe annual qrowth)
GDP                                 2.8     -9.7     -3.4        1.9       3.1                  Moldova
GDP per capita                       1 9     -9.5    -3 3        2.2       3.4                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..      1.0    -19.5        7 9      7.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         20
Aqriculture                                                     27.9      28.0                       _
Industry                                       .      8.0       19.0      20.0    -r    7   5
Manufacturinq                                 .       ..      12 0      12.6    -20
-40
Services                                       .      4 5       53.1      52.0
Private consumption                                     ..      72.3      85.0    -e0
General government consumption                                  18.9      20,0              -oG             2-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..     51.2       66.3     77 0
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..     -13.7      -6 9       06     40
Industry                                       .     -15.7     -17.5       5.4    20
Manufacturing                                .         .         ..              0 
Services                                      ..      2.4       17 2      -18     -20     9    96v  97   '.a          m
Private consumption                           ..      6.7      -16.8     22.1    -40
General government consumption                 .      -3.9     -28.1      4.5    -60
Gross domestic investment                      .     -15.7     -14.7     -0.7             -    Exports     2   tImports
Imoorts of goods and services                  .      4.6     -36 9      31.6
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If dala are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 92 -



Aloldova
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1980    1990       1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       400
Consumer prices                               ..       ..      39.3      31.3    3D5
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..      ..      40.1     27.0     20
Government finance                                                               too
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o -
Current revenue                                ..      ..      32.0     32.6             95    96    97    99    99   00
Current budget balance                                          -2.6    -0.7                  GDP deflator 7CP
Overall surplus/deficit                                        -6.0      -2.9
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..      ..       461      477     1.500
Live animals and animal products             ..      ..        29       23
Vegetable products                           ..       ..       68        66     1
Manufactures                                 ..      ..        82       96
Total Imports (cif)                           ..       ..       597      793
Food                                         ..                          23 8  2
Fuel and enerqy                                               151       192
Capital goods                                ..       ..       70        75       o
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        71       67           94   95   96   97   98   9    0o
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        85       91                *Exports      KImpors
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       ..        83       74
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1980     1990      199      2000      Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                                   614      640      o
Imports of goods and services                  .        .       778      990
Resource balance                                               -164     -350     s5
Net income                                              .        34       72     -10
Net current transfers                                            86      157
Current account balance                        .                -45     -121
-20-
Financing items (net)                          .        .        83      172
Changes In net reserves                       ..        ...      38      -51     -2s -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..       181      206
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)               ..       ..      10.5      12.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..       ..     1,055     1,284
lBRD                                         .        ..      199      191                     G,9      A: 191
IDA                                                            77      103
Total debt service                            ..       ..       232      137
IBRD                                                           15       16         F:313@:                    B .   103
IDA                                          .        ..        0        11
Composition of net resource flows                                                          '-          '
Offidal grants                              ..       ..        ..        ..                                    c 154
Official creditors                          ..       ..        87       25                           1   V
Private creditors                           ..       ..         3       81
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..        34      128
Portfolio equity                            ..E:343                                                      D: 121
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       ..        66       10      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..       ..        74       36      B - IDA  D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       ..         4        5      C -IMF                     G - Short-tem
Netflows                                     ..      ,.        70       31
Interest payments                           ..       .,        11       11
Net transfers                               ..       ..        59       19
Development Economics                                                                                              9/18/01
- 93 -



Additional Annex 11: Sector at a Glance
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
MOLDOVA: AGRICULTURE AT A GLANCE
Total Population             4.4 mul    Food and agriculture in GDP  48%        Agricultural output in 2001 as  51%
(2001)                                  percentage of 1989-1990 level
Rural Population              47 %
Food and agriculture in active labor 43%  Livestock production in 2000 as
Total Area                3.4 mil ha   (2000)                                   percentage of 1989-1990 level  30%
Agriculture area:         2.3 mil ha    Food and agriculture                    Share of livestock in agnculture  32%
in exports (2001)            61%        (1995)
Arable land                   81%       in imports (2001)            15%
Agricultural area in pnvate use  89%
Orchards and vineyards         9%       Traditionally net exporter of: wine,    (2000)
processed and unprocessed fnuits
Irrigated                      10%      and vegetables, and pork.               Share of private sector in total  75%
agricultural output (200 1)
Forested                       12%
Indicator                   1996             1997              1998                1999            2000
Agricultural employment                   523,000          474,000            411,000              287,000     280,000
Labor productivity in agriculture
(1990=100%)                                   53               62                  53                  48          44
Agriculture value added per worker
(constant 1995 US$)                      1,386,330        1,375,920          1,321,790           1,132,490
Agriculture, value added (% of
GDP)                                        31.40            30.21              30.45                25.12
Agnculture, value added (annual %
growth)                                    -11.65            -4.02               -7.21              -17.18
Agriculture, value added (constant
1995 US$)                             799,911,600      767,763,300        712,442,300          590,025,100
Agnculture, value added (current
US$)                                  465,891,300      501,125,600        437,728,100          259,328,600
Fertilizer consumption (metric tons)
13,500           10,100              6.900                           5,000
Food exports (million, SUS)           593,000,000      641,400,000         466,600,000          307,700,00
Food exports (% of merchandise
exports)                                    74.00            73.40               73.8                 65.3
Land area (hectares)                    3,400,000        3,400,000           3,400,000           3,400,000   3,400,000
Agricultural land (hectares)            2,555,000        2,556,000           2,556,000           2,556,600   2,300,000
Land productivity (1990=100%)                                                                                     54.0
Livestock production index (1989-91
I i00%)                                     45.60            42.00              37.40                36.60      34.80
-94 -



Additional Annex 12: Status of Land Reform
MOLDOVA. RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
LAND REFORM IN MOLDOVA
Background
In recent years, ownership of agricultural land in Moldova has undergone major changes and although the
process of land privatization and farm restructuring has not always been straightforward, presently, over
95 percent of agricultural land is being farmed in some form of privately owned and de-collectivized
enterprise.
Initially, political support for the process was moderate and characterized by a continued struggle between
conservative and pro-reform forces in the society. After a fairly bold start in 1992, when the legal base for
land privatization and farm restructuring was established (Land Code - 1991, Peasant Farm Law - 1992),
the process came to a virtual standstill in November 1994 after the Parliament amended land legislation and
introduced a set of anti-market and arti-reform provisions in the Land Code. In January 1996, some of
these provisions were examined by the Constitutional Court, declared unconstitutional and subsequently
annulled. However, it was not until 1997, when the Moldovan authorities allowed the initiation of a
number of land privatization and farm restructuring pilots and cleared most administrative barriers, that the
pace of land reform accelerated.
The Reform Program
The initial pilot efforts were supported by TACIS and USAID. TACIS's effort was limited to 10 farms in
the Ohrhei region and USAID started with one farm in the Nsiporeni region. These pilot projects revealed
a number of obstacles to be overcome before a national land privatization and farm reform process could
proceed. Primarily, the high level of ifarm indebtedness posed a problem for farm asset disposal, and the
continuation of the former farm structures as legal entities raised a number of problems with respect to
accounting and taxation for breakaway private farms. Approaches to resolving these problems were
worked out in a second round of pilot privatizations undertaken on 72 farms with support from USAID,
commencing in 1997.
These problems were directly addressed by the ensuing National Land Program (NLP), which was formally
launched by the Government in 1998. The NLP was largely financed by USAID and implemented by the
Center for Private Business and Reform and the East-West Management Institute, affiliated to the Soros
Foundation.
Conceptually, the NLP was conductecl not according to principles of restitution to former owners, but
rather following mass privatization/distribution mechanisms. The methodology adopted by the NLP was
based on a series of steps falling into three main stages:
* Stage 1: Initial steps in privatization and reorganization, which included disseminating
information on the process to the iarms, informing farm members of their legal rights, and conducting
of general meetings on each participating farm;
* Stage 2: Farm preparation, which included preparations for land privatization, the preparation for
- 95 -



a land tender, the allocation of parcels, and a parallel process with respect to farm property;
*   Stage 3: Land and property distribution, including the holding of land and property tenders, debt
restructuring and creation/registration of debt-free successor farm enterprises.
The outcome of the land reform process in Moldova has depended critically on the formal processes
adopted by the Government under the NLP. In particular the following features are worthy of note: (a)
adoption of a democratic approach at the farm level; (b) encouragement to form groups around
leaders/representatives; (c) farm asset protection; and (d) farm debt restructuring.
Source: Cadastral Land Balance as of I January 2000
One interesting point to note is that after land privatization, a significant proportion of those receiving land
shares had no desire to farm. This included a large group of the elderly and pensioners (37 percent of
recipients were over 50 years old). This created a situation where a substantial proportion of the new
landowners were seeking an alternative to directly operating their own farms. One such altemative was the
widespread adoption of the land lease market from the point of the initial land tenders by so-called
leaders/representatives, which has provided a basis for those who do not wish to farm to exit from farming.
The resulting farm structure is conveniently analyzed on the basis of the division between individually
farmed land and land farmed under formal leases by leaders.
The majority of such leaders have established private agricultural enterprises of a limited liability form. Of
6,299 initial leaders, 3,867 are now running registered, private agricultural enterprises. The new farm
managers - the "leaders" - for the most part, have a background in farming and in many cases were either
farm managers or brigade leaders prior to the land reform. With an average age of 47 years and a range in
age from 20 to 80, a total of 43 percent have technical educational backgrounds in agriculture, 38 percent
as agronomists and 5 percent as livestock specialists.
As of the year 2000 cropping season, 77 percent of the privatized and distributed land area was leased out
to leaders, mostly in the form of medium to large entities. Leasing arrangements for land are regulated by
law and are currently limited to leases not exceeding 10 years. The majority of leases, however, are
currently for shorter terms, typically I year (25 percent) or three years (53 percent).
Many individuals who wished to continue farming on their own and in smaller units have restructured as
registered peasant farms. Only 23 percent of the privatized land is farmed individually. The number of
- 96 -



registered peasant farms currently stands at around 84,000, with another few hundred thousand small
partnerships, individual or family based entities operating unregistered.
Land farmed individually is typically organized as small farn holdings: 66 percent of individual holdings
are under 5 hectares in size. The majority of such holdings are farmed directly by the individuals with
other famnily members, but 13 percent have pooled informally with neighbors, while a further 18 percent
have pooled with owners of property assets such as farm equipment.
Land holdings of private farms: 1998-2002
Jan. 1998     Jan.2001      Jan.2002
Number of unregistered peasant farms                 65835       201533        248350
Number of registered peasant farms                                              84000
Land in possession of peasant farms, ha            118378        364092       448500
Average size of peasant farm, ha                        1.8          1.8           1.8
Total land in individual use, ha                   224942        701855        805426
as % of total agricultural land                         9%          27%          31%
Average size of land plot, ha                           1.3          1.4           1.4
Source: Department of Statistics, quarierly reports on Organization of Peasant Farms
Land Tenure 1990-2000 (CIs % o agricultural land)
1990    1991     1992     1993    1994     1995     1996    1997     19939   1999     2000
State sector            32.3     26.7    25.2     31.2    30.1     16.7     17.3    17.7     17.5    17.1     17.5
State farms           27.0     23.4    20.4     14.6     12.8     0.1      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Reserve fund           0.0     0.0      0.1     12.7     13.3    13.4     13.6     14.0    14.1     14.1     15.0
Corporate forms         59.4     63.0    63.0     56.2     56.8    67.9     64.8    61.4     57.2    46.1     41.9
Kolhoses                  59.4    63.0     58.8    49.2     45.2    39.3     23.1     15.2    12.7     10.4     5.1
New corporate fomns       0.0     0.0      4.2      6.2     8.9     27.6     38.9     430     41.7     33.9     35.8
Farmers associations       -       -        -       0.8     2.7      1.0      2.8     3.2      2.8      1.8     1.0
Individual sector        8.3     10.3    11.7     12.6     13.2    15.3     18.0    20.9     25.3    36.8     45.3
Peasant farms         -        -       0.0      0.3     0.7      2.4      4.8     7.8     12.2     22.3     29.8
Household plots       8.3     10.3     11.7    12.3     12.5     12.9    13.2     13.1    13.3     14.5     15.5
Source: Cadastral Balance (end ofyea r data)
Challenges for Development of the Land Market
A properly functioning market for agricultural land is essential in order to realize the gains from the land
reform initiative. Private sector investment in longer-term development of land assets will be linked closely
to the regularized establishment of lai-,d ownership. While leasing arrangements may play an important role
as a transition device and while the lease market may continue to have a significant role in the longer term,
ownership is the preferred option for a majority of prospective farmers. A properly functioning land
market is equally important for those who want to exit from farming, providing them with the means of
- 97 -



transferring the value of their land allocation into more manageable forms of asset-holding.
The purchase and sale of agricultural land has been legally possible since the first land certificates were
issued in 1996. However, relatively few transactions for the sale and purchase of agricultural land have
occurred to date; in 1999, there were approximately 2,000 completed sale and purchase transactions.
There are, however, a number of reasons for the slow start-up of transactions in the rural land market.
Having recently acquired land titles, many households which may, in the longer term, choose to dispose of
their entitlement, are understandably cautious and have initially opted to lease out their land. Furthermore,
the demand for land is also constrained by low liquidity in the rural economy. Few have the means to
purchase land outright and financing for land acquisition is generally not available. Therefore, the limited
number of transactions is not necessarily a sign of market malfunction.
There are various constraints to land market transactions, whose economic impact is likely to increase as
the level of interest in transactions picks up in the coming years. The following constraints have been noted
in particular:
*      Transaction costs are high, especially for the purchase and sale of small plots, and include
surveying costs, land transfer tax, and the titling of land.
*      The land cadastre is still incomplete, and adequate transparency of rural land ownership has not yet
been achieved.
*      The number of steps necessary to complete a land transaction is too great, and the process could be
simplified by regulatory reforms.
*      The markets for brokerage functions are not yet developed, with an accompanying lack of adequate
information on supply and demand for transactions in specific localities.
*      Financing for land purchases remains largely unobtainable, resulting in the limiting of land
purchases to those with established capital. Financing for land market transactions is important to
facilitate the build-up of viable holdings by those who have skills to farm but who lack the capital to
purchase outright.
What can be done to speed up the development of the land market? A land market cannot develop unless
and until new landowners are able to exercise their rights to use their land independently from the leasing
associations, that is, to freely lease, sell, exchange and mortgage their land rights. Thus, strengthening
these rights is a key to facilitating land market development, which will result in the re-allocation of land to
more efficient uses. In the 1998/99 Gap survey, 61 percent of farmers interviewed felt that it was difficult
to buy or rent land. The main constraints mentioned were (a) the lack of financial resources to buy land, to
pay rent or to purchase inputs for the new piece of land; (b) difficulties in finding satisfactory agreements
between lessee and lesser; (c) lack of agricultural equipment; lack of information about the laws and
conditions; and (d) excessive tax requirements on the part of the lessee.
- 98 -



Additional Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Policy
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
GUVERNUL-.-- --                                IIPABHTEJTh,C-TBO
REPUBLICII MOLDO'A--                               PECEmJIEl1CT MfI)OBA
Nr. .:t. t2I-.I6  Z!;/cz-8           Chjsinxau     _May 10, 2002
Mr. Johannes Linn
Vice President
The World Bank
Europe and Central Asia Region_
Dear Mr. Linn:
Re: Meldovnra 's Agricxuiirul Development Strategy
L etter of Development Policy
1.     The Government of Moldoiva places high priority in developing post-privatization
support services in the agricultural sector, which has not reached its potential. The Government
believes that the Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) is an important opportunity to
bring real and concrete results to genecrate growth and reduce poverty in the agricultural sector.
The nmain development objective of the project is to foster growth in the sector by providing a
combination of information, institution development and fnance to new private farmers and rural
businesses. While pursing this objective, the project would help reduce poverty in the rural areas.
2.     The proposed RISP is an important opportunity to significantly improve Moldova's rural
economy, which is still struggling to adjust to the new economic reality. With the support of IDA,
the Government of Moldova seeks to further promote sustainable growth in the agricultural sector
with an aim to create a competitive, private initiative driven sector. To this end, the Government
reconfrrns its coymmitmnent to implemnent agricultural policies and support agricultural institutions
aimed at developing a vibrant marlket-oriented rural economy. We recognize that in order to
achieve these goals, concrete actions are necessary on our part to realign past policies, reevaluate
current priorities that are consistent with the overall fiscal conditions, and move forward boldly
with more market-based set of policy instrurments, institutional and legal support system. In
doing so, we are commnitted to pursue market-based, liberal agricultural policies where synergy
between the Government and the private sector can be enhanced for improved performance
fiscally, and economically. We will strictly adhere to the liberal agricultural policies during the
years ahead as stated in the Memorandurn of Understanding on the Agricultural Sector signed in
December 2001 with the World BaTIk.
3.     We place an emphasis on dcvelopment of land and credit markets in agriculture. We
recognize that farm restructuring is still unfinished and much more needs to be done to help
private farmers to become truly competitive in a market economy. We remain commnitted to
complete privatization of remaining small number of collective farms, and continue the
restructuring of existing farm and agro-enterprises. The Government believes that the irreversible
solid foundation for developing private agriculture is in place and the next steps would be: (a) to
Casa Guvernului.                                             ZoM rlrremc?sa.
MD-2033, Chisinau,      Tefefon:         Fax:                MD-2033, Icmany.
Republica Moldova       +373-2 -237795   +373-2-242696       PeCCy6a MOiuAOBa
- 99 -



strengthen land ownership rignts; (b) to promote development of land markets; ana (c) to provide
appropriate support services to post-privatization farmers.              _ _
4.     The Government assures that any new land code or amendments to the existing Land
Code will adhere to market-oriented principles that: (a) clearly define and protect land owners'
rights, including full autonomy in use/rease of their land; (b) provide for the enforcement of real
property rights through efficient institutions and effective courts; (c) facilitate and support
market-based secure transactions of property rights, backed by formal contract procedures, and
provide a court system that settles any disputes in a timely manner; (d) provide for property rights
information to be available -to all persons who request it; (e) limnit to highly exceptional --
circumstances, Government restrictions on transactions, consolidation or use of land; (f) facilitate
registration and transactions at low cost with minimum fees and taxes in the shortest possible
time after application; and (g) protect land as a resource on environmental and health grounds.
Efforts are already being made to reduce notary fees, simplifying documents requirements,
reducing multi-notary requirements, and also to make information about land prices more readily
available to potential buyers and sellers. In the event that the Govemment proceeds with
adoption of a new land code, the Government shall adhere to the above principles and seek the
World Bank's prior review and agreement.
5.     Although land privatization has largely been completed, we realize that post-privatized
farms, particularly large corporate fanns continue to perform poorly. The lack of contract
enforcement has both maintained inefficient farm managers through under-payment or non-
payment to lessees, and created uncertainty for good managers as lessees exit lease agreements
prior to the expiration of lease contracts, retarding on-farm investments. Many landowners have
leased out their land to previous collective farm directors and many have not fully realized their
rights as landowners, as indicated by the number of disputes registered at dispute resolution
centers. The Government will support the system of clear and enforceable ownership rights. It
will reduce the transaction costs for property sales, lease, inheritances, and provide confidence to
lenders for providing secured credit against real estate. It will also facilitate effective land
management, including proper valuation and property taxation.
6. .   In doing all the above, the Govermment will: (a) ensure that farming structure and sizes
will be ultimately determined by transparent, market based transactions, and not laws, or decrees
permitting governmental interventions on consolidation of land without the invitation,
participation and approval of all affected land owners; (b) ensure that land transactions can take
place freely without any undue administrative interference by Government, local authorities or
neighbors; (c) maintain the institutional arrangement for the Cadastre offices, which will have
trained manager, staff and institutional and technological capacity; (d) continue to seek donor
assistance in providing legal aid services to farmers that cover a broad spectrum of legal services
including an information campaign on land owners rights, and dispute resolution and problems
regarding land transactions; and (e) carry out an information campaign for farmners about different
scenarios of, and altematives to, land leasing and swapping, procedures associated with these
types of arrangements, types of contracts, standardized terms and conditions of lease contracts,
etc.
7.     The Govemment is committed to ensure that there is a sound, integrated legal framework
for cooperatives based on the principles that: (a) membership should be entirely voluntary
without any cohesion by government, local authority or neighbors; (b) land (through lease or
otherwise) should not be required to be subscribed as equity into a cooperative nor should be
required for membership; (c) employment should not be mandatory for membership in such
cooperatives; (d) members should be free to exit at any time, with their original, physically
- 100-



demarcated plot of land; and ('e) cooperatives should be subject to bankruptcy andiquation
similar to all-other-enterprises, without preference.
8.     We also recognize that post-privatization farmers need access to know-how, market
information, and financial resDurces to recapitalize themselves with necessary investment which
will create the basis-for-future growth. Learning from the past mistakes, we reiterate-our
commitment that provision of financial resources to private rural entrepreneurs will be made
through commercial financial institutions that have full autonomy in loan risk appraisal, loan
approval and rejection, as will be the case under the RISP. In parallel, we are strongly committed
to creating a business-environment that will foster development of private businesses in rural
areas. Specific measures will include provision of legal and institutional framework to create a
legal status for private individual farms, establish advisory services to provide information,
knowledge and create a sustainable rural financial system that will channel investment credits.
9.     We are committed to maintaining liberal agricultural policies for our agricultural
producers, traders and processDrs. The Govemment has already taken bold steps to further
liberalize the sector. State monopolies - Fertilitate and Cereale - have been largely privatized to
promote competition in the input and output markets for farmers. Prices have been fomially
liberalized, and the system of administrative price setting for producers at all levels of processing
and wholesaling was discontinued in 1992. Furthermore, indirect regulation through procurement
prices, controlled profit margins for processors and controlled marketing margins for traders have
also been removed. The past practices of introducing export bans (e.g. timber) or licensing
requirements (e.g. on walnuts) as well as minimum reference prices for exports has been
discontinued through official repeals. State involvement in the productive sector, such as
development of a vertical monopoly in the tobacco sector, has also been resisted. In sum, the
Government is committed to maintaining liberal pricing policies and minimnal interference in
trade or domestic marketing. WVe reiterate our firm position that the State will not become a
direct facilitator of trade for the private sector.
10.    The Government of Moldova, like other governments, plans to maintain for strategic
purposes a limited quantity of grain in a State Reserve for Grain. The reserve will be maintained
for emergency purposes only, not for market intervention. Procurement of the grain will only be
through public auction based onl cash payment. We will seek international experience to improve
the current system. In particular, we will better define the operating rules for the State Reserve
regarding purchasing and sales so as to limit and make more predictable their impact on market
prices; gradually reduce the overall size of the reserve stocks; shift some storage to private
facilities thereby improving quality of storage and encouraging private warehouse development;
and eliminate in-kind grain loans or debt write-off.
11.    With regard to the State Reserves, the Govermnent is committed to: (a) limit the state
reserves to the maximum level equivalent to one and half months worth of human grain
consumption; (b) maintain the level of grain held by the Reserve in line with the country's fiscal
situation; and (c) adhere to the following operating principles for the Reserves: (i) the reserves
would not be used to intentionally influence prices or quantities of grain on the market and would
be held only for "emergency" ute; (ii) released based on clear criteria such as domestic prices
being more than 15% above CIn prices; (iii) purchases and sales would be effected only in cash
through the commodity exchanges; and (iv) there would be no net change in monthly grain
balances (i.e., purchases and salrs would be offset and carried out only to ensure stock rotation);
and (v) public institution bodies will not engage in commodity trading of any kind, with the
exception of the State Reserve Fund.
12.    For the framework of the liberal agricultural regime, we will: (a) refrain from direct and
indirect price control on agricultural commodities, including any margin or profit control; (b)
- 101 -



-discontunue ait rererence pnces for agricultural commodities; (c) suspend all export b5ans, reduce
licensing-and-controls, and simplify procedures for import and export by-eliminating as much
papnerwk.asp4ssible; (d) monitor and disseminate to the public-the esld.s-of all government
procurement and their financial results; (e) rely on land tax as the main tax source for the sector;
(f) rationalize the Agricultural Support Fund (ASF) subsidy program, favoring post-privatization
restructuringof-agriculture through a transparent, non-distortionary and-wll-targeted system of
agricultural subsidies; (g) seek prior agreement of the World Bank on design, terms and
conditions of the ASF, and for the 2002 ASF, ensure that only private farmers will be eligible an(
have only one time, without repeated, access to the ASF; and (h) elimninate wine and tobacco
subsidies-as-af 2003, and ensure there are no other agricultural-subsidies-outside of ASP,
including off-budget programs, except as discussed and agreed with ]DA.
13.   As stated above, the Government recognizes that the sector recovery and reduction of
poverty woul4 require immediate and continuous adjustments on somtepfthe key policies as
discussed in this Letter. Through continuous dialogue with the World Bank and IMF, the
Government has already been engaged in constructive discussions on agricultural policy, legal
and regulatory issues. The project, in parallel to the Structural Adjustment Credit m (SAC E),
will support such policy dialogues. The Government is committed to reach agreements on
priority areas discussed in this letter with the understanding that each area will require follow-up
actions on our part.
Yours sincerely,
Vasile Tarlev,
Prime Minister
Dmitrii Todoroglo,
Deputy Prime Minister,
Minister of Agriculture and Food Industry
Zinaida Grecean gO
Minister of Finance
Minister of Finance
- 102-



MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
GournrncnL of the Republic of Moldova
Agricutural Tcam of the
Intemational Devlopment Association
The Oovemnaat of the Republic ofMoldova and the Agriculural Team from thc
Intermatonal D:cvoprncmi. AssociaiLicn (the IDA tean). in the conlcxt of the
Structural Adjustment Crt:dit IEl (SAC II), seek to fiurther promote susuaible
growth in tbc. agriculurl un etor. To this cnd, the Government rcoonfrtic its
commtment tO implement agricultral policies and support agriculturai mstitutions
Simed at developing a vibiant market-orienled rural ecomy. This commitm tm
should serve as a basis for IDA/Moldova collaboration in creating a effective post
priveimitIon Air the agricultutal sxcLor.
The Clovennent and the IIDA team carried out discussions on agriculural policy
isses during ibr, week of-ueLinbc 3-7, 2001. -lhis mnorandmn represenLs
u   sdi       r   .aed bctween the two pariCs during this week It is intendcid to
provide a fiamwovrk thxat %ai serve as a basis for negotiations oLC SAC 111 The
contents of this memnoandum are the position of the Agnculural Teatn and are
subject to   r   ion by senio maoagement of IDA.
The GTovenmimnt and thal I'DA team rccognb'e ini particular, the importance of the
TA=1 Code as a &amcnEal picv of legslation fiamiug Land rclations in the caounry.
3be Governzent has agreed to create and maintain a land code thbt adheres Eo
rrnakct-oriented principles, rumety that itt
(a) clrly defuns aurL protects tand ownzrs' rlghts,
(b) provides ur the crl folene  orreap Ipty rights twugh ccient
institutions and effctive courts;
(c) filils and suppztls secure ransactios oTproprty rights, bkecl by
foruml contr-Act prcedures, and provides a court systm that settles any
dispuws mi a timely nmnncr
(d) providos for property rights information to bc available to all persons vwho
ruqosst it; aL
(a) limits to exceptionml circumstances. Government rStrctions on trWnaCions;
(f)   Bitatos registation and transacLtons at low cost with minimum fces aind
taxes in the shortest possible time alter appEcation; and
) pratS hind as nt rsouru-e on euvironmetlL and hkeA h grounds.
in light of this the Goverimtnent has agreed to cease wcwk onx the currcTt. daRft X.and
Code. The Government will establisb a wuoridng grup that will work wilh IDA
statin inJ lamnary 2002 to decvelop amcndments to the 1991 LAd Code, or a aew
Land Cobd, filly based on the aovc-meotioned principes. Befme seoond tanche of
the SAC ll the new land code wi}l be passed. by Par}a_nt.
-he 0overnnmtent and the IDA teztm agreed tbcat the Law on Debt Restuctuming will be
mnded for second re   g to clify that onb fi    that have gonthmitghthe
Natonal Land Progrm  oxr filly adhere to the principle ofthe Natonal Land
Pigrain (i.e, all land and property have been distribute4 in kind, to individual land
- 103-



MEMORANDUM OF UTNDRSTANDING
Dmcmber 10. 2001
owners, individual plots are tltled and original fwm is legally liquidated), will be
ligble to bavu their debt rmsructurcd or wriULen o1X
The Govenment reconfirwed its commitment to maintain the administratian of the
cadastre system in aordance with Lhe Ntiomni CAdasrc Pro4jt.
The Govrernment peovided IDA with a dtaft of the proposed Law on Production
Cooperatives. The IDA tewr has requested the oppornity to comwm and reserves
the right to include additional SAC I measures in this area. The IDA team asd the
Government did, however, agre thaL the tbUowing prinaiples should be respected on
dtis subject;
a) membership should be entiely voluntary;
b) land should not be subscn-bed as equity into Production Coopetatves;
c) a land xointribudvn (through lease or otherwie) sbould not be a requirement of
membcnihip;
d) employrment sbould not be nandatory Pbr mewAbrhip in such cooperatives;
a) menbers should be free to cxnt at any lime, wiih thirs original physicafly
dernurated plot of land.; nd
f) ptoduction oooperatics should bc subjoct to bankruptcy and liquidatian
simiar to al otlir cnterpris, w;tout prc.rcnm.
The Governnent and the IDA team adreed that Peasnt Fans that have bocome
'large' should be tr Azlfmbacd ito anot.= lcgil  u.cnL 'Tbu Geoveruunt curendy
dfins -too Jarge" as having more thau SOK of labor hbrd-rn. The Qeverunnea
Ag   d to oonsider other benchmarks, such astle gros value of production or the
miunber of hectaxss which the Leam rwcommends as more accuratc indscLat  of siz.
T1e Goverment and the IDA team agreed that, in addition to the current alItrnatlve
legal forsms available (e.g., LTD, JSC. etc.). farms should be given die option of a
aiple, new legal faxn the Private I-arm. which would have as ils only requiremenr to
keep accounts wnd pay taxes. Te ClovernmenT agreed to submit draft proposals to
D.A by Board and fully ceate this legal option by second tmachc.
With regard to agriukumrl policies for individual subsectors, the Governmcnt agreed
to adhlre to the fblowmg principles:
a) no aminmum prices or tixed prices of any kind
b) no minixmum delivery requkemets
c) no designaed buycras;
d) no export bans or reference prices;
e) no liceosing requirements fir import or export;
1) no duterminatLo or land Lu be plated unml partisular crops or pnrouction
levcls to be achieved; and
g) no goverrmcnt institutions assigmod to adhnistce the production or processing
of any crop.
To tdis end, attr ssgpng this Agreemuen, the C;ovenment of the Republic of
Moklova will take all neceary steps to have annulled, withdrawn or caLhced agy
law, decree, oder, decistion or otiher legal fIbU, tlmt curmutly requ is or allows fir
any of te above imtervetions as mufualty identified during the course of SAC m.
2
- 104-



MEMORANDUM OF 1JNDERESTAND)NG
Deem  ber 10, 2001
awd to avoid introducing such legislation in the future. Ihere was agrcment that
SAC ITT would support mauitenance on a cortinuous basis of these principles.
With regard to the State Reserves, the GovcrnmenL and th IIDA Learn committed t)
agree during egotlons on:
a) the level of grain to te held by the s Acgic reserve in line with the fiscat
situAon of the coumtty3 and
b) the opmtiag principkes for the tategc rcserves
On this latter, the Govermernt agrd notionally that tie operatoal principles would
likely be similar to the ollovtnVg
a) the reservs would cit bc used o inentionally influe  priccs or quantiti of
grai on the market and would be held only for 'emergency" use; released
base on clear Citerit such as domestic prices being more than 15% above
CIP priecs;
b) purchas and sates uroukl be effteted oTily in cash dtough th commod;ity
exchangesM and
c) the  would be no e. chang an mmonthly grain balances (ie.. purchases and
:salcs would bc offset mad  riaed out unly to ensure stock rotation).
Specifically, the Oovernwe: agreed that folowwg such prmciptes would terminate
the pra" of requiring bkerks tD pumlasm  min at desWinated pries fiom the
Sratr c Reserve and to annil Govenment decisions 5$S anid 730 before Board.
Thc (ovnmemt agrc*d that it would Cose wwcpum  of paymcznt in graia fiw past-
due debL
The Governmaxt provided W>A with the implementing regulations for the
Agriculural Support rund (ASF) fbr review. and ibe twio partivub agivd that they
wotld be promlgated only ance tbey ar mutually agreeable. The two parties agreed
to a six montb  view priod to a$css the progress ofth program and to make
adjusuLs as necessary. T  Oovernnnt firther ageedthatothersignirwant
subsidies from the budget to i he agriculturl sector would also be discussed and
apod with IWA
-105 -



MEMORANDUM OF UNDERISTANDING
Decocmber 10, 2001
VimMile TarJv
Prmc Minist.f
Carlos EF t 
Resdcnt
World Bank
_. .) 
Valmiu MuonccWu
Deputy Memint of
Agriculte and Food Po  Ging
- 106-



Additional Annex 14: Performance Indicators and Triggers for Phase II
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Program and Project Performance Indicators and Triggers for Phase II
Progress toward achieving the project objectives would be tracked through a monitoring and evaluation
(M& E) system. A Baseline Survey (January 2001) was carried out during project preparation in order to
establish a reference basis on which incremental impact of the program and the project could be measured.
These indicators, as well as triggers, are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), which would be
reviewed during regular supervision and at a mid-term review (before June 30, 2004 or before 50% of the
first phase APL is disbursed, whichever is sooner).
Program Performance Indicators
Sectorwide indicators would include: (a) a more favorable macroeconomic and business environment as
measured by overall economic and sector indicators; (b) a developed land market and emergence of
genuinely restructured farms as measured by the number of land transactions and registered private farms;
(c) increased domestic and export sales of agro-food products as measured by increases in the volume and
amounts of agricultural commerce; (d) improved marketing opportunities, infrastructure and practices, as
measured by increases in the number of registered agro-food distributors, exporters and other participants
in agricultural trade; (e) increased production and productivity in key crop and livestock sub-sectors as
measured in random sample farm budget analyses; and (f) increased non-farm economic activities and
employment in rural areas as measured by village level assessments.
Institution and human development indicators would include: (a) higher awareness among farmers
regarding the benefits of organizing themselves as measured by an increase in the number of and
membership in organized and registered farmer groups and associations; (b) full understanding of their
legal rights as land owners as measared by an increase in titles; (c) heightened sense of private
entrepreneurial spirit among newly created private farmers and rural entrepreneurs as measured by an
increase in the number of registered private rural - individual and group - enterprises; and (d) strengthened
post-privatization support services and increased access to rural advisory services as measured by the
number of advisory centers and clients that will be confirmed by surveys of client satisfaction.
Financial indicators would include: (a) an increase in the institutional commercial credit flow to the rural
sector as measured by the number of participating financial institutions (PFIs), e.g. commercial banks and
RFC, and the total volume of credit; (b) diversification of rural portfolio as measured by the conmposition of
actual lending activities of PFIs; (c) continuous compliance of PFI eligibility by at least three PFIs as
confirmed by the National Bank supervision department; (d) improved loan appraisal skills of PFIs as
measured by sound portfolio quality; (e) inclusion and diversification of the rural finance system for
small-scale, rural clients as measured by an increase in the number and volume of lending; (f) strengthened
regulatory and supervision capacity of Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) by restoring the functions
of the SSB; and (g) increased rural income as measured by incremental increases in rural household
incomes compared to the Baseline Survey reference data base.
Adaptable Program Credit (APC) Second Phase Triggers
Before moving on to the second phase of the APC, the following triggers should be achieved:
- 107 -



(a)    Continuous adherence to the priority legal, regulatory and agricultural policy reforms as
articulated in the Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP) and the Memorandum of
Understanding for Agriculture (MOU);
(b)    Creation of fully developed legal statutes of private farms and rural entrepreneurs as
measured by increasing numbers of registered private farms and rural businesses;
(c)    The efficient operation of Service Providers for advisory services (with a minimum 35 SPs
in operation and a minimum 100 general contracts and 300 special contracts implemented);
(d)    The effective rural business development services (a minimum 900 legal rural business
created and registered and a minimum 3 Development Agencies (DAs) with 15 mobile teams
involved in rural business development;
(e)    Successful integration of commercial banks into rural financing as demonstrated by at
least three fully functioning and active participating financial institutions (PFIs);
(f)    Sound portfolio as measured by a minimum 85% recovery rate under the rural finance
component;
(g)    Adequate regulatory and supervisory capacity of the State Supervisory Body (SSB) as
demonstrated by all licensed SCAs being in full compliance with the prudential regulations with
minimum default rates (less than 5%);
(h)    Disbursement of at least 75% of the first-phase credit line operation; and
Disbursement of at least 75% of the non-credit line components or evidence that an equivalent
quantity and quality of technical assistance has been provided and has resulted in enhanced local
institutional capacity.
- 108 -



Additional Annex 15: Monitoring and Evaluation System
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the project would be regularly undertaken based on the M&E
indicators and mechanisms that have been set-up for each component and sub-component. The following
tables summarize key elements of such indicators. Based on the results of the year-end M&E review,
lessons learned would be incorporated into CAPMU's work programs for the subsequent year.
1. Rural Advisory Services Component
Project Activities to be Monitored                       Method                Frequency
Development of competitive contracting system for SPs
*       Development of operational manial                            Progress reports          Quarterly
*       Staff training                                               Progress reports          Quarterly
*       Training of trainers                                         Progress reports          Quarterly
Promotional activities
*       Development of information and training materials            Progress reports          Quarterly
*       Promotion activities organization of roundtables, seminars, etc.  Progress reports     Quarterly
Development of the service provider netvork
*       Number of service providers employed                         Progress reports          Quarterly
*       Number of special contracts issue d                          Progress reports          Quarterly
Provision of services to farmers:
number of clients                                                 Progress reports          Quarterly
*       number of repeat clients                                     Progress reports          Quarterly
*       number of verbal consultations                               Progress reports          Quarterly
*       number of written consultations                              Progress reports           Quarterly
*       number of field-days conducted                               Progress reports           Quarterly
*       number of round tables conducted                             Progress reports           Quarterly
*       number of seminars conducted                                 Progress reports           Quarterly
*       number and subjects of business plans supported              Progress reports           Quarterly
*       number of farmer groups supported through the SP             Progress reports           Quarterly
*       number "match-making services" cases (linking producers and  Progress reports           Quarterly
processors)
- 109 -



2. Rural Business Development Component
Project Activities to be Monitored                       Method                 Frequency
Development Agencies:
1. Information campaigns in judets and villages
Number of villages where the information campaign was performed       Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of meetings in villages                                        Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of requests received                                           Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of RBs and individuals supported by the DAs                    Progress reports           Quarterly
2. Selection of RBs for participation in the project
Number of feasibility studies prepared                                Progress reports
Number of selected beneficiaries                                      Progress reports         Quarterly
Number of signed memorandums of understanding                         Progress reports           Quarterly
3. Business planning, registration, management support, training and
consultancy
Number of RBs and individuals registered as legal entities (by type of  Progress reports         Quarterly
business)
Number of RBs and individuals with final business plans               Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of RBs and individuals having submitted credit applications to  Progress reports          Quarterly
commercial banks
Number of RBs and individuals having received credit / grant from     Progress reports           Quarterly
commercial banks
4. Activities supported after registration and loan acceptance
Number of visits and discussion sessions                              Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of seminars                                                    Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of RBs and individuals having started their business activities  Progress reports         Quarterly
Number of RBs judged strong and sustainable enough to continue        Progress reports           Quarterly
operating by themselves
Average number of RBs group activities members                        Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of RBs and individuals repaying in time their credit to the    Progress reports           Quarterly
commercial banks
Number of RBs dissolved                                               Progress reports           Quarterly
Number of RBs and individuals bankrupted                              Progress reports           Quarterly
- 110-



3. Rural Finance Component
Project Activities to !be Monitored                        Method                    Frequency
CREDIT LINE IMPLEMENTATION
1. Lending Progress, by Credit Line
Total outstanding loan portfolio                                         Progress report              Quarterly
Number of borrowers; loans                                              Progress reports              Quarterly
Total amount approved                                                   Progress reports              Quarterly
Total amount disbursed, including matching grant funds                  Progress reports              Quarterly
2. Loan Specifications (by Credit Line)
Average loan amount and interest rate                                   Progress reports              Quarterly
Average maturity and grace period                                       Progress reports              Quarterly
3. Type of Loans
Investment vs. Working capital                                          Progress reports              Quarterly
4. Loan Purpose                                                                                _-
Agricultural production                                                 Progress reports              Quarterly
Agro-processing                                                         Progress reports              Quarterly
Non-agricultural activities                                             Progress reports              Quarterly
Trade, etc.                                                             Progress reports              Quarterly
5. Loan Pipeline
Number and amount                                                       Progress reports              Quarterly
Purpose and type                                                        Progress reports              Quarterly
6. Recovery rate                                                        Progress reports              Quarterly
7. Portfolio at Risk
Loans with arrears as a % of outstanding loan portfolio                 Progress reports         Quarterly
Non-performing loans, as a % of outstanding loan portfolio              Progress reports         Quarterly
Provisions as a % of portfolio at risk                                  Progress reports              Quarterly
11 PFI MONITORING
1. Financial Position
Total asset size                                                  Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Total loan portfolio                                              Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Long-term liabilities, including                                 Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
IDA Credit Lines form the GOM                                   Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Deposits                                                         Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Equity and reserves                                              Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Net operating income                                             Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Staff and administrative expenditures                            Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Loan loss provisions                                             Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Net Profit / Loss                                                 Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
2. Ratios
Capital adequacy                                                  Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
ROA                                                               Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
ROE                                                              Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months
Admin.exp. and loan loss provisions) as a % of the average loan portfolio  Audited reports / PFI reports  Every six months



Additional Annex 16: Results of the Pilot Project
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Moldova
Rural Investment and Services Project
Progress of Pilot Activity (at December 31, 2001)
1.     Pilot Rural Advisory Services Component
Pilot advisory services were commenced with support of EU TACIS and a PPF. The following table
summarizes the actual results of the pilot program:
Activities                                            No.
Number of Active Service Providers (SPs)              9*
Number of Judets Served                               10
Number of First Stage Consultations (verbal) Provided  12,700
Number of Second Stage Consultation (written) Provided  1,096
Number of On-site Visits & Participants               841 / 3,725
Number of Round-table meetings and Participants       133 / 1,494
Number of Seminars held for Beneficiaries             165 / 3,288
Number of Actual Clients Served                       22,303
* As of April 15, 2002, 17 Service providers have already been contracted.
Others: an operational manual and component implementation plan are in place and selection procedures,
ex ante and ex post analysis of quality of services provided have been tested. The monitoring system has
been established including a standard format for quarterly progress reporting to IDA.
2.     Pilot Rural Business Development Support Services Component
Pilot rural business development support services have started with support of SOROS and a PPF. The
following table summarizes the actual results of the pilot program:
Activities                                         No.
Number of Business Development NGOs                3
Number of Villages Served                          123
Number of Registered Business Entities (Groups)    46
Number of Registered Business Entities (Individuals  5
Total Number of Legally Registered Business Entities  51
Number of Business Plans Developed                 39
Number of Loans Applications prepared              19
Number of Loan Applications Approved               4
Others: An operational manual and a component implementation plan are in place; concrete results (in the
- 112-



forms of private rural business actually registered) demonstrate the need and high demand for this type of
support services program. Ex-ante and ex-post analysis systems of quality of services, including a
monitoring system with a standard format for quarterly progress reporting are in place.
3.     Pilot Rural Finance Ccmponent
Pilot credit line operations have begrun during the second half of 2001 with four commercial ban]cs and RFP
as participating financial institutions. As of end March 2002:
> PFIs have approved a total of 20 subloans (over $300,000), and the pipelines include about 60
pending subloans (for about US$1.1 million);
> Of which 51 are for the special credit line support the first time individual and group borrowers;
> The average special credit line subloan is about $16,000 (mostly group loans) while the average
general credit line subloan is about $27,000 (made to individual borrowers with adequate collateral);
> Average loan duration is 48 months;
> Average interest rate is around 22% for MDL loans;
> Types of economic activities supported include agricultural production, dairy, small-scale dairy
processing, grain mills, tractors, a mechanization services cooperative, and other equipment;
> Demand for credit to support agriculture and processing activities appears to be high;
> Non-agricultural activities, such as tailoring, sewing, bakery, small-scale market infrast-ucture,
information equipment, etc. are also being supported; and
> Demand for non-agricultural activities exists but is relatively smaller than those directly linked to
agricultural sector.
PFI and portfolio monitoring will take place regularly. The National Bank, which is represented
on the project Steering Committee, will issue a written confirmation semi-annually reconfirming
the full compliance of PFIs with the eligibility criteria. The Technical Unit, already ftmctioning for
over five years with a commendable track record, will continue to collect pertinent information on
PFIs and will convey to IDA independent verifications that each PFI fully meets the eligibility
criteria.
- 113-



Additional Annex 17: Overview of Banking Sector and Assessment of Potential
Participating Financial Institutions
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Banking Supervision - Moldova's Achievement of International Standards
In 1991, Moldova committed itself to economic reform and has led among the other CIS countries in and
transition to a market economy. With strong support from the IMF and other intemational organizations,
the banking sector moved quickly toward intemational standards.
Progress over the first decade:
*   1991 Creation of the NBM as an autonomous legal entity, responsible only to the country's
Parliament, resulting in an effective two-tier system. The NBM provides regulatory and supervisory
control over commercial banks, and monetary policy;
*   1993 successful introduction of the Moldova lei. Today, the Moldovan lei is fully convertible,
repatriatable, and has enjoyed relative stability;
* 1995 Law on Financial Institutions - provides a legal and regulatory base patterned after
international standards, including key measures such as minimum capital requirements, mime liquidity,
deposit-to-capital ratio, single exposure to single client group, and foreign exchange exposure. In some
cases, Moldova has set stricter standards than Basle, such as the critical minimum capital, set at 12%
reflecting the Basle recommendation for emerging markets, rather than the Basle minimum of 8%;
*   1996 banks moved to electronic clearing and connected to the SWIFT;
*   1997 beginning of annual on-site examinations of each bank, assigning a CAMEL rating, with the
Bank Resolution Unit following up with weak banks; and
* 1998 New accounting standards for banks, approaching IAS.
In late 1998, the stability of the banking system was tested by the Russian economic crisis. However, the
Moldovan banking sector had the depth to survive the crisis without any major bank collapse. The
progress and stability of the sector was validated the following year by the World Bank in a comprehensive
study. Attachment I is two summary tables from the study confirming the progress made. (Banking Sector
Note, Moldova. Prepared by Sonia Bratanovic, Vince Polizatto, Hennie van Greuning, Robert Keppler,
Michael Pomerleano; work concluded February 1999. Tables: Adherence to Principles for Effective
Banking Supervision; Robust Banking Sector Indicators).
Development of the of the banking sector in Moldova over the last four years is characterized by the
following data:
Table 1. Overall Growth of the Banking Sect  in Moldova in millions MD Lei
12/31/98    12/31/99    12/31/00   12/31/01
Number of Banks                 23          23          20          19
Total Assets                   2,660.9    3,201.3     4,665.1     5,915.3
Total Capital                   737.3      925.3      1,428.2     1,593.6
Total Loan Portfolio           1,771.4     1,597.6    1,635.7     3,154.8
Total Provisions               350.8       298.0       264.8       232.2
Total Deposits                 1,047.7     1,587.7    2,314.3     3,437.0
Incl. From Private Individuals  474.9      617.5       888.9      1,665.1
Exchange Rate to US$, EOP       8.32       11.59       12.38       13.09
- 114-



In addition to an adequate foundation of law, regulation, and supervision, there are other factors that
contribute to continued growth and stability of the banking sector:
* The Moldovan banks derive the bulk of their profit from interest and fee income from traditional
banking activity. Lending accounts for 53.3% of total banking assets. (Table 1 above);
*  Loan portfolios and banks' lending practices are seasoned: Loss Provisions, based on Basle
principles and confirmed by N13M on-site examinations and independent IAS audits by major
accounting firms, decreased from 11.5% of total loans at year-end 2000 to 7.4% at year-end 2001;
* Lending skills have been sharpened in part by various credit lines from a number of donor
organizations, usually including technical assistance and training. Lines varied from EBRD's
micro-lending to IBRD's middLe-market PSD1. The banks' prior training in lending has been apparent
to the RISP team during the PPF;
* Transparency - banks publicly disclose operating results monthly on National Accounting
Standards which approximate lAS; and
*  There is healthy competitien among banks for a diversity of individual and commercial clients.
The NBM has also a significant role in the general macroeconomic reforms, including the decreasing
inflation rate, which dropped to 6.3% in 2001. With inflation and lending rates decreasing, total lending
almost doubled from year-end 2000 (Table 1 above). The imminent passage in 2002 of Civil Code
(mandated by IMF and World Bank: as condition for continued lending), will be the next milestone in
improving the business climate and lending to businesses.
While the number of credit lines and investments in banks by the intemational community is a positive sign,
confidence in system is best illustrated by the nation's citizenry which increased deposits 48% in 2001,
with deposits by individuals growing 87%.
Regulatory Increases in Minimum Capital
Banks receive one of three levels oi' licenses based primarily on a minimum regulatory capital. The smaller
banks with a license A can operate only in domestic currency. Banks with B or C licenses can conduct
international operations dealing in fbreign currencies. Banks with C license may also engage in capital
market and trust operations.
To strengthen the banking sector (with the support of IMF and the Bank) the NBM began a series of
increases in the minimum capital requirements for each license, culminating on January 1, 2001 with the
capital requirements in effect today. The regulatory increases had the desired effect, as the capital doubled
over the past three years, to over $100 million sector-wide.
Capital requirements for licenses A, B, and C. As of January 1, 2000, the minimum capital requirements
were MDL 24 million, MDL 32 miflion, and MDL 48 million, for type A, B, and C license respectively. As
of July 1, 2000, the NBM effectively increased the minimum capital required by 50%, to MDL 36 million
(type A license), MDL 48 million (13 license), and MDL 72 million (type C license). The minimum capital
requirements were further strengthened as of January 1, 2001 (a 100% increase from the January 1, 2000),
when they reached MDL 48 million for A license banks, MDL 64 million for B license banks, and MDL 96
million for license C banks.
- 115-



The higher capital requirements were not easy for all banks to achieve. Fincombank and Universal Bank,
both potential candidates for RISP, have had difficulty achieving a B class license necessary for
participation.
Challenge to NBM Authority. Following a court litigation proceeding of one of the commercial banks
versus the NBM (the NBM won the case), an amendment to the Law on Financial Institutions Act was
proposed in early 2002 which would allow the court to instruct the NBM to return the license. This serious
infringement on the authority and autonomy of the NBM was immediately challenged by the World Bank
and the IMF, and remains unresolved at the time of this paper. Representatives of the GOM reassured the
IMF in its mission early in 2002 that it opposes the amendment.
Composition of the Banking Sector
Attachment 2, "Moldovan Bank Statistics, 2001," lists all 19 commercial banks in Moldova, ranked by
capital and identifying their corresponding license. Most of the banks were established between 1989 and
1994, and all are predominantly privately owned, with the exception of the savings bank (Banca de
Economii).
Top Tier: The four largest banks (in both total assets and total capital) carry C-licenses and are the first
four banks participating in RISP under the PPF. These four banks account for 60% of the total banking
assets in the sector, and 64% of the total lending. Three of them were former state banks, privatized in
1994-1995 (Agrolndbank, Banca Sociala, Moldinconbank). Number one, Agroindbank is easily the
largest, with 25% of all banking assets in the nation and 25% of all lending, it is also twice the size as
number two, Victoria Bank. Of the four, only Victoria Bank was charted with new capital.
Two more banks may soon achieve a C-License: Banca de Economii, the fifth largest in total assets, and
sole remaining state savings bank, almost doubled its capital between 2000 and 2001, just exceeding the
100 million lei (approx. US$7.5 million) mark. Also breaking the 100 million lei mark is Mobiasbanca, a
private bank exceptionally well capitalized with less than half of the assets of the other C-license banks.
Along with Victoria Bank, Mobiasbanca is the only other bank in the top six that was not originally a state
bank. The two banks achieved prominence largely by focusing on exporters and emerging private
enterprises, with substantial deposits in foreign exchange.
Middle Tier: The next eight B-license banks constitute a distinct second-tier. Each has capital of $5 to $6
million and assets between US$8 to $15 million. These banks generally are large enough to have
multi-branch systems; and with licenses that permit them to conduct business in foreign exchange, they do
provide effective competition to the top-tier. Three or four of these B-licensed banks will be considered for
participation in RISP after the 2001 audits are received. (For more on RISP participating banks, see below
"Selection and Monitoring of PFIs")
Bottom Tier: The remaining four banks, with A-licenses, constitute the bottom tier. Licensed to conduct
business only in lei, their influence on the banking sector is insignificant, both in terms of lending and
mobilization of deposits.
Foreign banks: There are no restrictions on establishment of foreign banks or branches in Moldova. Four
foreign banks (Banca Comerciala Romana, Bancoop of Romania, Banca Turco-Romana of Turkey, and
the Commercial bank of Greece) have established subsidiaries in the country.
Foreign Ownership: A number of banks in Moldova have foreign shareholders. The largest foreign
- 116-



investors are the EBRD, the Banca C'omerciala Romana, Bancoop of Romania (this bank has gone
bankrupt), and Lukoil (a Russian oil business).
Lending to Agriculture
The share of the agricultural portfolio is relatively large in the total portfolio of banks. As of end-February
2002, the total lending to agricultura]! production and processing amounted to MDL 860.7 million (US$
63.7 million equivalent) or about 30 percent of the total lending by banks. As the enclosed Table 2 shows,
the share of agricultural lending has been stable in the overall loan portfolio of the commercial banking
sector, at around 30%. The major part of agriculture-related credits is granted to the processing industry
and to input suppliers, whilst credit to primary agricultural producers is very small and mostly provided to
larger production units. The small emerging individual private farmers have practically no access to credit
from commercial banks.
Table 2. Lending to Agriculture (I'roduction and Processing) by Commercial banks, in millions
MD Lei
_1231/98  12131/99  12/31/00  03/31/01  06/30/01  09/30/01  12/31/01  02/28/02
Total Loan Portfolio  1,771.4  1,597.6  2,283.7  2,379.2  2,563.0  2,826.2  3,154.8  3,124.8
Lending to         446.1     444.:,    662.8    689.9    710.7     781.4    850.6     860.7
Agriculture
As a % of Total      25       28        29       29       28        28       27        28
Portfolio        I_I           I                      I         I         I        I
Selection and Monitoring of Participating Financial Institutions
Careful attention has been given to the initial selection of Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) for
RISP, and to the procedures for monitoring eligibility of PFIs and for considering new candidate PFIs.
Eligibility Criteria and Initial Selec tion of PFIs
The specific eligibility criteria of PFI; have been included in the Rural Credit Guidelines (attached to the
Negotiations minutes) and Annex 2.
Initial eligibility criteria were established in conformity with the Bank's OP8.30. Criteria under RISP is
expressly set forth in the Rural Credit Guidelines, and include: General Standards (overall compliance with
banking rules and regulations, annual IAS audit), Financial Standards (e.g. standards for capital, liquidity,
loan loss provisioning, and profitabilifty), and Managerial Standards (governance, intemal controls, policies
and procedures, information systems). The criteria used for RISP is similar to the criteria used for the
nearly completed First Private Sector Development credit line (PSDI).
The establishing and monitoring of financial criteria are simplified by the significant progress of reform in
the Moldovan banking sector. The noims set by the National Bank of Moldova (NBM), as well as the
procedures for off-site and on-site monitoring of compliance, were pattemed after Basle principles.
Without exception, the financial standards imposed by the NBM are consistent with Bank & ECA
guidelines. In the critical case of Minimum Capital, it should be noted that the NBM standard of 12%
exceeds the Basle minimum of 8% reflecting instead the Basle (and Bank) recommendation for emerging
markets.
- 117 -



Rural Focus: In addition to the general Bank and ECA guidelines, candidate FIs for participation in RISP
must also have adequate presence and lending potential in rural communities. This eliminates a number of
banks that would otherwise be viable, but which operate primarily in the city centers. To promote more
lending in rural areas, the RISP team seeks to foster interest by other banks and will consider additional
banks for participation (current candidates discussed in next section).
Skills Capacity: Beyond organizational and financial stability and capacity, all PFIs must demonstrate a
commitment to lending and a capacity for sound lending. Moldovan banks have already demonstrated their
capacity through successfully implementation of credit lines from donor organizations. All four of the
commercial banks currently participating in the RISP Project Preparation Facility (PPF), as well as the two
banks seeking participation, have previously implemented credit lines from donors such as IFC, EBRD,
and IBRD, including the recently concluded PSDl. Donor credit lines cover a range from micro-lending
(EBRD) to middle-market lending (PSD 1), and virtually all were supported by technical assistance.
RISP team members have visited each bank on multiple occasions, and are satisfied with their capacity in
skills and procedures. All project potential PFI submits a questionnaire on annual basis for monitoring
purposes to the IDA team (these questionnaires are available on project file). Initial subprojects submitted
under the PPF confirm reasonable credit analysis and structuring.
Financial Institutions Participating under the Project Preparation Facility
The chart Moldovan Bank Statistics, Dec. 31, 2002 (Annex 2), lists all 19 private banks in Moldova. The
four largest banks, holding all four of the "C" licenses, are all participating in the PPF. Presently, no
banks with "B" licenses (which permit dealings in foreign currencies and trade) are participating in the
PPF, but two or three candidates will be considered when 2001 audits are available. Many "B" license
banks do not have adequate presence and commitment to rural development (some banks eliminated from
RISP did participate in PSD 1). The four or five smallest banks with "A" licenses can not participate
because an "A" license does not allow dealings in foreign currency.
RISP has begun under the PPF with the four largest commercial banks - Moldova Agroindbank, Victoria
Bank, Moldinconbank, Banca Sociala - plus a non-bank, the Rural Finance Corporation. As noted
above, the capacity of the banks to analyze and structure credits is acceptable, as all have extensive loan
portfolios using their own funds and funds from other donor credit lines. 12 projects have been submitted
by three PFIs - Moldinconbank (6 loans), Victoria Bank (3), and the Rural Finance Corporation (3). All
loans are relatively small ($5,000 - $25,000; one is for $60,000), all are in rural areas benefiting rural
economic development, and all are reasonably structured. Banca Sociala and Moldova AgroindBank, while
expressing commitment, have yet to submit their initial projects.
Rural Finance Corporation: The RFC is a non-bank institution set up by the IDA initially to provide an
intermediary to on-lend funds to the new Savings and Credit Associations. Along with the maturing of
some SCAs and their members, RFC has also matured, and supported with TA has developed the capacity
for direct lending. RFC submitted and has funded the first three loans under the PPF, and has a pipeline of
over 40 subloans. RFC expects a capital injection from another donor organization (CNFA) later in 2002,
and under RISP, will receive additional technical assistance and strengthening in capacity. With its
extensive roots in the rural sector, RFC is a catalyst for small rural lending, and the best fit for IDA
poverty alleviation.
Potential Candidate Banks
- 118-



Two commercial banks - Fincomb:ank, Universalbank - have formally requested participation, and will
be measured against the eligibility criteria after the 2001 audits are available. Neither is a certain addition,
as both have had difficulty achieving the higher capital requirements set by the NBM for B-license. The
2001 audit on Fincombank reveals a slight shortfall, while the February 2002 statement on Universalbank
reveals a substantial drop in its equity to well below the B-license minimum. Capital, while perhaps the
most important, is only one criteria. Fincombank, which should achieve the proper equity from retained
earnings in as little as two or three rnonths, may be eligible under IDA Guidelines to be participate on a
probation basis, with a written plan for institutional strengthening. Universal is likely to be deferred
indefinitely. Two other banks - Eximbank and Unibank - both B-license banks with adequate capital,
have expressed interest and will be considered after review of their 2001 audits.
Monitoring PFI Eligibility
In accordance with Bank and ECA standards, all PFIs are monitored at least semi-annually for continued
eligibility. Formal review of RISP PFIs will be conducted in April and May, following receipt of 2001
annual audits and management leiters.
Monitoring financial standards in Moldova is not difficult given that the eligibility criteria is defined in
terms of NBM regulations, and the NlBM is cooperative in confirming and reporting when banks are or are
not in compliance with NBM standards. Financial monitoring is also facilitated by the relatively good
accounting standards required of banks, approaching IAS, and the high degree of disclosure. All banks
report financial results publicly monthly.
The Technical Unit (TU), which was set up under the PSD I as a bank-monitoring agency, had the
responsibility of collecting periodical information on the financial and operational status of the banks for
further analysis by the TU and IDA. The TU, which has been relocated to the Ministry of Finance as a
separate unit, will continue functioning under the RISP, in close cooperation with IDA team. IDA team
members will proactively address all findings of the accounting firms (including the Management Letters)
and the NBM with the management of the banks, and focus attention on the practices, policies, and
capabilities in their lending departments.
119-



Attachment 1
Adherence to Principles for Effective Banking Supervision
Score    Indicator
I. Licensing and                        . Controlled use of word "bank"
S      * Permissible actvities licensed and subject to supervision
Structure                       s       .Authority to set criteria for licensing
S      * Authority to reject for not meeting standards
S      * Licensing process includes assessment of ownership structure, directors, business plan,
projected financial condition, capital base
* Operating license includes assessment of premises, management, procedures, internal
controls and mgmt. information systems
S      * Authority to review and reject proposals to transfer significant ownership
PS      * Authority to review major acquisition or investments by banks
PS      * Authority to effectively force exit if safety standards not met
II. Prudential                  PS     . Minimum capital requirements
S      * Capital adequacy rules
Regulations                     PS     .Asset classification, loss provisions and reserves
PS      * Limits to exposure to single borrowers/related groups
PS      * Portfolio concentation
PsS    * Limits and control of lending to affiliated parties
PS     *Limits to currency risk exposure
* Limits and capital charge on market risk
PS      * Rules on intemal controls, incl. separation of functions/delegation of authority
* Promote high ethical and professional standards
S
III. Effective     Use of       s      . Impose corrective actions when a bank fails to meet prudential requirements
* Issue cease and desist orders
Supervisory Powers              PS     . Impose fines
S      * Replace board members and management
S      * Initiate receivership
IV. Methods of                  PS      . Independent evaluation of policies/procedures/practices for evaluating asset quality and
adequacy of loss provision and reserves
Supervision                    PS      . Independent evaluation of policies/procedures/practices for granting loans
* Independent evaluation of lending and advances to connected parties
S      * Independent assessment of banks' risk management process
S      * Regular contact with banks management
* Collection and review of prudential reports and statistical retums on an individual and
PS      group basis
* Effective analysis and use of collected infomiation
PS      * Capacity to validate information through on-site analysis
s      * Obligatory extemal audits of banks
S     I
FS - Fully Satisfactory; S - Satisfactory; PS - Partially Satisfactory;
U - Unsatisfactory; HU - Highly Unsatisfactory; NA - Not Applicable
- 120 -



Attachment 2
Robust Banking System Indicators
Category                    'core    Indicator
Market Structure                          S      .        Open to qualified new entrants, including from abroad
U       *       Share of foreign participants in total assets
PS      *        Financial sector concentration ratios
HU       *       Liquid inter-bank money and capital markets
S       *       Regulations permit full range of financial instruments
PsS     *        Sound/effective payment and settlement systems
PS      *       Share of banking system assets held by public sector financial institutions
S       *        Effectively enforceable exit
Supervisory/Regulatory                   PS      .        Independent from political interference
.  *     Power to force disclosure, impose penalty, impose corrective actions
Authority                                 S      *        in principle
PS      *        in practice
PS      *       Adequate off-and on-site supervision resources
S      *        Conducts supervision on a consolidated basis
PS      *        Verification of information on risk management and intemal control systems and
on asset quality by regular examinations or extemal audits
*        Adherence to norms established by intemational consultative bodies (BIS, etc):
s      *        in principle
PS      .        in practice
*        Measures to address particular types of risks:
*        Evaluation of risk management systems
PS      *        Connected lending
S      *        Risk exposure and loan concentration
PS      *        Special attention to foreign currency/interest rate risk management and exposures
U      *        Scrutiny of asset quality/capital adequacy in face of sharp asset price movements
*        Strategy for addressing financial insolvency:
U      *        Prompt corrective actions effectively enforced
*        Effective exit policy in principle and practice
PS
PS
Design of the Safety Net                 NA      *        Explicit deposit insurance paid for by banks
PS      *       Appropriate allocation of losses among stakeholders
PS      *       Stringent conditionality for the use of public money
Stakeholder Oversight/Governance           PS      *       Capital adequacy requirements commensurate with nsk
and                                        PS     *        Effective screening of ownership
Institutional Capacity                     U      *        Adequate oversight/govemance by boards.
U      *        Replacement of management for poor perfommance/enforceable financial liability
*        Adequate institutional capacity, including for risk management
U      *        Pervasive use of effective systems of risk management and intemal control
U
Legal and Juridical                      INS     .        Well-defined property rights/contract law
U               Market contracts easily enforceable in practice
Framework                                PS      .        Ability to pledge and seize collateral
U      *        Well-developed bankruptcy code
Accounting, Disclosure                   IS      .        Loan valuation/asset classification/provision practices reflecting sound risk
assessment
and Transparency                        JI s     .        Regular (FS) and effective (PS) extemal auditing mechanism
] U      *       Information on banks' creditworthiness publicly available on a regular, frequent
basis
IJ      *       Timely publication of relevant aggregate financial data (macroeconomic
indicators, reserves, banking sector statistics, etc.)
HU       *       Availability of impartial credit-rating/credit informnation facilities
FS - Fully Satisfactory; S - Satisfactory; PS - Partially Satisfactory;
U- Unsatisfactory; HU - Highly Unsatisfactory; NA - Not Applicable
- 121 -



Attachment 3
Summary of the Project PFIs
(For information on RFC, please see Annexes 5 and 19)
Agroindbank - Moldova
Ranking*:                 1st largest bank in Moldova
Established:              May 1991
Type of license:          C
Operational modalities:   Operates as a commercial and savings bank performing a wide
range of services and addressing all categories of customers
Branches:                 43, of which 5 in Chisinau and 38 in regions
Lending Staff:            196, of which 137 in rural areas
Ownership:                100% private; approx. 20% foreign investors, the remaining
80% are held by companies and private individuals, about 4,000
Experience in working with  +    EBRD - credit lines of US$ 25.7 million and DEM 12.5
international organizations: million, including a convertible option credit line of US$ 8
million
____ _ _   * CNFA credit line of US$ 1.2 million
Remarks:                  A former state-owned bank..
Victoriabank
Ranking*:                 2nd largest bank in Moldova
Established:              1989
Type of license:          C
Operational modalities:   Main focus is corporate banking, and the bank focuses on
private sector companies, mainly micro- and SMEs, involved in
trading and export-oriented manufacturing
Branches:                 12, of which 4 in Chisinau and 8 in regions
Lending Staff:            25, of which 10 in regions
Ownership:                 100% private ownership, 57% of shareholding held by foreign
investors
Experience in working with  *    EBRD - credit lines of US$ 5 million
international organizations:  +  WB - creditlines of US$ 2.27 million and DEM 2.87
million
*      In addition, the bank has received credit lines from
private commercial banks, in amount of EUR 1.36 million and
US$ 10 million
Remarks:                  Established as one of the first commercial bank established in
the FSU. 1998 has been named by the Central European
Magazine as the best bank in Moldova.
- 122-



Banca Sociala
Ranking*:                 3Rd largest bank in Moldova
Established:              April 1991
Type of license:          C
Operational modalities:   Operates as a commercial and savings bank performing a wide
range of services and addressing all categories of customers
Branches:                19, of which 4 in Chisinau and 15 in regions
Lending Staff:            77', of which 31 in regions
Ownership:                I00% privately owned, with approx. 70% of shareholding held
by private farms, and the remaining 30% - by private
ini_ividuals.
Experience in working with  *    WB credit line of US$ 1.60 million and DEM 2.78
international organizations: million
Remarks:                  A former state-owned bank.
Moldinconbank
Ranking*:                 4th largest bank in Moldova
Established:              October 1991
Type of license:          C
Operational modalities:   Operates as a commercial and savings bank through the network
of branches
Branches:                 19, of which 6 in Chisinau and 13 in regions
Lending Staff:            55, of which 19 in rural areas
Ownership:                100% privately owned, with approx. 970 shareholders, mixed
companies and private individuals
Experience in working with  *    WB creditline under PSD
international organizations:  *  EBRD trade financing facility of US$ 1.5 million and a
micro-credit program
______  * IFC credit line of US$ 1.5 million
Remarks:                  A former state-owned bank.
- 123-



Additional Annex 18: Overview of the Savings and Credit Association Development
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Background
1. A pilot initiative for the creation of Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) was started in early 1997.
FIDES, an intemational NGO that specializes in micro-finance, provided the initial training and advice,
under an agreement with GOM, the National Bank and the World Bank, with financing from various
donors, including the Dutch Government, Women's World Banking, the Soros Foundation and others. The
German GTZ joined the program from March 1998 with a substantial financial contribution.
2. In the spring of 1997, FIDES established 11 SCAs and provided loans to about 400 of their members
for a total amount of US$ 180,000 equivalent. By the end of that year, an additional 12 SCAs were
organized and had received training and support from FIDES.
The Rural Finance Project
3. Building on the experience gained from the pilot initiative, an IDA Project (LIL) with a Credit of US$
5.0 million (SDR 3.7 million) was prepared, appraised at the end of 1997 and approved in January 1998,
preceded by a PPF and by a PHRD grant to support the activities started under the pilot initiative.
4. The Project's objectives included: (a) the development of SCAs though technical assistance and training
by an NGO acceptable to IDA; (b) the establishment of a regulatory body for the SCAs, and (c) the
establishment of the Rural Finance Corporation (RFC), a non-bank financial institution to on-lend funds
provided under the Project to legally established and licensed SCAs.
The Legal Framework for SCAs
5. The creation and operation of SCAs are governed by the "Law on Savings and Credit Associations of
Citizens" adopted by Parliament in February 1998 and by the Financial Prudential Rules for SCAs based
on a decision of GOM of September 1998. The principal features of the legal framework are as follows:
(a) The minimum number of members of an SCA is 10; (b) SCAs do not distribute dividends in cash to
their members and all net profits are transferred to reserves; (c) The maximum amount of loans to one
member cannot exceed 10 percent of the total amount of outstanding loans; (d) The SCA has to create a
loan insurance reserve fund, deposited in an account in a commercial bank, equal to not less than 6 percent
of the amount of outstanding short-term loans and 8 percent of outstanding long-term loans.
6. Loans by SCAs to their members are unsecured and the legal framework does not provide for a mutual
guarantee of members. It does not permit lending in excess of the limit mentioned in para. 5 (c) unless the
loan is secured by collateral provided by the borrowing member.
7. The State Supervisory Service (Board) created by GOM pursuant to the Law on SCAs supervises the
operations of SCA and is the authority to issue, suspend or cancel the licenses of SCAs.
Creation of Savings and Credit Associations
8. By March 2001, about four years after the establishment of the first SCA, the total number of SCAs
was close to 300, of which about 290 are functioning; about 10 licenses have been suspended or cancelled,
- 124-



generally because of violation of the prudential rules. The total number of members is nearing 26,000. It
is worth noting that about 200 SCAs were created and licensed in the last two years, 1999 and 2000.
9. Two NGOs, The Moldovan M:icrofmance Alliance (MMA), and the Rural Development Center (RDC)
are actively engaged in the creation of SCAs including the initial training of members and elected bodies,
and the provision of post-creation technical assistance and advice in management, accounting and other
fields related to the activities of SCAs. Both NGOs are donor-financed. MMA, which continued the
activities started by FIDES, is financed by GTZ, Open Society Institute, Women's World Banking, the
Soros Foundation and others. RDC, established by RFC, and spun off in 1999, is financed by CNFA.
Financing of SCAs
10. The Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) created under the First Rural Finance Project (see para 4
above) was established in late 1997 and started lending to SCAs under the Project in February 1998. It is
currently the principal financing source for SCAs, providing, with Project funds, about 70 percent of total
SCA financing. (see para 13 belovw)
I 1. A positive development which was not envisaged in the original Project design, was the participation of
two commercial banks, at their own initiative and with their own resources, in the financing of the SCA
system.
12. Agroindbank, the leading Moldovan commercial bank, started financing of SCAs in 1998 and in 1999,
Agrindbank financed 58 SCAs with a total amount of MDL 6.5 million and its market share increased
significantly in 2000, providing loans totaling about MDL 15.0 million to 120 SCAs. Lending terms and
interest rates are equal or similar to those of RFC.
13. The other commercial bank that started to finance SCAs was Fincombank, which provided loans to 17
SCAs in 1998, based on a guarantee agreement with Austria's Raiffeisenbank and the Open Society
Institute, which covered 80 percent of the lending risks. Although portfolio performance was satisfactory,
Fincombank discontinued its participation in 1999.
Rural Finance Corporation (RFC)
14. As mentioned in para 4 above, the Rural Finance Corporation was created at the end of 1997 under the
first IDA financed Rural Finance Project to channel Project funds to the SCA system. RFC is a non-bank
fnancial institution, registered under the law as an open joint stock company. Currently GOM still holds
about 16 percent of voting shares; tlie remaining shares are held by SCAs. To become eligible for
borrowing from RFC, each SCA has to purchase no less than 4 shares costing MDL 50 each. Total paid
up share capital as of December 31., 2001 was MDL 234,800 (equivalent to about US$ 18,000). An
assumption, included in the Project design, that each SCA would invest US$ 500 in the share capital of
RFC did not materialize.
15. Loans to SCAs by RFC are finniced from the Credit under the Rural Finance Project. The first US$
2.0 million equivalent were on-lent Iby GOM to RFC as a subordinated loan, repayable over 35 years
including a 10-year grace period, bearing IDA interest rate of 0.75 percent per annum. The remaining
Credit funds are repayable over 20 years, including a grace period of five years. The current interest rate,
payable to the Ministry of Finance on this portion of the loan is 19 percent per annum.
16. Lending operations by RFC to SCAs started in February 1998 and during that year total sub-loan
- 125 -



disbursements amounted to about MDL 3.0 million for 29 SCAs with a total membership of 1,437.
Lending grew rapidly in 1999 to about MDL 10.0 million for 95 SCAs and further accelerated in 2000
when total lending amounted to about MDL 30.0 million to 159 SCAs with a total membership of about
14,500. Lending in 2001 is projected at about MDL 56.0 million for about 205 SCAs with 21,000
members. By end-2001, sub-loan disbursements were about MDL 51.1 million for 200 SCAs. Loans to
SCA are short-term, for a period up to one year, generally repayable in January. Accounts indicate that
many loans are repaid before the agreed maturity date.
17. Currently, interest rates charged by RFC to SCAs are 24 percent, based on the interest rate of 19
percent payable by RFC on the subsidiary loan from MOF plus a margin of 5 percent for RFC. SCAs add
between 4 to 5 percent to the rate payable to RFC, charging ultimate beneficiaries up to 30 percent per
annum. Loan repayment to RFC is satisfactory; however, there have been minor defaults in on-time
repayment of loans by members to SCAs.
18. RFC audited financial statements for December 31, 2000 show an outstanding short-term loan
portfolio of about MDL 13.5 million, liquid assets of MDL 22.5 million and total assets of MDL 36.6
million. However, given the seasonality in lending, it should be noted that the amount of the outstanding
short-term loan portfolio grew from MDL 9.4 million in January 2000 to a peak of MDL 30.3 million in
June 2000, and gradually declined, because of loan repayments, to MDL 13.5 million by December 2000.
This explains the large balance of liquid assets at end-year. By the end of March, 2001, the outstanding
loan balance had already grown to MDL 47.0 million and to MDL 51.0 million by mid-April. Because of
the interest-free subordinated loan, mentioned above, profitability of RFC is high and accumulated retained
earnings, net of taxes, amount to MDL 4.7 million.
Prudential Rules for Lending to SCAs
19. The current prudential rules for lending to SCAs are briefly summarized below. To be eligible for
borrowing, the following requirements must be met inter alia by the SCA.
(a) The SCA is registered with the Ministry of Justice and has a state registration certificate.
(b) The SCA has the respective activity license from the State Supervisory Service.
(c) The SCA strictly observes the prudential rules established for SCAs concerning the capital
adequacy, liquidity, balance of maturities of assets and liabilities, risk sharing ratios,
provisioning at the moment the loans are received, and guarantees observance of these rules
during the entire period of the loan.
(d) The SCA has received a minimum training from MMA, RFC, or any other
non-governmental organization acceptable to Intemational Development Association.
(e) The SCA has an office with minimum necessary equipment.
(f) The SCA keeps accounting records according to established standards.
(g) The loan application and other documents are prepared in conformity to RFC standards.
(h) The SCA guarantees submission of all information requested by RFC at any moment.
(i) The SCA guarantees free access of authorized RFC staff to the SCA's records at all times.
20. The average loan amount per member lent by RFC to an SCA cannot exceed MDL 2,500 in the first
year of operation of the SCA, MDL 3,500 in the second year, MDL 4,500 in the third year and MDL
5,500 thereafter. The maximum loan amount cannot exceed MDL 15,000 for an individual member and
MDL 21,000 for a family. Members who have not repaid their loans on time shall not be eligible for
borrowing in the following year. An SCA cannot be granted new loans before full repayment of any
existing loans. The total amount of loans to one SCA shall not exceed 10 percent of the total RFC loan
- 126 -



portfolio.
Mobilization of Savings by SCAs
21. Since inception, insufficient attention has been paid by the NGO engaged in the creation and
development of the SCA system, by the National Federation of SCAs or by RFC to promote the
mobilization of savings or to link financing to the internal generation of resources. Only some 25 SCAs
have started to attract savings from members and the total balance of savings mobilized by Decernber 31,
2000 was about MDL 170,000 equivalent to US$ 13,000 or 0.3 percent of the amount borrowed by SCAs
from financial institutions in 2000. llowever, the total equity of 293 SCAs at end of 2000 amounted to
MDL 9.3 million, equivalent to 20 percent of borrowings.
Financing of SCA System under FISP
22. The SCA system is growing anct additional financing will be required for the new SCAs to be
established after 2001 and for new members joining existing SCAs.
23. Under the proposed micro-finance component of the Project, funds will be allocated for the SCA
system. However, major emphasis will be placed on savings mobilization and shared financing between
SCAs and lending institutions. Project funds will be made available to any eligible PFI interested and
willing to participate in the financing of SCAs.
24. In addition to the provision of financing, the Project will focus on the strengthening of the State
Supervisory Service (SSB) to ensure that SCAs strictly comply with all existing rules and regulations and
to safeguard the rights of depositors. The number of staff of SSB will increase, intensive training and
technical assistance will be provided and provisions will be made that would ensure regular on-site
inspections of SCAs at least once every two years.
- 127 -



Additional Annex 19: Summary of Social Assessment
MOLDOVA: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Background
Two quantitative surveys and one qualitative social assessment (SA) were completed as part of project
preparation, by a Team consisting of Moldovan NGO members led by the Team Director, Vasile
Munteanu, under the supervision of the World Bank Social Scientist, Hermine G. De Soto. Stakeholders
were surveyed extensively during a GAP Study of, primarily, a rural support services component
(December 1998/January 1999), and were consulted again during the Social Assessment (May-August
2000) and the Baseline Farm Survey (October-November 2000).
The SA was conducted to help project managers develop the project to fit the needs of local rural residents
in the project area, thereby increasing retums on investment and enhancing sustainability. The SA aimed to
understand and express the needs, aspirations, and social and economic constraints and opportunities of
rural people in Moldova, including levels and sources of income, living standards, consumption pattems,
access to goods and services, as well as standard social and demographic characteristics.
This annex discusses the objectives and scope of the SA and the Baseline Survey, the combined findings of
the SA and the Baseline Survey and implications for the project.
Social Assessment
Two research methods were used to gather data to answer the questions:
i)     Focus Groups: A total of 120 rural inhabitants participated in the focus groups. Focus group
discussions provided qualitative information on agricultural information flow, demographics, and social
and economic conditions focusing on aspects related to: cultivation patterns, access to markets, costs of and
access to agricultural inputs, access to information, income & expenditures, village infrastructure,
perception of reforms in the rural areas, and participation.; and
ii)    In-Depth Interviews: A total of twenty in-depth interviews were carried out with representatives of
the rural population in 10 communities. The questions focused on the perception of reforms, access to
information, and communication and information patterns. This methodology was used to gather more
input on social aspects and to assess the responsibilities, capabilities and practices of existent groups, their
relationships with the rest of the conmmunity, and their opinions on the introduction of participatory
management practices.
Baseline Survey
The Baseline Survey, which focused on the new reality generated by the ongoing changes in the rural
sector, was undertaken as a first step in the development of the agricultural assistance program strategy for
Moldova. The survey was conducted in October-November 2000 in 80 rural communities from 14 districts
representing all counties ("judets"). The survey covered 350 farm managers and 367 rural households-a
total of 717 respondents.
Social Assessment and Baseline Survey Findings
- 128 -



The respondents are faced with several major challenges, such as insufficient income, lack of employment,
lack of access to utilities and impaid salaries. Generally, the majority of respondents perceive living
standards as being at or even lower than the subsistence level. According to the Baseline Survey, electricity
is practically the only utility that rural households enjoy (98% of respondents). Running water, gas, central
heating, sewage, and street lighting are not available in 60-80% of households. Almost all income received
from farming (80%) is.used for faimily needs. Regardless of the findings, Moldovan private farmers remain
relatively optimistic about the future: 36% expect a definite improvement.
Below is the brief description of tlie SA findings, as they relate to specific Project Components:
Rural Business Developmen,t Component
*   Rural population. The shurp difference in land holdings between individual farms (some 500-2000
ha; most 10 ha), corporate farms (100 to 1,000 ha), and rural households (3 ha) is reflected in the
fairly strong concentration of land in the largest farms.
* Demand for group formation. All individual respondents consider that a method of acquiring
economic stability is land consolidation, which implies group formation.
*   Constraints. The main reasons for not changing the status to private farmers are: age and health
(65%), shortage of capital (52%), and aversion to risk in a highly uncertain environment.
*   Social (Group) Bonds. A very positive finding is that most rural inhabitants understand that they
themselves, rather than the state, must solve the problems they face and they are favorably
disposed towards joining associations. People are willing to associate if necessary to solve various
problems, thus, increasing the degree of cohesion in these communities.
*   Summary. Farmers involved in farm organizations enjoy a considerably better economic situation
than those farmiing on their own. Therefore, farmers comprehend the advantages of group
formation
Rural Advisory Support Services Component
*   Major problems. The SA revealed that the new landowners suffer from lack of information
regarding prices, market requirements, access to capital, etc.
*   Demand. Farmers are interested in agricultural training and advisory services.
*   Access to Markets.  Access to markets is the first priority of Moldovan farmers. On average,
farms sell more than 40% of their output.
*   Constraints. Lack of market information; lack of proper farm machinery and inputs; inadequate
harvest, storage, grading, packaging, and processing equipment and facilities; little skills to
perform marketing research and investment planning; private owners and neighbors do not
normally associate for the purpose of deciding what crop to plant in order to market it together, the
main reason being small-scale farming..
* Summary. Small farmers and rural entrepreneurs have virtually no organizations or infrastructure
to serve their needs or articulate their interests.
Rural Finance Component
*   Credit Expenence. In 2000, 40% of farms contracted loans. Larger farms generally report a
higher frequency of borrowing and larger loans than smaller farms, and borrowed from financial
institutions in the form of trade credit from marketers and suppliers. The smaller individual farms,
on the other hand, did not have access to trade credit, but borrowed heavily from informal sources
(relatives, frends, and neighbors). Extremely few rural households have experience with
- 129 -



commercial credits. The respondents were fully aware of the importance of loan repayment.
Respondents in the survey strongly expressed the need for assistance in preparing business plans
and managing farm finances.
*   Credit demand. Among farm organizations 70% intend to borrow in the future. Of the farms that
borrowed in 2000, 80% expect to continue borrowing in the future, and of the farms that did not
borrow in 2000, 65% intend to start borrowing. 80% of respondents reported borrowing for farm
inputs and less than 15 % of farms reported borrowing for non-agricultural activities or purchase
of capital stock. As for rural households, about 20% of respondents intend to borrow in the future
and for 60% out of these 20% borrowing will be a new experience. These future loans will be used
mainly to purchase capital assets, finance the working capital, and invest in non-fanning activities.
*   Constraints. The main obstacles for applying for rural credits are:
* high interest rates
* term structure of loans
* typically small loan size
* lack of reliable information
*   low evaluation of collateral
*   lack of trust in financial institutions
* Summary. The survey strongly highlighted a number of problems in the countryside and
demonstrated that the rural finance component will be beneficial for the rural population. Demand
is great among various stakeholders; people are favorably disposed towards using credit for
productive purposes, and lending to SCAs using social collaterals is successful, but major gaps
remain in the production/consumption cycle. The newly formed farmers' organizations and
agribusiness clients lack the credit history normally required by the banks and, therefore, a special
credit line and training would be beneficial.
Important conclusion. The SA revealed that the rural population needed to be assisted in various aspects
of their agricultural activities in order to succeed. Therefore, all the components of the project should be
closely interrelated, filling in the gaps and leading towards strengthening the capacities of the beneficiaries
and at the same time towards establishing a strong agricultural infrastructure.
Project Implications
The Social Assessment produced a number of important results that have implications for the project
design, many of which  have already been incorporated into the project; others will shape the group
training and support activities and provide the basis for social monitoring. The implications are discussed
in terms of the "four pillars" of social assessment: context and social development issues, stakeholders and
participation, institutional analysis and monitoring and evaluation.
I.     Social Issues. The components of the project are designed to reduce inequity and social exclusion
by increasing social capital, strengthening organizational capacity (by empowering grassroots
organizations), and improving governance.
*   Organizational Capacity and Social Capital. There are virtually no organizations in Moldova to
serve the interests of small farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The creation of small-scale farm
organizations and agribusinesses supported by advisory services will strengthen the organizational
capacity in rural areas.
- 130-



* Equitv. Inequity has incr-ased in the rural areas with independence, the dissolution of the sovkhoz
and kolkhoz, and the transfornation and/or collapse of many of the enterprises serving the large
farms. The Project will decrease inequity by empowering small farmers to associate and generate
higher income; by providing information about market, production, rural credit and agricultural
procedures directly to farrners; and by providing access to credit to farmers and entrepreneurs who
currently have no access. Access to all project components will be equitable, transparent and
consistent, based on well-defined eligibility criteria rather than position and relationships.
*   Social Inclusion. The project will significantly increase social inclusion by concentrating
specifically on assisting small-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The currently excluded
groups will have access to information, training and credits.
*   Governance. The group lbrmation and training process will emphasize the importance of group
bonds and shared responsibility.
*   Gender. Access and use ol project components will be monitored for gender differences, and group
formation and training programs will be adjusted to meet gender-related demands as they emerge.
II.    Stakeholders and Participation. RISP has a number of stakeholders, including individual and
group farmers, agribusiness organizations, SCAs, Rural Finance Corporation ( RFC), and various
officials.
*   Primary Stakeholders.  RISP primary beneficiary stakeholders are small-scale farmers and
agribusinesses, commercial banks, and RFC. Small-scale farmers and agribusinesses directly
benefit from the project. As main institutional beneficiaries, RFC and commercial banks will
obtain financial resources to operate and technical support to strengthen their capacity to provide
credit to farmers and rural entrepreneurs in a manner that is financially sound and sustainable.
*   Other Stakeholders. Officials at different levels, from the central government to villages, strongly
support project objectives. Other groups, primarily local NGOs will complement the role of the
project. Input and machinery suppliers see themselves both as beneficiaries, whose interests are
served by increasing the quality and quantity of agricultural production and cash flows in rural
areas, and as competitors who currently profit from in-kind seasonal loans to producers. The staff
of the regulatory state agencies and lawyers will profit from the project's procedures since they will
get direct feedback from the grassroots organizations. Finally, SCAs are likely to increase in
number and assume more important roles as the result of project interventions.
*   Participation. RISP is a complex project and stakeholders will be participating at various levels
and stages. All components of the project are demand-driven; thus, available information to realize
the potential demand is crucial. The project participation strategy will consist of five elements,
which are described below:
1.     Remove constraints.
2.     Involve agencies/leaders that the rural population trusts.
3.     Make information available.
4.     Train and mobilize prospective clients.
5.     Monitor progress and address emerging issues.
III.   Institutional Analysis. A central goal of the project is to help develop efficient institutions and
organizations to sustain project activities at all levels, from the national networks to village groups and
individuals, and help improve their govemance.
CAPMU will focus on two essential tasks:
- 131 -



*   Develop links to internal and external resources.
*   Increase institutional capacity.
RFIs and RFC will become more effective by focusing on the following tasks:
* Remove internal obstacles; and
* Reduce obstacles mentioned by clients.
The Project will contribute to developing institutional capacity of all stakeholders by:
*   Supporting the formation, management and coordination of the viable farmers' groups and new
agribusiness enterprises;
*   The participation of local NGOs and rural leaders in promoting farmer groups' activities;
*   Development of community-driven initiatives to identify priority problems;
* Assisting the beneficiaries to establish legal status thus reducing the restrictive regulatory measures
related to markets;
* Providing informational and training support to assist them with the management and the technical
skills required to help them carry out their responsibilities;
*   Establishment of a market infrastructure from producers to processors and export agencies.
IV.    Social Impact Monitoring. Participatory Monitoring of the project's development indicators and
feedback from the public and other beneficiaries will be continuous, with progress reports submitted
quarterly. Indicators relevant to social development outcomes will include:
* The number of rural businesses created or strengthened and the number of their members;
* The willingness and success of communities in taking responsibility for the rural development
systems;
* The measures taken to improve or build agricultural market facilities;
* Beneficiary satisfaction with the agricultural services financed under the project;
* The level of self-financing and long-term sustainability of the services provided under the project;
* The increased/decreased access to other resources, information or opportunities for groups rather
than individuals;
* The impact on household income;
* The number of private farmers and rural entrepreneurs that had access to credits and their
successful utilization;
*   The progress from group to individual lending over time.
- 132 -



Additional Annex 20: GEF Agricultural Pollution Control Project Concept Note
MOLDOVA: RUFtAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Objectives
The overall objective of the Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) is to reduce nutrient
(N&P) pollution from agricultural sources in Moldova to the Danube River and Black Sea. In
support of this objective, the project will assist the Govemment of Moldova to: (i) promote the
adoption of environmentally-friendly practices in crop and livestock production and in rural
agro-industries that contribute to nutrient pollution, including wetland and integrated watershed
management; (ii) strengthen national policy, regulatory and institutional capacity for agricultural
nutrient pollution control; and (iii) promote a broad public awareness campaign and replication
strategy. The Project would be a camponent of the US$30million IDA-funded Rural Investment and
Services Project (RISP) and will mainstream environmental concems into agricultural practices. The
proposed project would also assist the Govemment of Moldova in harmonizing its legislative
framework with relevant European lJnion (EU) directives and in honoring its intemational
commitments to reduce nutrient loads to the Danube River and Black Sea.
Sector Context and Background
Since independence, Moldova's agnrcultural sector has undergone significant structural changes.
Former collective enterprises and farms have been reorganized into smaller farming associations and
private farms. However, the new faimers and owners lack farrning experience, technical skills and
financial resources for sustainable farm management. The absence of on-farm environmental
management is exacerbating the erosion process as well as nutrient runoff into the country's
waterbodies. Currently, more than 400,000ha of the private farms and farming associations are
moderately or highly degraded. The large cattle, pig and poultry farms have been mostly dismantled,
and the majority of livestock is now Icept privately in small and medium holdings. However, the
continued lack of efficient manure management practices is having significant implications for
groundwater pollution and drinking water supply for rural settlements in Moldova. Samples analysed
from about 70% of shallow wells which are the main source of drinking water supply for rural
communities revealed nitrogen concentrations in excess of the maximum acceptable levels. (UN/ECE.
The Republic of Moldova: Environment Performance Review. Geneva, 1998)
Agricultural non-point source nutrient pollution is the most important contributor of water pollution in
Moldova. Other sources are inadequately managed municipal and industrial wastewater treatment
plants. Nutrient run-off to the rivers items from: (i) environmentally unsustainable crop and soil
management practices; (ii) over-exploitation and illegal cutting of forests, leading to the destruction of
forest belts and buffer strips; (iii) inappropriate management, storage and disposal of animal manure
and waste; (iv) over-grazing; and (v) imismanagement of wetlands. Soil erosion washes away an
estimated 10 million tons of fertile soil annually. From the Prut River basin alone, approximately 12.5
thousand tons of nitrogen and 1.5-2.0 thousand tons of phosphorus are being discharged each year.
Armual run-off from manure is estimated at 10.5 thousand tones for nitrogen and 2.5 thousand tones
for phosphorus (Nutrient Balancer for Prut River Basin Project, 1994).
Agricultural pollution, together with over-fishing, mismanagement of game sources, poaching,
draining of wetlands, excessive tree cutting have also led to the degradation of biodiversity, which has
reached a severe level in the Lower Piut River Basin. Hydropower stations built upstream have
- 133-



exacerbated the problem by changing the site conditions in the area. Native flora and fauna species
are severely threatened and, in some cases, facing extinction.
Government Commitments
Agricultural pollution control and wetland ecosystem protection are considered priorities by the
Government of Moldova as documented in the following: (i) National Program of Strategic Actions
for the Environmental Protection for 1995-2020 (1995); (ii) National Environmental Action Plan for
1996-1998 (1996), which included a program of activities to reduce or prevent pollution through
better environmental management and sustainable use of natural resources; (iii) Governmental
Strategy of Sustainable Development of the Republic of Moldova (2000) which emphasised sound
agricultural practices, restoration and rational use of natural resources, elimination of pollution
sources, water quality control, and waste management as national priorities, and (iv) Biodiversity
Conservation Strategy and Action Plan (2001). Moldova has committed itself intemationally to
reducing nutrient loads to the Danube River and the Black Sea from its territory. It is a signatory to a
number of international conventions, including the Convention on Co-operation for the Protection and
Sustainable Use of the Danube River (Sofia, 1994), Convention on Protection and Use of
Transboundary Water Courses and International Lakes (Helsinki, 1992), the Convention on Biological
Diversity (Rio de Janeiro, 1992), etc. In terms of regional agreements, Moldova is party to (i)
Statement on Lower Danube Green Corridor signed by Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine and Moldova, on
5 June, 2000, in Bucharest, Romania; (ii) Protocol on the Establishing of the Transboundary
Biosphere Reserve of Danube Delta and Scientific Reserve "Prutul de Jos", signed on 27 July, 2000
between Romania and Moldova.
Project Description
The project, to be implemented over 5 years, will support the following activities:
Component 1: Promotion of environmentally-friendly agricultural practices. Activities under
this may include crop rotation, conservation tillage, efficient manure management practices,
promotion of organic farming, nutrient management, buffer strips along rivers, and soil and water
quality monitoring. Farmers would be offered training in these techniques.
Entrepreneurs/enterprises who borrow under RISP (individual farmers, farmers organizations,
co-operatives and agricultural processors) and wish to invest in environmentally sustainable
agricultural practices, would receive a grant from the GEF fund to offset the incremental cost of
nutrient reduction investments. The eligibility criteria for the provision of GEF grant will be
primarily to support those activities that will reduce the nutrient loads in water bodies. This
component would also prepare and implement a wetland and integrated watershed management
plan for one of the tributaries of the Prut River in the Lower Prut Basin with the objective of
reducing nutrient loads into the Prut River through nutrient filtration and reduction of the erosion
of nutrient containing soil, as well as biodiversity conservation.
Component 2: Strengthening National Policy, Regulatory and Institutional Capacity. This
activity would focus on strengthening the national legislative, regulatory and institutional capacity
of the government of Moldova for meeting European Union standards in agricultural pollution
control. It would include assistance to the Moldovan Government, notably the Ministries of
Agriculture and Environment, in harmonising local and national legislation with EU's directives
on environmental pollution control, including the Nitrates Directive (91/676/EEC) and Dangerous
Substances Directive (76/464/EEC). A Code of Good Agricultural Practices would be developed
- 134 -



based on codes developed for Europe and elsewhere. These activities would increase capacity of
the government for addressing agricultural pollution control measures and honouring its
international commitments to reduce pollution to the Danube River and Black Sea.
Component 3: Public Awareness Activities and Replication Strategy. A broad local and
nationwide public informat:ion campaign will be undertaken to disseminate the benefits of
proposed GEF-funded acti vities and achieve replicability of the same. At the local level, the main
audience will be the direct stakeholders of the project (local and county officials, farmers,
community groups and NCOs). The objective of the activity will be to familiarize the population
and help induce the behavioral changes necessary to the success of the project (soil erosion
prevention, use of manure management practices, respecting the Code of Good Agricultural
Practices, etc.). The efforts at national level would concentrate on institutions and groups
(Government agencies, national environmental or professional associations, academia, NGOs,
etc.) and the population at large that may develop and build a general good-will for the project and
its benefits, and raise the interest of potential future clients, including agricultural enterprises
nation-wide. This will be a.chieved, in part, through national and regional workshops, field trips,
visits, training, publication in international agriculture and environmental joumals and other
similar activities that will promote replication of project activities in other similar areas of
Moldova as well as Black Sea riparian countries. The project will work closely with ongoing
similar efforts in Georgia, Bulgaria, and Turkey and the exchange of experiences will result in
significant reductions in the nutrient loads entering the Danube River and Black Sea.
Component 4: Project Management Unit. A Project Management Unit is being established
under RISP. The GEF proj ect would provide support for hiring relevant staff to implement APCP
activities under the overall iumbrella of the RISP PIU.
Global Environmental Benefits
The proposed project's objective of reducing non-point sources of pollution from agriculture is
consistent with GEF Operational Program Number 8, "Waterbody Based Operational Program",
which focuses mainly on seriously threatened water-bodies and the most important trans-boundary
threats to their eco-systems. Under the Program, priority is accorded to projects that are aimed at
"changing sectoral policies and activities responsible for the most serious root causes or needed to
solve the top priority trans-boundary environmental concems".
The proposed project would help reduce barriers to farmners' adoption of environmentally-friendly
agricultural practices and would also help restore the wetland ecosystem and its biological diversity in
the "Lower Prut Lakes", a Ramsar Site. The project would provide an opportunity for the GEF to be
a catalyst for actions to bring about the successful integration of land and water resource management
practices. Without GEF assistance, Moldova might undertake a series of small ad hoc activities in
different parts of the country to address the pollution problem and in response to EU requirements for
environmental concems in agriculture. However, this approach would lack a comprehensive
inter-sectoral mechanism to coordinate the financing, program efforts and geographical targeting of
activities. GEF funding would provide essential resources to accelerate the program, to demonstrate
the need for a holistic approach to control nutrient loads into the Black Sea and to undertake a public
outreach progran for the project's success. The APCP would strive to build synergies between this
project, RISP as well as other projects with similar objectives.
Project Costs
- 135 -



The estimated cost of APCP is estimated at US$5.0million which would cover the incremental cost of
nutrient reduction interventions. Additional co-financing would be provided by the Government of
Moldova and local beneficiaries in cash and kind. Other donor support would also be explored during
project preparation.
Benefits
The proposed project is the first instance where the Government of Moldova will mainstream
environmental considerations in agricultural practices. The synergy of such an approach will bring
about greater benefits globally, regionally and locally vis-a-vis independent, discrete agricultural and
environmental projects.
Intemationally, benefits will accrue through: (i) a continued reduction in the discharge of nutrients into
Danube River and Black Sea and the accompanying improvements in the local and Black Sea water
quality; (ii) broad-based stakeholder participation that will increase public awareness and
demand-driven approaches for protecting the Black Sea;(iii) improving habitat for migratory birds and
a variety of endangered species; and (iv) sequestering carbon in the grasslands, cropland and forests.
Nationally, the country will benefit: (i) through improvements in quality of ground and surface waters;
(ii) better maintenance of productive ecosystems and critical natural habitats in the freshwater,
estuarine and near shore waters along the Black Sea coast; (iii) improved agricultural productivity
through better agricultural practices; (iv) progress towards compliance with EU Directives; and (v)
increased capacity building of local institutions such as EPI and PHD.
The Project will also build capacity in the CAPMU to undertake the environmental reviews and ensure
that the mitigation measures are followed. As a result, potential environmental impacts will be avoided
or minimized by applying a set of good practices directed to farmers through the advisory Components
of the RISP, such as providing guidance to clients on environmental and agricultural sustainability
matters when advising on agricultural production activities.
Locally: (i) at the farm level, additional income from effective use of organic waste (manure as
fertilizer), crop rotations, organic produce, and improved livestock grazing practices; (ii) in the crop
sector, outcomes will include improved production efficiency through low input use and better farm
management; (iii) in the health sector, there will be improvements in health and sanitation as there will
be an improvement in the drinking water and general hygiene of the villages; and (iv) through
terrestrial and aquatic habitat enhancement, increased populations of birds and fish species of local
economic and social importance.
Value Added of GEF Support in the Project
The proposed project would help reduce barriers to farmers' adoption of environmentally-friendly
agricultural practices and would also help restore the wetland ecosystem and its biological diversity in
the Lower Prut Lakes, a Ramsar Site. The project would provide an opportunity for the GEF to be a
catalyst for actions to bring about the successful integration of land and water resource management
practices. Without GEF assistance, Moldova might undertake a series of small ad hoc activities in
different parts of the country to address the pollution problem and in response to EU requirements for
environmental concerns in agriculture. However, this approach would lack a comprehensive
inter-sectoral mechanism to coordinate the financing, program efforts and geographical targeting of
activities. GEF funding would provide essential resources to accelerate the program, to demonstrate
- 136-



the need for a holistic approach to control nutrient loads into the Black Sea and to undertake a public
outreach program for the project':s success. The APCP would strive to build synergies between RISP
and other projects with similar objectives.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The Ministry of Environment, Construction and Territorial Development will have the main
responsibility for implementation of the project in full collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture.
The proposed CAPMU will establish a special implementation unit with specialized technical
expertise to implement this project.
- 137 -



- 138 -



MO LDOVA
RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
RURAL FINANCE COMPONENT
o MOLDOVA-AGROINDBANK                 a   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
o BANCA SOCIALA                          JUDET CAPITALS
0 MOLDINDCONBANK
O VICTORIABANK                        6   NATIONAL CAPITAL
o RURAL FINANCE CORPORATION               JUDET BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RURAL ADVISORY SERVICES COMI'ONENT
* SERVICE PROVIDER CENTER
O LOCAL CONSULTANT
0  10 D 20  30  40  50
RURAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
KILOMETERS
O RURAL BUSINESSES
_ RURAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT MOBILE TEAMS
27-00'       27'30'      28R001       28-30'       29-00'       2930'      30-00'
48'30'                  .1    MoichiIiev-                                                48'30'-
f . v '_.~~~~~ Po >flski
) ,    /\_  !  '~' oOcni o
<.       ' Briceni  0  0  0
OEDINET.COR.IT  0ous,eni  o I
~o         0    So)o
t0000 * Wt:               w5       '-v-               U K R A I N E
\ 0     o        aD ro d0 0   o R o       9    , > 3                         4R -00'
0~~~~~~
'40p     S Qc7,CA  Camencc it 
of       00-          $~Floqi  000   !/0
C "Costesti  0                                   /
.o.    es ,t,........30 Idaneitio .
GlodenicO          o   O             $ R,Rbnita
BALT;              LNI0U 0  i34  Rezinfa 
'~~ oBoloAno o                              S~~0  o
oS ing ,Stogrei:  ORHE!
0                 0~~~~~ 
4r20'                                                 -~~~~~~~~J   e o   A. Ch  n   47'30'-
jTelenepti  *%oer~ 
i       --- Z-v     t,     O Orhei  -,
\5enI~~~~~ Ut.-Nl    I                         I .\ x   O) q.,v
0~~~~
j        r                 Dt +  asrbas:ari  
c     Canarop0     ,i          \DECriule ni,
Unghenif@    3                       Ieni6.Z  D j
o~ -Strabeni 0MJ NlAU)     'KDUBASARI
lud3mnionhabDlsfasofaySmtoyUorrremors0 SKIo  / whfBJ  c .  ,  ' rioropl
\N 0Nisporeni                              VI V  o  riCe,,g53i;
-00   \ j Q i  \ Chimau     K  R    I N          47600'
R    M    N RUSSIA           jEaon% 0 TNi '0
)oLZoso                o      0
0  HTncetio            0oTir qDl
S X   t  4E - reus r>   EEDERATION   @ r3Leuse h I           c'li a  n&rS C
0     000O0 o                (\ (6hin6)
1, LAPUSNA >_                0       Sooi
0               ~~~~~~0  
/0            00~
-46'30-                        ~ ~~~~~~                      ~~~~~Leovo  0-J
0 o    0
Cantemi   Conr.tc __   ; Op ,osorolbeasco
Cotmr,  (Gogdo) 
Thi, -op  ProA-d by Ahe Mop De.,go UnOd Th. Wbrid Soo.A.
Th. ..nd1.. -I., d .  A             00 --GA GA UZA..
ICAHUJL        0Ca
270O'       27~30'                    0U                         R    I   E4~0
~W~ERE  LAV 1A~             -4600'     ~~ 
00006                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAR'ACLIA
RUSSIAN              Ch     DA SOTa alia
POLAND   F   FEDERATION 
RE 7>   UKRAiNE      /'10
L  EfA ASe' ~Bac
-45'3E  GiSgiu   ReiiFo          0         '0~  930'     30'00'  A53,-






IMAGING
Report No.:         24025   MD
Type:     PAD



