                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 29985

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (PPFI-Q2690 TF-25806 TF-26118 IDA-36680 TF-52123 IDA-36681 TF-54222)

                                              ON A

                                            CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                    TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                          MOLDOVA

                                           FOR THE

                      RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT




                                         April 14, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
ECCU2

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective at ICR )

                             Currency Unit = Moldovan Leu (MDL)
                                      1 Leu = US$ 0.0840
                                      US$ 1 = MLD 11.90

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACSA    Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture
APC     Adaptable Program Credit
CAPMU   Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DA      Development Agency
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
GCL     General Credit Line
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GOM     Government of Moldova
LC      Local Consultant
LSDP    Letter of Sector Development Policy
MAIB    Moldova AgroIndBank
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
NBM     National Bank of Moldova
NFSCA   National Federation of Savings and Credit Associations
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAR     Portfolio at Risk
PFI     Participating Financial Institutions
PSC     Project Steering Committee
RFC     Rural Finance Corporation
RBD     Rural Business Development [Component]
SCA     Savings and Credit Association
SCL     Special Credit Line
SIDA    Swedish Development Agency
SP      Service Provider
SSB     State Supervisory Body
TACIS   Technical Assistance to Commonwealth of Independent States

                           Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director    Luca Barbone
                           Sector Manager     Benoit Blarel
                        Task Team Leader:     Pierre Olivier Colleye

                                              MOLDOVA
                       RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
    6. Sustainability                                                                19
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
    9. Partner Comments                                                              23
    10. Additional Information                                                       26
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
    Annex 8. Results of the Advisory Services Component                              38
    Annex 9. Results of the Rural Business Development Component                     40
    Annex 10. Results of the Rural Finance Component                                 41
    Annex 11. Beneficiary Surveys                                                    42
Map 31916R

Project ID: P060434                                                  Project Name: RURAL INVESTMENT AND
                                                                     SERVICES PROJECT
Team Leader: Pierre Olivier Colleye                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 26, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES                            L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q2690; TF-25806;
                            PROJECT                                                                  TF-26118; IDA-36680;
                                                                                                     TF-52123; IDA-36681;
                                                                                                     TF-54222
   Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General finance sector (74%); General industry and trade sector
                            (20%); Sub-national government administration (4%); Other social
                            services (2%)
                  Theme: Rural markets (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/11/2000                                     Effective: 08/30/2002                08/30/2002
     Appraisal: 04/26/2002                                         MTR: 09/15/2003                  09/15/2003
      Approval: 06/20/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:      DFID, SIDA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Paul G. Bermingham                             Roger Grawe
Sector Manager:                 Benoit Blarel                                  Laura Tuck
Team Leader at ICR:             Pierre Olivier Colleye                         Hoonae Kim
ICR Primary Author:             Anatol Gobjila; Sandra Broka;
                                Pierre-Olivier Colleye


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR

                               Quality at Entry:
                    Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The PAD stated Program's objective is to provide long-term support to accelerate agricultural recovery and
growth so that Moldova's agricultural sector can play its full role in providing the underpinnings for future
income growth and poverty reduction.

Within these broader goals, the main development objective of the Project was to foster post-privatization
growth in the agricultural sector by improving the access of new private farmers and rural businesses to
what they need to succeed ­legal ownership status, knowledge, know-how, and finance.

Background and Context

The Government of Moldova (GOM) requested IDA's support in designing and implementing the Rural
Investment and Services Program (Program), an Adaptable Program Credit (APC), to address multiple
issues facing Moldovan agriculture and rural livelihood. The request came following a period of mass land
privatization and restructuring of state owned and collective farm structures. The Rural Investment and
Services Project (RISP) represents the Phase I of the two-phase seven year Program.

Since independence in 1991, Moldova's state dominated agricultural sector has performed poorly, with a
decline in production, productivity, and exports, as a result of the rapid break-down of the system of
centralized direct and indirect subsidies, centralized input supply, and marketing of output. In addition to
the rapidly deteriorating internal and external factors, the stop and go pace of reforms, as well as indecision
of the authorities on the issue of land and farm privatization, have led to a perennial status of crisis in
agriculture. Not until 1997 were a number of farm restructuring pilots implemented throughout the country.
With the advent of a reformist Government in 1998, the land reform moved at an accelerated pace, reaching
its climax towards the middle of 2000. At the end of the process, the land (85 percent of all arable land)
and assets of around 1000 farms were privatized. Some 700,000 peasants benefited from the privatization,
emerging with individual land titles, debt free and having the freedom to choose their preferred form of
farming. These developments have provided an emerging platform for future recovery and growth of the
sector.

In the aftermath of land privatization and farm restructuring, the RISP was designed to address the most
immediate needs of the class of newly emerged private farmers, in a number of areas believed by
Government and the task team to be critical for further successful development of rural businesses:
knowledge, know-how, and finance.

Taking into account successful implementation of the project and the fast pace of disbursement, the IDA
Board approved a Supplemental Credit in the amount US$5 million in April 2004 for additional subloans
under the Special Credit Line.

At the time of preparation, the design of the APC and RISP I was based on the findings and
recommendations of the World Bank Agriculture Strategy for Moldova, drafted in 2000 and updated in
2002, the Government's Strategy for Agriculture and Agro-processing Development, and the World Bank
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Letter of Sector Development Policy (May 2002) and the
Memorandum of Understanding (December 2001) were negotiated as part of the preparation of the RISP I



                                                      - 2 -

Project and SACIII. It was assumed that the policy dialogue will be carried out within the framework of
SACIII and that RISP I would complement investment in the sector. The Program continues to be relevant
and current in the context of the final drafts of the Government's Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper and the Country Assistance Strategy for 2005-2008. Both documents outline areas which
the APC is tackling through its interventions.

Specific Project Objectives

While pursuing the main development objective as stated above, the project set out to reduce poverty by
creating income-earning opportunities and improving productivity through complementary technical
assistance and investment support. Specific support included: (a) solidifying private ownership of land and
other productive assets; (b) creating viable rural entrepreneurial, legal and organizational structures; (c)
establishing a private, agricultural support services system including advisory, input and output supply,
marketing, and business development support; and (d) establishing a self-sustaining rural finance system to
serve a large number of dispersed rural clients throughout the country.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during the course of project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following four components: (a) Rural Advisory Services Component; (b) Rural
Business Development Component; (c) Rural Finance Component; and (d) Project Management
Component. The Rural Finance Component had three sub-components: (i) General Commercial Credit
Line; (ii) Special Credit Line with a Matching Grant; and (iii) Institutional Capacity Development for
Rural Finance system.

The Rural Advisory Services Component provided demand driven advisory and information services to
farmers and rural entrepreneurs, by supporting the creation of a nationwide network of decentralized,
privately-owned, rural advisory Service Providers (SPs). The SPs were contracted through competitive
tendering and received training to provide pertinent information, knowledge and know-how to newly
established private farmers and rural entrepreneurs.        Services covered a range of topics including
economics, legal, finance, marketing, agronomic and other technical areas.            They also focused on
promoting the adoption of new technologies, to improve the competitiveness and profitability of primary
agricultural production.

The Rural Business Development Services Component supported the provision of business consulting
services by a pool of qualified local specialists (NGOs) to a range of farm and non-farm rural based
businesses. By providing advice on matters of formulation of ideas, business formation and registration,
implementation and operations, the component helped to facilitate access to the banking sector by first time
borrowing entrepreneurs with viable and sound business ideas.

The Rural Finance Component complemented the technical assistance and advice of the first two
components with credit lines to support existing farm and non-farm rural entrepreneurs through the general
credit line (GCL), first time borrowers through the special credit line (SCL), and small farmers through the
network of savings and credit associations (SCA).           The demand for these financial services and
disbursements were considerable. The initial project design had called for an IDA Credit of US$15.5
million. Because of a shortage of available IDA Funds, this amount was reduced at the time of appraisal to
just US$10.5 million. However, considering the successful implementation of the project and the fast pace
of disbursement, the IDA Board agreed to "restore" the original US$5 million in April 2004 in the form of



                                                      - 3 -

a Supplemental Credit, solely for this component, to bridge the financial needs until the second phase of the
project and allow more time for lessons to be learned before preparation of this second phase. The excellent
repayment rates of this component showed the success in building a system that allows to reach the poor
while maintaining a good portfolio quality.

The Project Management Component was implemented through the Consolidated Agricultural Projects
Management Unit (CAPMU), run by a professional team with considerable experience in IDA project
management. Having a single implementation unit to coordinate overall implementation of the project, with
responsibilities for two individual components contracted out (Rural Advisory Component and Rural
Business Development Component), allowed for stronger synergies to be achieved in the implementation of
the various component activities.

In addition, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was provided to support initial preparation activities,
including the early start-up costs associated with early operation of CAPMU, SPs, initial training, and
credit lines.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The RISP was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). However, the team rated quality at
entry as satisfactory, based on: (i) the consistency of Project objectives with the priorities for development
of the agricultural sector and poverty reduction in rural areas, as stated in the World Bank Agriculture
Strategy and the CAS, (ii) project design, which accounted for the implementing capacity of the institutions
involved.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
 The Project development objective of fostering post-privatization growth in the sector is being
 satisfactorily achieved through a series of outcomes of individual activities:

l Legally registered, self-owned and sustainable rural businesses created and developed;
l Advisory, extension and knowledge sharing system created at the national level;
l Government engaged in a policy dialogue to encourage a liberalized regime (e.g. consolidation of legal
    land ownership by farmers with recently secured property rights);
l Rural financial intermediation strengthened and mainstream commercial banks stimulated to lend to the
    rural sector.

 Legally registered, self-owned and sustainable rural businesses created and developed.
 Approximately 700 rural enterprises were created under the project, thanks primarily to funding
 from DFID for this component. For the first time, rural entrepreneurs gained access to a new type of
 support service as a result of the activities implemented under this theme. They benefited from very
 specific quality support, which encompassed advice on how to implement a business idea, assistance in
 registering new businesses, advice on how to start-up operations, secure bank financing, operate the
 business, market products, etc. Until the Project was implemented, these rural entrepreneurs suffered from
 a complete void of services beyond basic advisory information. Business skills were, and still are today,
 the least developed skills in rural areas. In addition, the project has contributed technical assistance for the



                                                      - 4 -

creation and consolidation of a significant technical capacity in a number of NGOs. Thanks to this
technical assistance, the participating NGOs were able to reach a level of proficiency sufficient to provide
rural business development services to more advanced clients, for a payment. This will ensure long term
sustainability of the Project activities, as these NGOs will continue to be present in the rural areas
supporting entrepreneurship.

Advisory, extension and knowledge sharing system created at the national level. With active
participation of the Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture (ACSA) and private consultants,
the quality and outreach of the advisory and extension services for farmers have been significantly
improved. Prior to the Project, the breakup of collective structures and the disappearance of centralized
services had left the newly privatized landowners without key support services. The country did not have a
systemic approach towards advisory and extension services in agriculture. Advice and extension were
offered by dispersed provider groups, mostly donor funded non-governmental organizations, but with
limited outreach and little coordination and exchange and sharing of information. In addition, these groups
covered areas of interest as determined by their respective donors, thus leaving many empty areas in the
advisory and extension thematic needs of the farmers. The Government now has an efficient system in
place, which allows not only for transfer of knowledge to farmers, but can also serve as a tool for national
level activities, e.g. vaccination, artificial insemination, and others.

Government engaged in sector policy discussions to ensure a reasonable level of liberization of the
sector. By linking the policy and investment operations, the Project helped maintain a reasonable level of
liberalization of the sector, in a policy environment which could be characterized as unstable. By
supporting private farmers, the Project had a mandate to enter into policy discussions with the
Government on matters which affected them. In its dialogue with the authorities, the team focused on
issues of agricultural trade, rationalization of subsidies, agricultural regulatory legislation, and land
relations. While not always successful, overall the policy dialogue between the two sides has contributed
to the situation where Moldovan private farmers can carry on their business mostly unhindered. In
addition, the Project contributed to ensuring a better understanding among farmers of their legal rights in
all relevant areas by dissemination of information in the farming community.

Rural financial intermediation strengthened and mainstream commercial banks stimulated to lend to
the rural sector. The major outcome of the RISP supported activities under this theme has been an
improved access of rural entrepreneurs and farmers to finance. The Project (i) provided long-term
investment credit resources through banks and short term working capital resources through SCAs, (ii)
extended technical assistance to PFIs to further improve rural banking practices, and (iii) increased the
pool of qualified potential rural clients for PFIs through the synergetic effect of the rural business
development activities. Another clear outcome of the project is the fact that commercial banks seem less
averse to lending to small-scale rural clients, and are more open to work with new groups of borrowers.

Overall Outcome/Impact Indicators

Agricultural production suffered considerably in 2003 due to adverse weather, resulting in a loss of 90%
of the wheat production. Figures for 2004 are not yet available but are expected to be substantially better.
Because of this "off-year", overall generalizations about impact on production or exports are difficult to
make.    However, over the life of the first phase of the Program, surveys indicate that 82.6% of
beneficiaries of advisory services increased their volume of crop production, 50.1% for animal
production, and that increases in yields in areas covered were 3% (sugar beet) to 43% (fruits) higher than
in non-covered areas. Over 700 enterprises were created and financed, 58.6% of which are non-farm
businesses, creating on average four jobs (42% of which are women), an average increase of 55% of


                                                      - 5 -

 salary income and generating approximately US$600 of revenues for the Government yearly from income
 taxes and social security. Direct cost of creating an enterprise was an average of one-time US$950
 investment per business created. Overall, Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) have increased their
 lending to rural clients by 39 percent as a share of their loan portfolio, which has doubled since the
 beginning of 2002, while maintaining an acceptable recovery rate of 96%.

 Phase II Performance Triggers. In addition, RISP has a set of performance triggers to be met before
 implementation of the APC Phase II can be launched. The status of the achievement of the triggers is in
 the Table below.

 As of December 31, 2004, or one year before the closing of the first phase, a majority of triggers have
 been met or are soundly on course to be met in due time.

 Status of achievement of triggers as of December 31, 2004:

                        Trigger                                                  Status at ICR
Continuous adherence to the priority legal, regulatory     While generally the policy environment remains
and agricultural policy reforms as articulated in the       somewhat unstable, the project has helped with policies
Letter of Sector Development Policy and the                 such as the land leasing law or by rolling back poorly
Memorandum of Understanding.                                designed reforms, continuing monitoring is required to
                                                            ensure that the Government does not increase its
                                                            administrative inteference in the sector through
                                                            measures which are not consistent with the LSDP or the
                                                            MOU.
Creation of fully developed legal statutes of private farms Over 80,000 rural entreprises registered since beginning
and rural entrepreneurs as measured by increasing           of the project.
numbers of registered private farms and rural businesses.
Efficient operation of Service Providers for advisory       Thirty-five Service Providers (SPs) with 447 local
services (minimum 35 SPs in operation and a minimum         consultants operating in rural areas, providing services
100 general contracts and 300 special contracts             to about 300,000 farmers (out of an estimated
implemented).                                               population of 600,000 farmers) and rural entrepreneurs,
                                                            with (i) 95 general contracts as of November 2004 and
                                                            an additional 35 expected by the end of February 2005
                                                            and (ii) 258 special contracts implemented by December
                                                            31, 2004 and another 100 expected by December 31,
                                                            2005. Trigger well underway to be met by closing date.
Effective rural business development services (minimum Four DAs in operation with five mobile teams each with
900 legal rural businesses created and registered and       a total of 1,605 service provision agreements on
minimum 3 Development Agencies (DA) operating with business development signed; 1,136 business plans
5 mobile teams each).                                       elaborated; 761 businesses are implementing their
                                                            business plans, including 510 (67.02%) individual and
                                                            251 group businesses (32.98%). Trigger well underway
                                                            to be met by closing date.
Successful integration of commercial banks into rural       Six PFIs, including five commercial banks and 1
financing as demonstrated by at least three fully           non-bank financial institution, actively participating in
functioning and active participating financial institutions the project with over 1,049 loans made (including 500
(PFIs).                                                     loans to Savings and Credit Associations and 384 loans
                                                            to first-time borrowers).
Sound portfolio as measured by a minimum 85%                Portfolio recovery rate in the PFIs: 96%.
recovery rate under the rural finance component.
Adequate regulatory and supervisory capacity of the State Portfolio at Risk 30 days in SCAs ­ 1.2%. Licensed



                                                         - 6 -

Supervisory Body (SSB) as demonstrated by licensed        SCAs typically in compliance with the prudential
SCAs being in full compliance with the prudential         regulations with default rates of less than 1.75%.
regulations with minimum default rates (less than 5%).    However, SSB supervisory capacity requires further
                                                          strengthening.
Disbursement of at least 75% of the first-phase credit    66% of the credit line allocation, including the
line operation.                                          supplemental credit, disbursed; 100% of the original
                                                         allocation disbursed.
Disbursement of at least at least 75% of the non-credit    68% of the non-credit line allocation disbursed.
line components or evidence that an equivalent quantity
and quality of technical assistance has been provided
and has resulted in enhanced local institutional
capacity.



4.2 Outputs by components:
I.       Rural Advisory Services (At Appraisal: US$2.95 million, including IDA financing of US$1.60
million; At ICR: US$ 2.43 million, of which IDA US$ 1.38 million)

 Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

 The project has successfully established a nationwide network of rural advisory Service Providers (SPs)
 who operate through regional and local consultants at village level, with coordination, supervision and
 technical support from the national Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture (ACSA), a
 private institution.

 ACSA was created in March 2001 with support from a TACIS project and started its operations under
 the RISP pilot phase (with PPF financing) in September 2001. As of December 31, 2004, there were 35
 Service Provider (SPs) teams operating in the extension network managed by ACSA, with a total of 110
 regional consultants and 337 local consultants, covering the entire country.

 The competitive tendering system introduced under the project for the contracting of SPs provides
 incentives for efficient delivery of advisory services. The majority of SPs performed well, having
 successfully provided extension services that beneficiaries consider valuable, according to recent impact
 assessment surveys. It is estimated that over 300,000 farmers (about half of Moldova's farmers) have
 been reached by SPs through a variety of over 540,000 extension activities, suggesting a high repeat rate.
 Most of them are small scale farmers (average of 3 ha or less), many of whom are at subsistence level and
 have the observed characteristics of poor households. Basic advice on agricultural and other technologies
 is essential in order to improve the living conditions of these small rural producers. Advice and
 information provided by SPs has already encouraged and helped some of these small farmers to develop
 their activities towards commercial scale, through land leases to gradually increase their farm size to
 10-20 ha and upwards. These and other emerging commercial farmers are expected to be the main source
 of agricultural growth in Moldova in the coming years. Annex 11 provides more information of the
 specific impact of the service providers on the development of rural businesses and farms. Awareness
 about ACSA and its SPs is high (33% of all farmers for ACSA and 70% of all farmers for SPs) among
 both users and non-users. Feedback from various beneficiary assessments suggests a high level of
 satisfaction. Ninety-two percent of ACSA beneficiaries consider ACSA as the main pertinent source of
 information and consultation, 67% indicate that ACSA is their first choice when they need
 agriculture-related information and 74% claim a willingness to pay for the services. According to a survey
 conducted in the middle of 2004, 62% of respondents expected their income to increase in 2004, vs. 53%
 in localities without consultants.


                                                       - 7 -

SP Operational Results. Consulting services provided under the component consist mainly of individual
verbal consultations, together with field visits, seminars and round-tables. Field visits account for an
increasing share of the services rendered by SPs and local consultants, a positive trend. Although the
number of individual consultations is larger, group consultations are most efficient and benefit over 50
percent of SPs clients. Advice on technology (66%) is dominant, followed by agricultural marketing
(13%), economic (11%) and legal (10%) issues. So far, SPs have concentrated on a fairly narrow range of
technical messages, mostly related to technological advice, which was required primarily for people with
limited experience in agriculture. However, the trends show that demand is becoming increasingly
complex, to include economics, financial management, marketing and legal matters. This positive trend
has led ACSA to form informal partnerships with other providers of services, such as the Development
Agencies to expand the range of services available to the beneficiaries. SIDA has also recently started to
provide support to 10 SPs to increase their capacity to advise on agricultural marketing. Such increased
collaboration is promising and should be encouraged.

Some 80 publications in various fields were prepared by ACSA from 2002 to date, based on surveys
conducted among SPs to assess the demand for additional topics to be covered in publications. The
publications are provided free of charge to all SPs and their local consultants and a range of other
institutions, with the balance sold at production cost. In order to improve the quality and efficiency of
services rendered by the SPs and ACSA, information materials have been increasingly adapted to the
diverse characteristics of their clients (e.g. subsistence or semi-subsistence farmers, emerging private
commercial farmers), a welcome development. ACSA and the Service Providers also hope to increase the
use of mass-media for extension activities, including the possibility to use the film-making capacity
developed under the Rural Business Development component of the RISP.

In addition to the standard package of general advisory services, field demonstrations aimed at introducing
new practices and technologies have been launched. These "special contracts" (SC) or "mini-projects" had
a an initial slow start, but have picked up after ACSA intensified its information and promotion of SCs
and simplified its approval procedures. As of December 31, 2004, ACSA had approved and supported
258 SCs. These cover a wide range of activities including agricultural activities (demonstration of
improved varieties of crops and technologies, establishment of rabbit breeding mini-farms, etc.) as well as
other topics (handicrafts, home processing of milk, training in accounting for family farms, training in
organization of rural tourism, etc.). Outside specialists are involved as necessary in the implementation of
these SCs, and it is estimated that thousands of rural producers participated in the field days and
demonstrations organized under SCs. As the activity has reached considerable scale, more will need to be
done to improve the M&E of the special contracts and their impact. In addition to small-scale SCs aimed
at demonstrating special new activities, larger scale SCs are foreseen for ACSA to implement activities
considered important for the extension network and rural development.

The component successfully broadened the skill set of SPs. All newly contracted SPs attended an initial
training (2 days) on the project concept and contractual arrangements. A training course in extension
methodologies (3 days) was developed in 2002 with TACIS international technical assistance, which
proved to be particularly useful, and a "consultant's guide" on the same topic was produced in 2003. Out
of 35 existing SPs teams, 33 have already benefited from this training in extension methodologies, with
the remainder scheduled to receive it shortly. In addition, 34 SP teams attended a basic training course (2
weeks) in four modules (technology, economics, legal aspects, agricultural marketing). SPs are also
trained in the use of computers before receiving equipment under the project. Other training courses
organized by ACSA in 2003 include financial management of public associations (for SP coordinators)


                                                    - 8 -

 and agricultural marketing (with support from SIDA). ACSA intends to continue and further develop
 training of SPs and local consultants, so as to improve their capacity to deliver increasingly specialized
 advisory services.

 Commercialization of SP Services. Increasingly, efforts are made to make the SPs more marketable and
 ensure that they will gradually reduce their dependability on donor funding, in particular:

l SP Training in Services with Increased Marketability. In addition to the basic training, ACSA has
    started to implement specialized training for experienced consultants in collaboration with private
    companies. Such specialized training has been initiated for fruit and vegetable production. The
    experience has been very positive and generated a lot of enthusiasm among regional and local
    consultants. It will serve as a basis for developing specialized training in four priority areas (fruit
    production, viticulture, vegetable production, milk production and possibly poultry) to be conducted in
    2005, and will include theoretical as well as practical training and visits to neighboring countries.
    Increased specialization of individual consultants within the SPs network will increase their ability to
    provide paid services of professional standard, while fostering exchange of experience and synergies
    throughout the SPs network.
l Commercial Publications. During 2004, ACSA has started new types of publications such as
    "practical guides" with enhanced contents and presentation and more detailed practical
    recommendations for professional farmers. The first practical guide on fruit production is about to be
    printed, and three others, on viticulture, vegetable production, and good agricultural practices, will
    follow in early 2005. Besides printed materials, ACSA intends to develop on-line information on
    internet both for SPs consultants and farmers.
l Promotion activities for ACSA and the SPs network have been intensified in 2004, both at national and
    local level. Besides an increased number of radio and television broadcasts and newspapers articles,
    ACSA organized two international symposia in apiculture and production of planting materials for
    vineyards.

 II.    Rural Business Development (At Appraisal: US$2.49 million, including IDA financing of
 US$0.50 million; At ICR: US$ 1.47 million, of which IDA US$ 0.11 million)

 Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

 The specific outputs of this component centered around the provision of technical assistance, training and
 operational support for a number of local Development Agencies (DAs) to create legally registered,
 self-owned and sustainable rural businesses, farmer organizations, agribusinesses, marketing entities and
 other rural businesses with proper legal and operational status. These entities could in turn become new
 clients of financial institutions such as those supported under the Rural Finance Component of the RISP.
 Component activities extended beyond the basic advisory information services provided under the first
 component, by assisting with the preparation of business strategies, identifying profitable products and
 markets, articulating business ideas, developing business plans and, ultimately, helping prepare loan
 applications.

 As of December 31, 2004, 761 businesses had received an assistance from DAs, of which 751 are still
 operating. The overwhelming majority of these are considered "low or medium risk" according to a
 specific set of criteria to determine the level of follow-up assistance required. Of these, 658 businesses
 have obtained loans from PFIs using funds either from RISP or from other sources. Of the only 10
 businesses that have failed to implement their business plans, eight are still repaying their loans. At start
 up, these businesses contributed to the creation of over 3,180 direct jobs. DAs continue the work under


                                                      - 9 -

several hundreds of active service agreements concluded with prospective clients, and are considering
more applications for service agreements with prospective clients, depending on the availability of credit.

This progress suggests that the activities under the component are contributing to a large-scale
reanimation of rural economic life. The component has also contributed to the diversification of the rural
economy, by supporting the creation of non-agricultural businesses which represent 59 percent of all
businesses created. It is also contributing to the "mental shift" of the local banks, who find that financing
small farms/businesses in rural areas can be a potentially profitable affair.

Until the second half of 2003, the quantitative progress of the component was well underway to reach the
Program Phase II triggers for the component of 900 businesses created.              However, because of a
faster-than-anticipated disbursement of the credit line under the third component (see below) leading to a
lack of available funds to finance newly created businesses, this pace considerably slowed down during
the latter part of 2003 and the beginning of 2004. Marginally, the increase in the interest rate charged to
the final beneficiary (from 13 percent in 2003 to 18 percent in 2004), and the discontinuation of the
matching grants for Special Credit Line clients may also have contributed to this slow down. A
Supplemental Credit of US$5 million was approved by the Board on April 7, 2004 to add to the credit
line. Measures were taken to re-gain a satisfactory pace of enterprise creation, including creating
additional DA teams, so that the trigger is still expected to be reached by Project closing.

The qualitative side of the DA work has been very satisfactory. Assessments based on the feedback from
PFIs not only cited satisfaction with the quality of the business plans prepared by the DAs, but also
acknowledged that the attitudinal shift towards rural clients observed in RISP is largely fueled by the DA
performance. In addition, non-RISP participating local banks have given credit to DA work by financing
some 25 percent of the businesses created with the assistance of DAs, considering these transactions
relatively safe compared to regular clients. A further indication of the quality of DA work, and the
atmosphere of trust between PFIs and DAs, is the falling rejection rate of loan applications, from over 50
percent at the start of the project to a current rate of around 20 percent. Beneficiaries too have shown
increased satisfaction with the quality and extent of services provided by DAs, as indicated by impact
assessment studies conducted in late 2002 (AGREX) and mid-2003 (Landell Mills Ltd). Annex 11
provides more details on the results of the impact studies. Considerable progress was made in Monitoring
and Evaluation throughout 2004 which has allowed the project to improve the DAs' work is the
"post-creation" support of the rural businesses. Indeed, at times, evaluations suggested that DAs were
biased towards business creation, not paying sufficient attention to the post-creation follow-up of
beneficiaries, thus raising concerns over the medium-term sustainability of the new businesses. However,
with the slow-down in the pace of creation over the last 12 months, the DAs have been concentrating more
on the post start-up implementation of the sub-projects, thus increasing the chances for success of the
enterprises. Thanks to the availability of the Supplemental Credit and the improved Monitoring and
Evaluation, the DAs seem to have reached an appropriate balance between "business creation" and
"follow-up services."

Finally, the emergence in itself of a system of business service providers in the rural areas, which
maintains a pool of highly qualified, trained and dedicated consultants can be regarded as an important
output of this component. Before the project began this area of advice was the most lacking, as there was
not even a residue of similar activities from the collective past. Most RISP DAs indicate that they intend
to continue their presence in rural areas, aiming at building fully sustainable consulting businesses. While
it is too early to tell if DAs will become commercially viable for all their rural activities, it is quite likely
that they might achieve viability under services provided to bigger rural clients, thus maintaining a
long-term presence in rural areas.


                                                    - 10 -

Cooperative development. While the Phase I design envisaged creation of both individual and group
businesses, no emphasis was placed specifically on development of cooperatives in rural areas. One of the
reasons was the poor image of cooperation in a country which had become independent in 1991, after the
break-up of the Soviet Union. However, the ICR mission was impressed by the work the DAs had done
with several service cooperatives. The assistance of the DAs reached a larger number of farmers (one of
the cooperatives had 56 members), and also enabled poorer farmers with smaller land plots to benefit from
financing, as these small farmers were pledging their assets together for the cooperative to acquire the
needed machinery. The Government may therefore consider whether additional support should be extended
in creation of such farmer/producer cooperatives under the Phase II of the Program.

III.    Rural Finance Component (At Appraisal: US$13.75 million, including IDA financing of
US$8.00 million; At ICR: US$ 19.61 million, of which IDA US$ 9.53 million). In addition to these
initial figures, a Supplemental of US$5 million was allocated to this component.

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

The Rural Finance Component addressed the lack of access by the newly emerging private farmers, rural
entrepreneurs and rural households to investment and working capital. In addition to providing credit at
prevailing commercial interest rates and terms, the component also supports the provision of technical
assistance to participating financial institutions (PFIs), the State Supervisory Body (SSB), Savings and
Credit Associations (SCAs), and the National Federation of Savings and Credit Associations (NFSCAs)
and is rated satisfactory.

Because of the severe lack of commercial banks' access to long-term funding, the component provided
two separate credit lines designed for distinctly different borrowers, which were on-lent through 5 active
commercial banks, and the Rural Finance Corporation (RFC). The banks were: Moldova Agroindbank,
Moldinconbank, Victoriabank, Banca Sociala, and Fincombank. Overall, the repayment rate stands at
95.69% and portfolio at risk 60 days is 2.69%.

The General Commercial Credit Line (GCL) provided permanent working capital and investment loans
to a wide range of creditworthy individual and group clients at interest rates close to prevailing market
rates for and commercial terms for similar loans. The beneficiaries were those rural enterprises with
commercially viable and bankable projects with adequate collateral, financial rates of return, and
demonstrated repayment capacity. The PFIs maintained full autonomy in the selection of the borrowers,
approval of sub-projects, determination of lending terms, and bore the lending risks. The GCL was
denominated in Moldova Lei (MDL) only. At the time of the ICR (December 31, 2004), and including
loans made from re-flows, the total number of loans extended under the GCL stood at 165, for a total
amount of MDL 58.6 million (approx. US$4.7 million). This represented 30 percent of the RISP credit
line loans The average loan amount was about MDL 354,908 (approx. US$ 28,622). The loan maturity
averages 4.2 years, with an average interest rate (for MDL-denominated loans) of 17.4 percent per
annum. PFIs borrow almost exclusively in MDLs and pay a 2% premium for administration costs and
foreign exchange risk. Borrowers' contribution to the implementation of sub-projects stood at a total of
MDL 30.9 million (US$2.5 million).

In addition, the GCL continued supporting SCAs based on the positive outcome of the Rural Finance
Project, the predecessor of the RISP. At the time of the ICR, and including loans made from re-flows, the
total number of subloans from RFC to the SCAs stood at 500, for a total amount of MDL 82.8 million
(approx. US$6.7 million). The growth of the SCA industry has been multidimensional, registering


                                                    - 11 -

increases in membership, volume of borrowing and volume of member deposits made to SCAs. Compared
to 2002, when RISP began, during 2003 and 2004, SCA membership increased by 32,650 persons
(62%). During the same period, the number of SCAs increased by 45 (or 9.3%), and savings increased by
approximately MDL 6.75 million (or 574%). During the 2003 lending season, the loan portfolio peaked at
MDL 201 million (about US$16.2 million), a 63% percent increase over the same period in 2002. During
the 2004 lending season, lending increased another 38 percent, to MDL 278 million (about US$ 22.4
million), The portfolio at risk 30 days from the SCAs to the Rural Finance Corporation stands at around
1.2%.

The Special Credit Line (SCL) was designed specifically to assist newly created and registered
small-scale, private farmers, groups of farmers and rural entrepreneurs who did not have a track record
with the commercial banking system as a result of the legacy from the Soviet system of agriculture
finance.   As new entrants these entities lack credit history, collateral, and adequate equity for the
self-financing that is required by market-oriented institutional creditors. In order to compensate for these
shortcomings, the SCL offered a one-time 20 percent matching grant to eligible borrowers after they had
fully repaid all interest and principle on time. These loans were being provided at commercial lending
terms and interest rates, and the PFIs had full autonomy in loan approval. Because of the subsidy element
of this facility, all due diligence, prior and post- loan approval, had to be carried out with full disclosure
of information on the recipients, utilization of funds, and effectiveness of the grant. Each legal beneficiary
entity was able to receive the grant on a "one time" only basis but could then graduate to the General
Credit Line. The matching grant funds under the Project were financed with with SIDA funds.

Under the SCL, 384 sub-loans were made to small-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The total
amount approved for the SCL amounted to MDL 52.9 million (approx. US$ 4.3 million equivalent),
including the matching grant of MDL 7.7 million (approx. US$550,000), funded by SIDA. The average
value of a loan (including the matching grant) disbursed from the SCL was MDL 137,736
(approx.US$11,108). Average maturity of SCL loans is 3.8 years, with an average interest rate of 17.4
percent per annum.

The Matching Grant. The above-mentioned matching grant of the Special Credit Line was to serve as an
enabling tool for potential clients with sound business plans to access commercial credit for the first time,
by (i) partially addressing the problem of lack of collateral on the beneficiary side, (ii) reducing the total
outstanding portfolio risk on the lender's side, and (iii) by providing an incentive for the beneficiary to
repay. In terms of impact, Grant beneficiaries viewed the grant element as an important incentive to start
up a business as it decreased the net cost of funding. Banks also showed an interest in the grant, as it gave
an incentive for on-time repayment and put less pressure on the cash flow of the borrower, hence reducing
risk to the lender. It is less clear, though, that the presence of the grant actually helped alleviate collateral
requirements or reduced the commercial bank's overall perception of the risk related to a particular
borrower.

Additional Grants funding: GEF. In addition to the Matching Grant under the Special Credit Line, the
beneficiaries were able to secure US$200,000 of additional grant funding from the GEF-financed
Agricultural Pollution Control Project, thanks to a close coordination within the Project's Management
Unit. This facility leverages the funds obtained from the commercial financial institutions and the RISP
beneficiaries' own resources to integrate biodiversity-friendly practices in farm and non-farm income
generating activities.

Credit Line Re-flows have significantly contributed in credit provision. At the time of ICR, out of the
total 549 investment loans provided under the GCL and the SCL, 165 were financed, fully or partially


                                                      - 12 -

 from re-flows. The total amount of re-flows used for financing new eligible projects came to MDL 21.2
 million (approx. US$1.7 million), representing 19 percent of direct RISP financing. Re-flows have also
 played an important role in the RISP financing of SCA's, with 139 loans, for a total amount of MDL 40.6
 million (approx. US$3.27 million).


                                                 Number of loans                  Amount, MDL
   Types of loans                            Total       of which from        Total       of which from
                                                            re-flows                         re-flows
   Investment loans of which                  549             165         111,450,586       21,168,477
    Loans from Special Credit Line            384             81           52,890,803        4,330,577
    Loans from General Credit Line            165             84           58,599,783       16,837,900
   Loans to SCAs                              500             139          82,793,760       40,620,000
    SCAs to their members                    29,360         14,400         82,793,760       40,620,000
   Total                                     1,049            304         194, 244,346      61,788,477




A Supplemental Credit for the RISP, in the amount of US$ 5.0 million was approved by the Board on
April 29, 2004, signed by the Borrower on May 12, 2004, and ratified on July 22, 2004. The Supplemental
Credit was approved as an amendment to the RISP Development Credit Agreement, and, as a
supplemental, contains the same terms and conditions as the original RISP. The Supplemental Credit
allows for the restoration of the original amount of the RISP, which was initially reduced due to limitations
of the IDA envelope. The entire amount is being used under the Rural Finance Component, to meet the
large demand for credits in rural areas. The Supplemental will be used for SCL loans only, while GCL and
SCA loans will be financed from re-flows.

Composition of the Loan Portfolio. One of the goals of RISP was diversification of the rural economy.
This was satisfactorily achieved. While the project supported traditional agriculture and animal breeding
related investments, it also supported investments in processing, transportation, construction, rural services,
rural tourism, and handicraft businesses. Overall, some 58 percent of the RISP credit lines supported
non-agricultural activities in the rural areas.

The SCL/GCL ratio. The Project envisaged that no less than 30 percent of loans going to PFIs should be
on-lent to first-time borrowers. This objective has been exceeded since, as of the ICR time, RFC had lent
67.8 percent of the credit to first-time borrowers, Fincombank: 60.2 percent, Victoriabank: 57.6 percent,
MAIB 49.8 percent, Banca Sociala 38.7 percent and Moldincombank 31 percent in SCL loans.

Quality of the Loan Portfolio. At the time of the ICR, repayment rates of both direct credit lines remained
high, at 96 percent. Only two loans out of 549 were rated "problem loans", and the PFIs have taken legal
steps to recover their funds. The portfolio at risk (PAR 60 days) is 2.69 percent. Details of the PFIs loan
portfolios are provided in Annex 10. The last supervision mission carried out sub-loan reviews of all PFIs,
and concluded that the overall quality of their portfolios, loan appraisal procedure, and sub-loan files,
including fiduciary aspects such as environment, procurement, financial management, are satisfactory. On
the micro-finance side, also, the SCA portfolio quality is highly satisfactory, with recovery standing at
around 98 percent. The portfolio at risk (30 days) improved from 3.4 percent to 2.3 percent from 2003 to
2004 and 1.3% at the end of 2004.

Participating financial institutions (PFI). Five commercial banks participated in the project:



                                                    - 13 -

Agroindbank, Victoria, Banca Sociala, Moldinconbank, and Fincombank, and one non-bank financial
institution, the Rural Finance Corporation. The participating banks were in full compliance with the
prudential regulations of the National Bank of Moldova (NBM). The Rural Finance Corporation is not
subject to any of these regulations but tries to comply with those that would be revelant to credit-only
institutions if they were to become supervized by the NBM. All PFIs were also in full compliance with the
eligibility criteria of RISP, including the regular and timely submission of their audited financial statements
to IDA for a review. Overall, the PFI maintained strong growth started in 1999 during the project
implementation period. Thus, for instance, in 2003 the assets of the participating banks grew on average by
29.6%, loan portfolio by 19.4%, and capital by 41% on average. During 2004, although at a slower pace,
the assets of the participating banks grew on average by 16%, loan portfolio by 8%, and capital by 8.7%.

The quality of loan portfolio has also improved and almost all PFIs reduced the provisions as a percentage
of the loan portfolio at the end of 2003, which was the first adjustment of such type. Since then, the
provisioning rate has increased slightly, but overall the quality of the loan portfolio in the participating
banks remains good: (i) share of past due and non-performing loans between 0.76% and 7.92%, and (ii)
provision rates between 3.0% and 5.7% (except one bank where the provisions temporary have reached
7.8% of the loan portfolio). The capital adequacy ratio is between 19% and 29%, above the minimum of
12% set by the National Bank of Moldova. ROA varies between 1.5% and 3.5%, and ROE ­ between
12.1% and 19.3%.

Lending to agriculture and rural sectors. Overall, in the banking sector, the lending to agriculture as a
percentage of overall portfolio has remained relatively stable, and was 28.7 percent at the end of 2004,
versus 27 percent at the beginning of 2002. However, this stability is a remarkable achievement, as the
overall portfolio of the commercial banks has grown by 130%, to MDL 7.3 billion during the same period,
indicating that the lending to agriculture in absolute numbers has doubled. In the participating financial
institutions, overall 35.3% of their total net loan portfolio is in loans to agriculture and agro-processing, as
of the ICR. Although the share of RISP loans is small, participation in the project has triggered increased
lending to agriculture, on average by 13% during 2003 and by additional 26% during 2004 across the
participating PFIs. In view of achieving the project objective of encouraging the PFIs to lend to smaller
farmers and rural entrepreneurs, the PFIs admitted that there is an increased comfort level in lending to
smaller rural clients, not least due to the assistance proivided by the DAs. During the Second Phase of the
Program, it is expected that additional commercial banks will be brought onboard as PFIs, to further
mainstream the positive results achieved so far in the five participating banks.

Capacity Building in the SCA System. Special attention under the component was given to actions aimed
at consolidating the capacity in the SCA system particularly by: (i) strengthening the State Supervisory
Body's (SSB) regulatory and supervisory capacity for SCAs; (ii) improving the National Federation of
SCA's capacity to provide better support services to its SCA members; (iii) strengthening the regulatory
framework for SCA operation, in particular, development of new financial prudential norms; (iv)
improving managerial and accounting capacity at SCA level; and (v) ensuring the existence of a quality
cadre of management in SCAs through a process of certification.

New improved prudential norms for the industry were approved by Parliament and were made effective
January 1, 2005. A new draft legislation on micro-finance institutions should improve the regulatory
environment. The Government has also worked on improving the Law on Saving and Credit Associations
which should further help and is expected to become effective in 2005. The project has trained around 20
SSB staff, has financed considerable training of SCAs and National Federation staff, improved the quality
of reporting and reformed the accounting system for SCAs.




                                                      - 14 -

However, a number of factors have negatively impacted on the efforts of the project to consolidate SCA
institutions. These include:

l The perennial understaffing of the SSB and high staff turnover, as a result of poor public service pay,
    have reduced the impact of training activities under the project as staff would move to higher-paid jobs
    in the private sector upon completion of their training;
l Certification of SCA management carried out by the SSB followed fairly loose evaluation standards,
    thus allowing certification of inadequately prepared managers;
l Training to SCA managers and accountants followed a mass-training pattern, and proved inefficient.


 The Government of Moldova (GOM) recognizes that the system continues to be inadequately supervised
 and regulated, and requires strengthening to sustain current levels of lending, and remains fully aware of
 the need to continue activities aimed at strengthening all major players, ahead or in parallel with the
 second phase of the RISP APC. Therefore, the Government requested that the Bank investigate the
 possibility of additional grant financing, possibly through a PHRD, to help think through a new
 institutional structure for the industry, which would help develop a financially and institutionally
 sustainable system, with a solid focus on supervision and training to be implemented under Phase 2.

 Institutional Capacity Development for Rural Finance System. Commercial Banks and the Rural
 Finance Corporation. The sub-component provided technical assistance to the PFIs. While RISP PFIs
 are among the strongest in the country, as four of five Project PFIs are among the top-five banks in the
 country, lending to agricultural clients, especially to new private farmers, farmer groups and small rural
 entrepreneurs, was new to most PFIs. Specific technical assistance and training focused on (i)
 strengthening commercial banks' capacity in rural lending; (ii) developing RFC's capacity for direct
 lending; and (iii) exploring various risk mitigating options to enhance sustainability of the system. TA to
 PFIs took the form of workshops by the team specialists and donor funded seminars.

 IV.     Project Management Component (At Appraisal: US$0.50 million, including IDA financing of
 US$0.40 million; At ICR: US$ 0.46 million, of which IDA US$ 0.32 million)

 Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

 This component, rated satisfactory, provided technical and financial support for project implementation.
 Implementation and supervision was the responsibility of the Consolidated Agricultural Projects
 Management Unit (CAPMU). CAPMU had demonstrated its capability to manage the preparation and
 implementation of Bank-funded projects in Moldova's rural sector prior to RISP, by implementing the
 Rural Finance Project and completing implementation of the First Agriculture Project. Throughout RISP
 implementation, CAPMU was adequately staffed, both numerically and qualitatively, with professionals
 trained in administrative functions such as disbursement and accounting, procurement, monitoring and
 evaluation, and reporting. Recognizing the complexity of the multiple tasks CAPMU staff benefited from
 substantial training to maintain their qualifications. On the funding side, CAPMU has received timely and
 sufficient funds both from RISP sources and the Government to perform its functions, including a budget
 for annual audits of project accounts and special studies.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
 The Project contributed towards the creation of viable private sector development: farms, farmer
 organizations, and other rural businesses. At Appraisal, the demand driven nature of the Project, and the
 built-in credit line, made it difficult to estimate a priori the possible types of investments and their
 possible rates of return, although an attempt was made to model more-likely agricultural activities, such



                                                     - 15 -

 as vineyards, orchards, an oil mill, etc. However, no attempts were made to estimate the aggregate rate of
 return for the whole Project, due to the large diversity of activities to be undertaken and various sizes of
 land-plots used, etc. The ICR will, similarly, not attempt, to calculate the rate of return for the Project.
 Yet, the Project's structure dictated that each of the components would ensure tangible benefits. Thus, the
 advisory service component generated increased yields and income for its beneficiaries, the business
 development services helped create new businesses and jobs by preparing bankable business plans, and
 the credit line, where all lending risks were borne by the PFI, helped ensure that only viable business
 propositions were financed. The Project emphasized the strengthening of the risk assessment capacity of
 loan officers and required PFIs to only make those sub-loans that demonstrated sufficient rates of returns.


 As further developed in Annex 3, findings from the impact assessments (beneficiary surveys) and the
 conducted visits to the beneficiaries demonstrated that significant benefits have resulted under the Project,
 namely, increased sales in beneficiary companies, creation of additional jobs, increased salaries for the
 borrowers' employees, increased motivation for entrepreneurship, improved agricultural technologies, etc.
 For instance, the average cost of creating a new business is calculated at US$900 equivalent, which, while
 not prohibitive, is relatively high. The main reasons for such high costs are that the DAs are still at the
 learning curve, and it also takes a lot of time and effort to promote entrepreneurship in a previously
 planned economy. Yet, the economic benefits are also fairly sizeable. It is estimated that the businesses: (i)
 have average sales of US$27,000 equivalent; (ii) pay on average US$600 of taxes for each year they
 operate (the amount of taxes paid will increase along with the growth of the companies), and (iii) create on
 average 4 new jobs.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project was designed to support new, small-scale, private farm and non-farm rural businesses, most of
which were first time borrowers. The financial rate of return of the project was not calculated but the PFIs
ensured that only financially viable business activities were financed. The actual repayment rates,
approximately 96 percent, and healthy portfolio quality of PFIs confirm the financial soundness of
sub-loans supported under the project. Another indication of the sound financial standing is the high
recovery rate in the SCA system, of more then 98 percent

4.5 Institutional development impact:
 Public Institutions. The impact is considered satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the Project, which was
 to increase the SSB's capacity to supervize SCAs, has provided considerable support to the SSB. The
 project helped the SSB with the drafting of new prudential norms, a new law on SCAs, developing
 monitoring tools and reporting requirements, and working with the National Federation of SCAs to
 monitor the industry and providing extensive training. Despite the acquisition of these new and important
 tools, the problem of staffing remains acute. The main reason the SSB is not yet able to properly
 supervise the SCA system lies outside the Project's efforts and results from inadequate levels of
 remuneration of SSB staff and overall resources which have, in turn, led to considerable staff turnover.
 The Bank and the GOM are committed to continue the search for solutions to this problem. The recent
 FSAP, which worked closely with this Project, failed to convince the National Bank of the need for it to
 supervise SCAs. Alternative methods, such as the creation of an independent supervising body for the
 whole microfinance industry is currently being discussed and a PHRD Grant was approved in December
 2004, to help address this in the design the second phase of the RISP. This Grant is also expected to help
 redesign the SCA industry and make recommendations for a proper supervision mechanism.

 Advisory Service Providers. The Project has been extremely successful at building up the institutional
 and technical capacity of ACSA and regional and local advisory service providers, and linking them into a



                                                     - 16 -

 country-wide network able to offer farmers good quality, demand driven, and grass-root level advisory
 and consulting services.

 Business Development Agencies. The project contributed to the consolidation of institutional and
 technical capacity of four development agencies which have established a presence in the rural areas in the
 business development service domain. The likelihood that these institutions will continue their activities in
 the sector beyond RISP is rather high. Benefits to individuals and banks indicate that cost recovery is
 possible and will be implemented in Phase II. Already today, the DAs are involved in fee-based, non-RISP
 individual consulting agreements with agricultural and rural businesses.

 Participating Financial Intermediaries. At the time of ICR preparation (December, 2004) all Project
 participating commercial banks were financially stable, registering significant growth of their asset base,
 loan portfolio and capital, and improved portfolio quality, as discussed in detail in section 4.2. All banks
 were in full compliance with National Bank of Moldova's prudential regulations, and RISP eligibility
 criteria. The banks are subject to continued monitoring by a Technical Unit in the Ministry of Finance and
 the FSAP has recently completed an assessment of the financial sector to which the Project was able to
 contribute to. Additional banks are already lining up to take part in the second phase of the APC.

 The Rural Finance Corporation (RFC), a non-bank credit-only financial institution, was the most active
 lender under the Special Credit Line of RISP. While initially the RFC was created as an APEX institution
 lending to the SCA system (Rural Finance Project), the RFC recently entered the niche of direct individual
 lending. By the end of 2004, its direct loan portfolio was MDL 49.1 million (US$ 3.96 million). The total
 lending to SCAs in 2004 was MDL 120 million, resulting in a total portfolio value of MDL 148.7 million
 by the end of 2004. The overall portfolio quality was very good, with the PAR at 30 days at only 1.3
 percent. All loans were provisioned according to the prudential norms of the NBM. Furthermore, RFC
 started introducing all other prudential norms of the NBM relevant to RFC operations, a very positive
 development. At the time of ICR preparation, the RFC had finalized its medium-term development
 strategy, which contains a good roadmap for its development into a full fledge financial institution.
 However, in view of the RFC's ambitious growth projections, the GOM should find a way to ensure an
 appropriate supervision/regulation for RFC which currently is under no prudential supervision, neither by
 the National Bank nor by the State Supervisory Body. The strategy itself will be reviewed and updated
 uring the implementation of the PHRD.

 Beneficiaries.    Independent impact assessments of RISP's activities demonstrate an institutional
 improvement at the beneficiary level. In summary, farmers and rural entrepreneurs who interact with the
 project become more educated and more economically active, and as a result their incomes are improving.
 A more detailed analysis of the beneficiary survey results see in Annex 11.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Shortly prior to negotiations, the amount of IDA credit for RISP was reduced from US$15 million to
US$10.5 million. This was caused by a Bank-wide shortfall in IDA resources. The amount was deducted
from the credit lines. Eventually, the situation led to a discrepancies in the pace of implementation of the
Rural Business Development and the Rural Finance Components. Without the availability of credit
resources, creation and development of businesses stalled, putting at risk the achievement of the expected
outputs for the component. The situation was resolved when the Bank approved a Supplemental Credit of
US$ 5 million for the SCL.




                                                     - 17 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
 The overall commitment of the Government to the Program objectives and the Government's active
 involvement in the Project implementation (through the Steering Committee) has been excellent and has
 significantly contributed to the success of the Project.

 As part of the RISP I and SACIII projects preparation, the Bank and the Government negotiated a Letter
 of Sector Development Policy and a Memorandum of Understanding. These documents provided for the
 Government to maintain overall liberal agricultural policies for producers, traders and processors and
 were meant to provide a framework that could serve as a basis for negotiations of SACIII. They covered
 issues such as land ownership, a commitment to maintain the administration of the cadastre system in
 accordance with the National Cadastre Project, basic principles for production cooperatives, and limits on
 market interventions.Overall, the Government has complied with its commitment as there has been no
 major infringement. The expiration of SACIII on September 30, 2003 has made the enforcement of the
 MOU more difficult, but the Project was able to engage the Government in various policy issues, such as
 related to land use and land consolidation, various subsidy programs and the financial sector legal and
 regulatory environment, in particular as it relates to SCAs. These discussions have typically been
 constructive, have led to the drafting of a land leasing law and a new law on SCAs and much improved
 prudential norms.     The passage of a problematic Land Code seems to have been postponed until
 alternative solutions can be found. The continuing uncertainty regarding GOM's plans on land
 consolidation represents an even potentially bigger deterrent for agricultural investments and the overall
 policy environment in the sector remains somewhat unstable. While not all policy developments affected
 the Project beneficiaries directly, a number of government actions, such as the interventions on the wheat
 market and perceived informal restriction of sunflower exports have the potential to hinder rural
 investment and affect adversely the profitability of agricultural production, thus affecting project
 outcomes. These issues will have to be monitored further and addressed in a satisfactory manner to the
 Bank, before moving to the Phase II of the Program as they represent an important trigger of the APC.

 As mentioned above, the less than satisfactory institutional development for SCA supervision can partly
 be explained by the limited resources available for strengthening the SSB. The SSB budget falls under the
 responsibility of the MOF, but the resources available are barely sufficient to pay for the salaries of four
 out of the nine staff members required. This issue will be further analyzed during the implementation of a
 PHRD.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
To a large extent, achievements under the Project were due to the effective management capacity and
commitment of CAPMU. CAPMU has managed to successfully coordinate the efforts between IDA and the
involved bilateral donors, to ensure effective and efficient achievement of the Project objectives.

5.4 Costs and financing:
 At the time of ICR preparation (December, 2004), no major reallocations had been made among the
 project components. In addition to IDA resources, the Project has benefited from several donor
 contributions: US$1.36 million from DFID, (RBD Component), US$ 0.88 million from SIDA for
 matching grant resources and technical assistance to PFIs, and US$ 0.70 million from TACIS for the
 Rural Advisory Component. The minor reallocations therefore come from these additional resources, the
 changes in the value of the dollar and the reallocation from the unused balanced of the Project Preparation
 Facility.

                         Project Costs, US$ million equivalent



                                                     - 18 -

                                               PAD                           At ICR
Component                                Total Indicative   Bank Financing   Total Costs    IDA Financing
                                         Costs
Component 1. Rural Advisory Services            2.95               1.60             2.43          1.38
Component 2. Rural Business Development          2.49              0.50             1.47          0.11
Component 3. Rural Finance                      13.75             13.00            19.61          9.53
Component 4. Project Management                  0.50              0.40             0.46          0.32
Total Project Costs:                            19.69             15.50            23.97          11.34




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project was designed as the first Phase of a larger APC. It developed products and services and put in
place delivery mechanisms for a large outreach following the massive creation of landowners. It also built
new linkages between commercial financial institutions and farmers or small entrepreneurs, many of which
had never obtained bank loans before. The project is well underway towards sustainability and therefore
receives a satisfactory rating. The attitude of PFIs towards rural businesses/farms seem to have evolved
and, with each supervision mission, the task team is increasingly confident that the banking sector will
continue to serve, well after project closing, rural areas which it did not serve before. Rural Advisory
Service Providers have developed a nationwide network. They demonstrated that there is a strong demand
for good quality services. Support will continue to be needed throughout a second phase. Cost recovery
will need to be introduced for services that can be financially viable while a strategy will need to be
developed to institutionalize services that will continue to have a public good component (e.g.
environmentally friendly farm management practices). Development Agencies have already began to
generate their own revenues through agreements with beneficiaries and/or banks and are expected to
increase these revenues during the second phase. The Rural Finance Corporation, while financially
sustainable, will continue to need assistance during the second phase to develop and implement its
long-term strategy, and will need to be brought under supervision. Individual Savings and Credit
Associations are overall performing well and there are no imminent threats to the industry. However,
supervisory capacity and repayment potential for network services that are necessary to ensure the
long-term sustainability of the industry continue to be weak and will need to be addressed by the second
phase of the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The objective of the first phase of the project was to develop financial and non financial products and
services and the methodologies to deliver them to rural areas. It was also to test the demand for such
services and people's willingness to pay for them. There were no arrangements made to transition these
activities into regular operations before the second phase which was to address issues of sustainability
(financial and institutional) and to gradually transfer the activities to the Government so that they can
become part of regular operations by the end of the Program.

Phase II will address sustainability issues for both Rural Advisory and Business Development components.
There is justification for the continued public funding of services that have more of a "public good"
component, such as the development of environment-friendly land management in coordination with various
GEF initiatives. At the same time, there is scope for the increased commercialization of SP services,
already started on a small scale by marketing SP services to larger private sector companies, and it is
expected that the emerging, and growing commercial farmers will gradually assume payment for
specialized advice and services, which will require a strengthening of the professional capabilities and
increased specialization of the SPs regional and local consultants.



                                                         - 19 -

The methodology used for implementing this component ­ contracting a number of DAs and equipping
them with knowledge and tools to enable them to create sustainable businesses, which has proved
successful - is likely to be similar, but key cost recovery elements will be considered. Possible
recommendations may include (i) commercial banks which participated in Phase I financing part of the cost
of business plan preparation, (ii) a financial contribution which may be required from the beneficiaries
through a fee or an increased interest-rate spread.

Under Phase II, the focus on providing access to commercial banking services to first-time borrowers will
be maintained. In addition to that, Project will help the Government with additional initiatives to strengthen
the provision of financial services to rural areas. These initiatives could include (i) the establishment of a
credit bureau (with USAID), (ii) further pilots to address land parceling and enhance land markets, (iii) the
restructuring of the Savings and Credit Association industry and the enhancement of its supervision as well
as the supervision of the Rural Finance Corporation (subject to the findings of the implementation of the
PHRD grant). The desirability of introducing additional topics such as moveable assets or warehouse
receipts (in coordination with the Citizen's Network for Foreign Affairs, or CNFA) will be also studied.

The transition of these activities into regular Government operations will be integrated into the design of
Phase II, whenever appropriate.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The preparation of the Project required substantial time, effort and cost. The first identification mission
took place in September 1998. The Project, initially named Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP),
was to include a credit line along with a range of support services to be offered to farmers. In the beginning
of 1999, however, preparation was split into two separate projects, one with support services and the other
with a credit line. Because of the complementarity of both activities, both projects were merged back in
September 2000, substantially downsizing the support services side of the new proposed Project. This
lengthy and at times parallel preparation, which included changes in the team leaders, multiple mission trips
and a number of consultants working on both projects, resulted in substantial expenditures. The preparation
costs thus amounted to US$ 1.2 million, or 11 percent of the RISP Phase 1 amount.

During the relatively extensive preparation period, the Bank conducted a Rapid Gap Assessment to
determine the real needs of the rural population, and prepared a strategic document for its interventions in
the sector, the Agriculture Strategy for Moldova (ESW). The two documents highlighted the most pressing
sector problems of reduced rural incomes, rising unemployment, labor migration, poverty, lack of non-farm
economic opportunities, absence of support services, and other economic and social hardships associated
with the aftermath of the transition process. A permanent dialogue was maintained with stakeholder
organizations and NGOs throughout project preparation to build ownership and commitment. Preparation
efforts were supported by a PPF, which tested out all project components, including the credit lines. The
final design of the project reflected innovative features based on actual conditions and needs in the rural
areas.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in respect of supervision activities can be assessed as satisfactory. Throughout the
implementation period the Bank was able to maintain largely the same task team which prepared the
project, with the exception of the TTL, who changed mid way in the Project implementation cycle.
However it did not have any adverse impact on the Project implementation. In fact, the Rural Finance


                                                     - 20 -

Component was fully disbursed 18 months before the original closing date. Supervision was carried out at
least every six months and more frequently whenever the need arose.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
From the outset of preparation activities, the GOM has played an active and important role in project
preparation through its Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, and the NBM.
From the beginning of and throughout the Project preparation cycle, the Bank team worked in close
collaboration with designated officials from these ministries, who contributed substantively to the Project
design.

In addition, GOM's important contribution to preparation efforts has manifested itself through swift and
rational utilization of PHRD resources, to cover expenses related to local and international technical
assistance, and its firm request for a PPF, to test the innovative design of the Project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Performance of the GOM during implementation was satisfactory. The Government delegated the
responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Project to CAPMU. Nevertheless, the GOM remained
closely involved in the Project implementation through active participation in the Project Steering
Committee (PSC), which provided guidance to CAPMU on strategic and substantive project management
matters. The PSC consisted of representatives of all key ministries, and through regular meetings
proactively followed up on the agreed next steps and actions. In addition, the Government has contributed
to successful implementation of the Project by providing adequate co-financing from the budget, and it
allowed PFIs full autonomy in loan appraisal and approval.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
CAPMU has performed satisfactorily. The entity is adequately staffed, with qualified and experienced
professionals, who know very well the sector, as well as the intricacies of Bank policies and processes. Its
staff proved extremely effective in dealing with complex, multiple tasks of project management, including
financial management, accounts and audits, procurement, M&E and safeguards. It has demonstrated
capacity to serve as an efficient interlocutor between stakeholders, beneficiaries and donors on all aspects
of project preparation and implementation. During the Project implementation it became as a focus group
for thought and innovative approaches for many aspects of rural development, such as micro-finance,
environmentally friendly agriculture, advisory services, and others.

The Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) especially should be praised as the most active PFIs and for playing
a catalyst role in the microfinance system. RFC, a non-bank credit-only financial institution, was the most
active lender under the Special Credit Line of RISP. At the time of the ICR, the total number of subloans
from RFC to the SCAs, including made from re-flows, stood at 500, for a total amount of MDL 82.8
million (approx. US$6.7 million). While initially the RFC was created as an APEX institution lending to
the SCA system (Rural Finance Project), the RFC recently entered the niche of direct individual lending.

Similarly, the performance of ACSA, development agencies (DAs), and other PFIs has been satisfactory.
All these institutions have been adequately staffed, trained, and equipped to carry out the Project activities.
All participants have been very committed to the project objectives, and the implementations activities have
been executed timely, efficiently and effectively. During the PPF and inception period, these institutions



                                                      - 21 -

provided specific comments and modifications to the Project team, which contributed to enhanced overall
effectiveness of the Project implementation

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A. Broad policy issues

Policy conditionalities or triggers should be very limited in investment lending operations. The Letter
of Sector Development Policy and the Memorandum of Understanding were negotiated as part of the
preparation of the RISP Project and SACIII. When SACIII disappeared, it became increasingly difficult for
RISP1, a relatively small investment loan, to enforce on its own an MOU of very broad and far reaching
policies. Policy triggers/conditionalities should have been limited to policies that affected the project
directly. For example, further disbursement to SCAs should not be allowed until there was a proper
supervisory authority in place. As much as possible, further "policy issues" should be integrated into
alternative documents such as the EGPRSP.

B. Rural Finance

Credit Lines that are likely to make a large number of small sub-loans need considerable delegation
of fiduciary responsibilities.

The Bank is in no position to, nor should it, prior review a considerable number of subloans. The
implementation of the project was clearly facilitated by:

l Providing straightforward, simple written guidelines and instructions for banks, as well as promotional
    materials for borrowers to improve awareness about credit lines at inception.
l Building expertise within the PIU (in this case, CAPMU), to conduct a major part of the screening
    process, leaving the Bank to only prior-review larger loans and post-review the smaller ones.
l Establishing a good partnership with the financial institutions, providing technical assistance and
    helping the banks improve their subloan applications so that prior review, when needed, could be
    conducted faster and more successfully.

While eligibility criteria for PFIs should be designed during project preparation, the project should
allow for some flexibility to add/substract financial intermediaries throughout project implementation
. Loan documents AND budgets should allow this flexibility.              Project preparation had identified
eligibility criteria and conducted due diligence for a number of PFIs. However, once the project was
launched, it became quickly clear that the demand for the project's resources would be greater than the
funds available and additional commercial banks were putting pressure on the Government to be able to
join the project. Alterative methods of rationing could be considered, including the auctioning of funds.

If the credit line is going to contain a grant portion, the project should make sure that there is a
general consensus about the constrain that the grant is trying to address so that the project can
objectively measure its effectiveness. The Mid-Term Review assessed that the impact of the Matching
Grant was not clear. The people who designed the grant were hoping that the existence of a grant would (i)
make the banks less demanding when it came to collateral, and (ii) provide an incentive for the client to
repay since the 20-percent grant only applied to people who had repaid the first 80 percent on time. But it



                                                    - 22 -

happened not to be the case: (i) collateral requirements were identical whether or not a grant was present
and (ii) banks did not perceive the grant as an incentive to repay on time and therefore did not feel the
"grantees" were safer clients.      The commercial banks, the beneficiaries and, to some extent, the
Government saw the grant as a subsidy on the interest rate which provided an additional incentive for
people to invest in rural areas by decreasing the effective interest rate.

C. Advisory and Business Development Services

The lack of consulting services to help small entrepreneurs prepare and implement business plans was
as important a constrain to rural finance as the lack of long-term credit on the market. It is clear that
the lack of long-term funding represented an important constrain to rural finance. However, had a credit
line been provided without a component to strengthen Business Development Services, it is highly unlikely
that the credit line would have been disrbused. This combination of financing and TA was a critical
success to the implementation of RISPI.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following section was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of the Republic of
Moldova.

9.1. Overall Conclusion

On behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry agrees with the assessment of
Project effectiveness presented in the present ICR and expresses its deep interest in continuing a fruitful
cooperation with the Bank in the preparation and implementation of the second stage of APL. The Ministry
believes that almost all necessary prerequisites for implementation of the second APL are already in place,
and that it is able to strengthen the success achieved during the first stage and continue the work on
strengthening the agricultural crediting system stability, on the basis of the market principles, over the
whole rural territory of Moldova. On its part, the Ministry of Agriculture is willing to do everything
possible in order to speed up the preparation of APL II.

9.2. Project Objectives and Design

The main objective of the project was to foster post-privatization growth in the agricultural sector by
improving the access of new private farmers and rural entrepreneurs to what they need to succeed - legal
ownership status, knowledge, know-how, and finance. In parallel to this objective, the project had to
contribute to poverty reduction by creating income-earning opportunities and improving productivity
through complementary technical assistance and investment support.           Specific support included: (a)
solidifying private ownership of land and other productive assets; (b) creating viable rural entrepreneurial
legal and organizational structures; (c) establishing a private, agricultural support services system
including advisory, input and output supply, marketing, and business development support; and (d)
establishing a self-sustaining rural finance system to serve a large number of dispersed rural clients
throughout the county.

The Ministry notes also that the design and conceptual content of the first stage of the Program was correct
and passed the time test. Finally, analysis of the experience accrued during the Project is now crucial for
setting the priorities of second phase of the Adaptable Program Loans (APL).




                                                     - 23 -

9.3. Project Implementation

9.3.1. Project Coordination and Management

The Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit (CAPMU), set up by the Government in 1999 to
implement all Bank's projects in rural areas, was responsible for monitoring the implementation of Rural
Investment and Services Project, assuming as well full responsibility over withdrawals from the Special
Project Account.

Throughout the years of its existence CAPMU has assured successful implementation of different projects,
as well as coordination of work for institutions involved in the project, achieving irreversible reforms in the
rural areas of Moldova.

9.3.2. Rural Finance Component

The project's main goals to support rural entrepreneurs by providing investment credit through local
financial institutions, and to strengthen capacity by training of credit officer were achieved. The program
funds were on lent through five active commercial banks: Banca Sociala (BS), Fincombank (FCB),
Moldinconbank (MICB), Moldova Agroindbank (MAIB), Victoria Bank (VB), and one non-banking
financial institution Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) as participating financial institutions (PFIs).

The implementation of the credit line through local PFIs proved to be viable and may be used during
subsequent stages of the Project. The Government is pleased to note that the pace of disbursements under
the RISP has been faster than originally projected, reflecting a large unmet demand for RISP financial
products. Within 16 months following project effectiveness, far ahead of the agreed disbursement schedule,
all funds allocated for the credit lines have been already disbursed. The Government acknowledges with
gratitude the willingness of the Bank to offer a $5 million supplement to the first phase of the Program in
order to cover the created gap in funding Rural Finance Component. Besides, in addition to the component
budget, another US$ 4.5 million funds were generated from a special revolving account from the reflows.

The Ministry remarks with satisfaction that the main catalyst of the country's microfinance system - Rural
Finance Corporation (RFC) continues to be the most active of all PFIs, and has granted 38 percent of all
investment loans, including 67 percent of the SCL loans. The assets of the participating banks grew on
average by 29.6 percent, loan portfolio by 19.4 percent, and capital by 41 percent on average. The quality
of loan portfolio is also improving as almost all PFIs reduced the provisions as a percentage of the loan
portfolio at the end of 2003. Although the share of RISP loans is small, the share of loans to agriculture
and agro-processing has increased on average by 13.2 percent from 2002 in the overall portfolio of the
PFIs.

Even though, all six PFIs have acquired strong public confidence, the Ministry believes that there will be a
need to re-tender the PFIs participation to the second stage of APL, by opening the floor to other potential
PFIs as well.

The recent rapid growth of the SCAs industry represents a considerable challenge for the system, a concern
shared by the Ministry and the Mid Term Review Mission. The Ministry recognizes that more work is
required to strengthen training and supervision of the entire network to ensure the stability of the system. In
order to properly prepare the SCAs network for the second phase of the Program, the Ministry and
CAPMU considers the possibility to approach a donor to finance technical assistance addressing
prudential, supervision and training issues of the system.


                                                    - 24 -

9.3.3. Rural Advisory Component

The component has made sufficient progress, in line with project objectives, in the establishment of a
nationwide network of decentralized rural advisory Service Providers (SP), managed by the Agency for
Scholarship and Consulting in Agriculture (ACSA). At present, 35 SPs, employing 447 local and regional
advisers, were providing services ranging from individual consultations to field visits, demonstrations,
seminars and roundtables to 300,000 farmers, roughly half of Moldova's farmers. Only in 2003, the SPs
provided a mix of 184,000 services to 328,000 beneficiaries. The Ministry is confident in these
achievements and encouraged by the feedback, which ACSA has been receiving from the field through
various monitoring instruments.

The Ministry believes that in order to enhance the overall implementation of the component in the second
phase of the Program it is essential to continuously improve the output and impact monitoring, strengthen
coordination with other agencies, projects or components in order to broaden the range of services provided
to the farmers. Now that a comprehensive network of SPs has been successfully established, it is critical to
develop the activities more strategically and efficiently. Thus, ACSA should develop a strategic vision of
what should be achieved in the coming years and beyond. Specific Monitoring and Evaluation indicators
should be developed for the second phase of the Program in order to provide guidance in the
implementation of this strategy.

9.3.4. Rural Business Development Component

Under the component 761 rural businesses were set up with the assistance of the four Development
Agencies (DAs) as of December 31, 2004. Of these, 658 businesses have obtained loans from PFIs. At
start up, these businesses contributed to the creation of approximately 3,182 direct jobs. We need to agree
that there is enough evidence already to argue that the activities under the component are contributing to a
large-scale reanimation of rural economic life.

The Ministry is aware that due to the lack of funds under the Rural Finance Component, the occurred
increase in the cost of borrowing for beneficiaries, and the complete usage of the matching grants for
Special Credit Line, the pace of creation of businesses has decreased during the last six months. As a
result, the number of businesses created by DAs that started to implement their business plan represents
approximately 82 percent of the intended target for this period. However, this problem has been addressed,
CAPMU, DAs and Landell Mills have taken measures to re-gain a satisfactory pace of enterprise creation
and the trigger is expected to be reached by closing.

The Ministry considers that during the second phase of the Program the Rural Business Development
component continues to finance technical assistance, training and operational support for local
Development Agencies (DAs) to support the creation of legally registered, sustainable rural businesses,
farmer organizations and agribusinesses, which would be potential new clients of financial institutions such
as those supported under the Rural Finance component of the RISP. Component will continue to assist the
beneficiaries with the preparation of business strategies, identifying profitable products and markets,
articulating business ideas, developing business plans, and preparing loan applications. In parallel, the
Component would concentrate also on permanent post-creation support in order to ensure the long-term
sustainability of the new businesses.

9.4. Assessment of Project Effectiveness and Sustainability



                                                    - 25 -

The Ministry of Agriculture rates the project's effectiveness as satisfactory. The project achievements to
date are likely to be sustainable.

9.5. World Bank Performance

In general the Ministry is satisfied with the Bank's supervision over the implementation of the first phase of
the Program.

The newly appointed Project Task Team Leader and his team also demonstrated high activity and intention
to solve all issues quickly. The dynamism achieved during the last stage of the project implementation is
apparent.

9.6. Main Lessons Learned

The problem of insufficient collateral still remains the main obstacle in access to credit for agricultural
producers, especially for small ones. The Ministry believes that different leasing schemes would be an
effective solving of this problem. Including it into the second phase of the APC would strengthen the
institutional capacity of the credit line and the financial system of the republic as a whole. Creation of an
efficient and functional mobile collateral registration system and the establishment of a credit record
institution would reduce the cost of borrowing.

PFIs procedures for loan application processing are sometimes quite complicated. The Ministry considers
that in order to stimulate access of new borrowers to RISP products, those procedures should be maximally
simplified. In addition, competition among participating banks is essential. In order to achieve this under
the APC II, the number of PFI should be increased.

Very rapid growth of SCAs members, the value and number of credits and deposits shows the high and
unmet demand for these services, but existing inadequate monitoring and supervision systems brings some
concerns. Addressing prudential, supervision and training issues of the system before the second phase of
the Program is an immediate priority of all rural finance component's stakeholders.

The first phase of the APC has established the foundation of an efficient rural advisory services
infrastructure. The network will be pursued under Phase 2 keeping the general principles introduced in the
first phase. However, the advisory network created under Phase 1 needs to remain open for new
developments. Now it is critical to develop the activities more strategically and efficiently. A strategic
vision should be develop of what should be achieved in the coming years and beyond, with specific
objectives to be met during Phase 2 of RISP.

The implementation of rural business development component should be continued through the second
phase of the APC. The component will continue to diversify rural economy, by supporting the creation of
non-agricultural businesses along with agricultural ones. Provision of a permanent post-creation support
will ensure the long-term sustainability of the new businesses.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 26 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased production and productivity in key  Resumption of growth of Ag GDP by at least Projected ag GDP growth in 2003 was 2%;
crop and livestock sub-sectors in the regions 2% per annum                                 however, due to unfavourable weather
where project activities are conducted.                                                    conditions, agricultural production declined in
                                                                                           2003. Agricultural value added in first half of
                                                                                           2003 was 9.7%, declined by 6.2% in the
                                                                                           second half, resulting in a GDP decline of
                                                                                           0.7%
Improved market access and marketing          Ag export growth at GDP growth rate          Ag. exports constituted 68% of all exports in
practices for agro-food producers, measured equivalent                                     2003, and 66.6% in 2002
by increased volume of exports from the
project area.

Increased non-farm employment in rural        Diversified rural economy                    59% (448) of all businesses that started their
areas measured by the number of                                                            activities were non-agricultural;
non-agricultural businesses.

Increased rural income in project areas as    At least 5% growth in real income            Based on the surveys, the average income
compared to the baseline survey.                                                           increase in the businesses in project areas is
                                                                                           23%


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
High awareness among farmers regarding        Advisory services fully functioning          70% of Moldova's rural population are
the availability of rural advisory services.                                               informed about the availability of local
                                                                                           consultant services in villages.
At least 200,000 farmers and rural            200,000 beneficiaries                        300,000 beneficiaries (half of all farmers)
entrepreneurs will have benefited from the                                                 have been reached through various extension
advisory services.                                                                         services.


An increase in the number of clients per      35 SPs and growing                           35 SPs with 447 local consultants.
advisory center.


Variety of different types of advice services Diversified subjects covered in contracts    The SPs provide advice in basic subjects,
provided by service providers.                                                             such as technologies, legal, marketing and
                                                                                           finances, along with a wide range of
                                                                                           specialized services under special contracts.


Viability of service centers as measured by   50% of cost recovery                         50% cost recovery not yet achieved; further
cost recovery of at least 50%.                                                             support required to ensure full sustainability.


Satisfaction of clients with the advisory     A final beneficiary survey as a part of ICR  The average rating of the advisory center
service center network operation.                                                          network services was 4.5 points (max. 5.0);
                                                                                           The professionalism of the local consultants
                                                                                           was rated at 4.48 points (max. 5.0).


Number of rural business and farmer           900 & 600                                    761 businesses implementing their business
organizations created - 900 individual and                                                 plans, including 510 (67%) individual and
600 group businesses.                                                                      252 group businesses


Increased productivity and income for owners Mainstreamed rural lending                    384 first-time borrowing enterprises have
/ members of newly created businesses;                                                     been financed;
improved access to credit from commercial                                                  Average increase in sales of 12%;
banks.                                                                                     Average increase in employee income of
                                                                                           23%;
                                                                                           Improved yields between 3% and 43%.




                                                                 - 28 -

Number and quality of business plans         Over 1000 business plans prepared      1,136 final business plans prepared, of those
submitted to banks for financing.                                                   768 submitted to PFIs for financing, and 658
                                                                                    already financed


Number of beneficiaries (owners/members)     Minimum 2,000 beneficiaries            4,500 beneficiaries under the individual credit
who have received loans under the GCL/SCL                                           lines, and 33,700 SCA members
- at least 2,000.


Increased share of loans to agriculture and  Average rural portfolio grown by 50%   In two years, lending to agriculture in the PFI
rural sectors in PFIs loan portfolios by at                                         portfolios has increased by 40%
least 50%.
Repayment performance - at least 90%         At least 90%                           96%
recovery rate on PFI loan portfolio.

1End of project




                                                               - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Rural Advisory Services                                                  2.95                 2.43                 0.82
Rural Business Development                                               2.49                 1.47                 0.59
Rural Finance                                                           13.75               17.06                  1.24
Project Management                                                       0.50                 0.46                 0.92

Total Baseline Cost                                                     19.69               21.42
 Physical Contingencies                                                  0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                     0.00
                            Total Project Costs                         19.69               21.42
                    Total Financing Required                            19.69               21.42




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              4.34             2.90              7.24
and Training                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.44)            (0.00)           (1.44)
4. Subloans                             0.00               0.00              8.90             0.56              9.46
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.34)            (0.00)           (8.34)
5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.38             0.00              0.38
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.28)            (0.00)           (0.28)
6. PPF Refinancing                      0.00               0.00              0.71             0.00              0.71
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.71)            (0.00)           (0.71)
   Total                                0.00               0.00             14.43             3.46             17.89
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (10.87)            (0.00)           (10.87)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Project contributed towards the creation of viable private sector development: farms, farmer
organizations, and other rural businesses. At Appraisal, the demand driven nature of the Project, and the
built-in credit line, made it difficult to estimate a priori the possible types of investments and their possible
rates of return. Instead, the Project attempted to develop a series of crop budgets and farm models for most
likely types on investments, such as an orchard, a vineyard, a range of processing businesses: a milk
collection center, a grain flour mill, a sunflower oil mill, a small-scale fruit drying line, a harvester
combine, and a tractor with implements. Such types of investments all showed positive incremental net
income and an IRR ranging between 20% - 31%. However, no attempts were made to estimate the
aggregate rate of return for the whole Project, due to the large diversity of activities to be undertaken and
various sizes of land-plots used, etc.

The ICR will, similarly, not attempt, to calculate the rate of return for the whole Project. Yet, the Project's
structure dictated that each of the components would ensure tangible benefits. For example, as illustrated in
Annex 11, the advisory service component ensured increased yields and income for its beneficiaries, the
business development services helped their clients to prepare bankable business plans, and the credit line,
where all lending risks were borne by the PFI, helped to ensure that only viable business propositions were
financed. The Project also emphasized the strengthening of the risk assessment capacity of loan officers and
required PFIs to only make those sub-loans that demonstrated sufficient rates of returns.

Findings from the substantial impact assessments (beneficiary surveys) and the conducted visits to the
beneficiaries demonstrated that significant benefits have resulted under the Project, namely, increased
turnover in beneficiary companies, creation of additional jobs, increased salaries for the borrowers'
employees, increased motivation for entrepreneurship, improved agricultural technologies, etc.

The Beneficiary Survey of the Advisory Service Component showed that in the localities where the local
consultants (LC) were present, the yields were higher than in those localities without a LC, even though the
overall yield per hectare was less than in 2002:

Chart 1. Increases in Yield in the Localities with LCs vs. Localities without LCs, in 2004, compared to 2002

                 Wheat                 36%
                                         41%

                    Rye                    45%
                                              52%

                   Corn                                             112%
                                                                            128%

       Sunflow er seeds                                                    126%
                                                                               136%
                                                                                            Localities without LCs
             Sugar beet                                              115%
                                                                       118%                 Localities with LCs
               Potatoes                                  84%
                                                             94%

   Open field vegetables                                       98%
                                                                 105%

                   Fruit                                  86%
                                                                         122%

                Grapes                                       93%
                                                                  107%


                        0%   20%     40%      60%    80%    100%    120%      140%  160%




The Rural Business Development Component, has encouraged development of over 760 new businesses in
rural areas, and, through providing assistance to these newly developing businesses, has achieved creation



                                                       - 31 -

of employment and increased salaries for rural population, generating tax payments into the Government
budget and social security fund (see the Table below). The average cost of creating a new business is
estimated to be US$900 equivalent, an amount which should go down over time as Development Agencies
continue to increase efficiency. At the same time, the economic benefits are also fairly sizeable. It is
estimated that the businesses: (i) have average sales of US$27,000 equivalent; (ii) pay on average US$600
of taxes for each year they operate (the amount of taxes paid will increase along with the growth of the
companies), and (iii) create on average 4 new jobs.

                          Chart 2. Economic Benefits broken down by DA
 Indicators                                         ACA        CCA       CDR      MEGA        Total/
                                                                                             Average
 Job Creation:
 Number of jobs created at startup                  1095       748       505        834        3182
 Number of additional jobs creted                    410       335       171         99        1015
 Increased Income:
 Average salary of employees in rural buinesses      815       587       632        583         637
 Average salary before the project                   754       377       505        346         411
 Avergae salary increase                                                                       55%




The Rural Finance Component credit line was commercially driven, encouraging the participating financial
institutions to lend only to sub-projects with a viable business concept and sufficient rate of return. This is
proved by the sound portfolio quality with the overall recovery rate of 98.8%. The PFIs were able to
expand their lending activities in rural areas by attracting new first-time borrowers. These borrowers,
having access to borrowed funds, were able to increase their productivity, thus generating additional jobs
and increased income for rural population. Rural borrowers were able to initiate a business relationship
with a commercial lender, and start development of their credit history which will allow them to access
funds independently in the future.

The enterprises that borrowed under the credit line, had the following improvements in 2003, compared to
2002: (a) the average increase in sales was 12%; (b) companies reported a 42% increase in profit compared
to 2002; (c) the value of beneficiaries fixed assets increased on average 1.36 times, and (d) the available
funds in the companies available for working capital needs increase by 35%.

Chart 3. Selected Economic Indicators Post-borrowing in Beneficiary Companies, Comparison between 2002
and 2003




                                                    - 32 -

Working capital



 Fixed assets



   Net income



        Sales


               0    0.5            1    1.5




                         - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/4/1998                  2    TTL (1); OTHER (1)
              10/9/1999                 4    TTL (1); AG ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPER. ANALYST (1);
                                             OTHER(1)
              10/20/1999                6    TTL (1); RF ADVISOR (1); AG
                                             ECONOMIST (1); OPER.
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              4/27/2000                 3    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                             OPEATIONAL ANALYST (1)
              5/2000                  12     TTL (1); AG ECONOMISTS (2);
                                             SECTOR SPECIALISTS (5);
                                             FMS (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             OPER. OFFICER (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              9/23/2000                 3    TTL(1); CONSULTANTS (2)
              12/1/2001                 5    TTL (1); AG ECONOMIST (1)
                                             FIN.SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COSNULTANTS (2)
              3/02/2001                 7    TTL(1); AG ECONOMISTS (2);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALISTS (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              6/08/2001                 9    TTL (1); AG ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FMS (1); CONSULTANTS (6)
              9/26/2001                 4    TTL (1); CONSULTANTS (2);
                                             OPERATIONAL ANALYST (1)
              12/14/2001                3    TTL (1); AG ECONOMISTS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/03/2002                 8    TTL (1); LEGAL (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             DISBURSMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); OPER. ANALYST (1);
                                             OPER. ASSISTANT (1);
                                             OTHER (1)
              7/17/2002                 1    TTL

 Supervision
              12/20/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1); AG.             S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             BANKING CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              5/24/2003                 2    NEW TTL (1); CONSULTANT          S               S
                                             (1)
              9/15/2003                 8    TTL (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1);      S               S



                                              - 34 -

                                                   FINANCIAL SPECIALISTS
                                                   (2); OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                                   CONSULTANTS (3)
               12/17/2004                      4   TTL (1); RURAL FINANCE            S         S
                                                   SPECIALI (1); CREDIT UNION
                                                   SPEC. (1); RURAL POLICY
                                                   SPEC. (1)

 ICR
               5/21/2004                      5    TTL (1); FINANCIAL                S         S
                                                   SPECIALIST (1); RURAL
                                                   ADVISORY SERVICE (1);
                                                   OPERATIONS (1); SCA
                                                   CONSULTANT (1)

Note: Identification/Prepration missions also took place November 1998 (TTL; OPER. ANALYSTS (2)
and CONSULTANT (1)) and April 1999 (TTL; AG ECONOMIST (1) and CONSULTANTS (3)).

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                1,164
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                                 406
  ICR
  Total                                                                     1,570
Note: US$ 406,000 includes the ICR preparation




                                                   - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Project Appraisal Document - Republic of Moldova: Rural Investment and Services Project - Report
    No: 24025-MD, May 22, 2002
 2. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between the Republic of Moldova and the International Development
    Associations, including the Supplementary Letters
 3. Development Credit Agreement - Republic of Moldova: Rural Investment and Services Project, Credit
    Number 3668 MD, June 26, 2002
 4. Project Implementation Manual by Component
 5. Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the MOF and PFIs
 6. Rural Credit Guidelines
 7. General Guidelines for Determining and Addressing Potential Environmental Impacts of Loan
    Activities
 8. CAPMU Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports
 9. Mid-Term Review Report, November 7, 2003
10. Rural Investment and Services Project, Baseline Study, The World Bank, January 2001
11. The World Bank Agriculture Strategy for Moldova, 2000; Updated 2002
12. Impact Assessment Reports:
13. Impact Assessment of ACSA Network, Agrex, Chisinau, January 2003; Updated January 2004
14. Impact Evaluation (Beneficiary Assessment) of the Rural Business Development Component, Agrex,
    Chisinau, May 2002; Updated February 2003
15. Evaluation of the Efficiency, Effectiveness and the Impact of the RISP Rural Finance Component,
    Agrex, Chisinau, September 2003
16. Savings and Credit Association Assessment Report, Agrex, Chisinau, June 2004
17. Audited Financial Statements for the Rural Investment and Services Project ending Years 2002 and
    2003
18. Audited Financial Statements of the Rural Investment and Services Project Participating Financial
    Institutions for Years ending 2001, 2002 and 2003
19. RFC's Statutes and Prudential Guidelines
20. The Legal Capacity Assessment Report, February 2001
21. Moldova: Agricultural Sector Analysis 1998-1999, ARA, Chisinau, 2000
22. Framework Strategy for the Development of Agricultural Sector and Processing Industry, MAPI,
    ROM, Chisinau, July 2000
23. Review of Fruit and Vegetable Processing Sector and Recommendations for Improving Its Current
    Market Performances, G. Amoriggi, TACIS, 1998
24. Moldova Banking Sector Note, The World Bank, October 1999
25. Report: The Network of Savings and Credit Associations, and their Clientele, Baseline Survey, Agrex,
    Chisinau, July 2002
26. Review of the Draft Land Code of the ROM, S.B.Butler, November 2001
27. Financial Management Assessment Report, April 2002
28. Baseline Farm Survey, November 2000
29. Social Assessment, 2001
30. Environmental Assessment, 2002
31. Procurement Assessment, 2002
32. Capacity Assessment of Potential Service Providers, 2001
33. Farm Organization Development Report, DFID, 2001
34. Project documents for Agricultural Pollution Project




                                                  - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Results of the Advisory Services Component

                                       RISP ADVISORY SERVICES COMPONENT
               NUMBER OF SERVICES AND THE FORM OF THEIR PROVISION, ACSA NETWORK
                         Verbal consultations                 Written consultations                   Visits
?        SP
                  techn legal   mark      econ  Total   techn legal   mark   econ   Total techn legal mark   econ Total

1   Anenii Noi     9305  2915    4128     2375  19407     633   32      45      53   932   1948  362   257    177  2806

2   Basarabeasca    730   168      72       77   1047      72   38      12      44   166    210    8    12      7   237

3   Balti          8420  1464    1967     1990  13841      22    4       1      14    41   1472  143   130    274  2019

4   Cahul          7832   532    1645      525  10534     709   26      30      53   818   2063   66    71     80  2280

5   Cainari        6986  1041    1197      603   9827      46    0       0       2    48    841   50    85     17   993

6   Calarasi      12914  1211    3612      758  18495      14    1       2       1    18    898   45    38     58  1039

7   Cantemir       6810  2229    2698     2241  16078     117   31       6      44   256   1406  145   144    197  1987

8   Causeni       12451  2483    4551     2002  21487     309    8      15      28   360   1194   62    65     69  1390

9   Cimislia       3737  1511     810      881   6939      55   14       0      52   121   1166  142    86     55  1449

10  Comrat         3120  1038     531      469   5631     463  193      56      134  882   1593  230    94     92  2074

11  Criuleni       6735  1074    1360      923  10092     150   11      10      16   187    564    8    12     15   599

12  Donduseni     13339  1320    4441     2164  22092     537   30      41      108  797   1671   82    81    239  2090

13  Drochia        8165  2238    2375     1924  15480     149   21      13      34   274   1205  144   178    187  1734

14  Edinet         7923  1026    4220      848  14017      63    8      11      17    99   1951  148   390    118  2607

15  Falesti        3951   717     457      474   5599      22    3       0       5    30    966   30    38     63  1097

16  Glodeni       19948  3207    4134     3426  32216      32   10       4      86   182   1229  200   246    240  2144

17  Hincesti      11238  3414    4191     1744  22731     875  214     116      119 1522    991  161   117    143  1428

18  Ialoveni      16244  1017    1874     1496  20631     123   18       4       7   152   2115  124   125    111  2475

19  Leova          6777  1263    2408      921  11369     447  186      55      82   770   1174  141   165    129  1609

20  Nisporeni      9330  3101    4074     3185  20727     316  122      44      211  780   1847  511   336    452  3208

21  Orhei          9652  2503    3226     1904  19492     214   67      40      89   556   1591  173   176    167  2237

22  Ocnita         6328  1360    1788     1157  10633     262   14       5      18   299    952   56    59     81  1148

23  Rezina         1666   364     631      233   2894     206    7       5      21   239   1324   96    91     80  1591

24  Sîngerei       6248  1073    1597      722   9640      22    0       0       0    22   1297   54    70    346  1767

25  Soldanesti     7873  2131    4174     1928  16106     101   22      18      18   159   1648  208   415    262  2533

26  Soroca         9344  1299    2991      857  14491      52    0       1      15    68   1526   62   123     80  1791

27  Stefan Voda    9494  2165    3419     1530  17556    1098   80      33      77  1502   1622  107    68    108  2050

28  Straseni       5135  1861    1450     1129   9575      54   10       1       3    68   1223  122    93    114  1552

29  Taraclia       2369   488     778      371   4006      52   20       1      40   113   1390   75   175     92  1732

30  Ungheni       10024  1392    1656     1205  14277     275   34      10      46   365   2507  216   186    224  3133

31  Ceadîr Lunga   1489   778     638      401   3306      11   10       6      19    46    308  111   118     87   624

32  Briceni        4387   280     503      200   5370      81   24       0      27   132    742   20    24      6   792

33  Rîscani        4606   191     338      346   5481     192    5       2      41   240    376   13    12      5   406

34  Telenesti      2577  1187     830      483   5077     415   70      26      89   600    740  167   123    128  1158

35  Floresti       2496   157     115      224   2992     270    7       4      27   308    641    7    11      7   666

  ACSA Network   259643 50198   74879    41716 439136    8459 1340     617    1640  13152 44391 4289  4414   4510 58445




                                                     - 39 -

                        RISP ADVISORY SERVICES COMPONENT
            NUMBER OF SERVICES AND THE FORM OF THEIR PROVISION, ACSA NETWORK
                          Round tables                       Meetings                       Seminars
?        SP                                                                                                    TOTAL
                 techn legal mark    econ Total techn  legal mark    econ  Total techn legal mark   econ Total

1   Anenii Noi      11    4      2      4   25     30    44    15      21    110   281   40     24    36  399   23679

2   Basarabeasca    38   12      3      4   57    113    53    40      35    241     7    0      0     0    7    1755

3   Balti           12    5      3     16   36    483    90    74     111    758   108   25      4    37  174   16869

4   Cahul          269   14    29      31  343    148     9    29      10    196   323   29     10    41  403   14574

5   Cainari        119   20    37       7  183    274    67    99      67    507   177   12      2     9  200   11758

6   Calarasi         8   10    16       7   41    193    68    83      32    376    74   11      2     9   96   20065

7   Cantemir       142   63    97      80  391    129    37    21      63    250   296   32     11    56  411   19373

8   Causeni         76   43    16      19  154     90    29    85      62    266   224   42     19    30  315   23972

9   Cimislia        88   38    20      14  160    197   163    91      75    526    56    9      2     2   69    9264

10  Comrat         325   89    46      80  542     81    19     5      16    121   207   34      5    41  287    9537

11  Criuleni       184   25    16      31  256     32    12    11       8     63   172   29      8    19  228   11425

12  Donduseni       91   11    12      51  170    244    13    25      51    333   232   17     12    49  338   25820

13  Drochia         83   79    77      75  326    213    98    72      83    466   182   54      8    66  319   18599

14  Edinet          42   22      8     28  100    331    87    85      85    588   125    9      4    24  162   17573

15  Falesti        178   37    49      61  325    128    32    14      39    213   150   26      3    33  212    7476

16  Glodeni         42   22      8     12  104    213    91   123     132    559   231   35     14    41  344   35549

17  Hincesti       385  137   100     113  787    141    66    84      78    369   162   18      5     9  222   27059

18  Ialoveni        26   20      3     27   76    189    28    13      20    250   121   20      3    13  157   23741

19  Leova          159   51    60      35  305    109    27    47      39    222   295  156     57    45  553   14828

20  Nisporeni       47   12    26      23  112    328   239   198     232    997   148   43      9    53  285   26109

21  Orhei           96   84    71      54  313    152    73    80      76    381   137   23     19    31  223   23202

22  Ocnita          14    9    11       8   42    246    82    74      91    493   124    4      7    16  151   12766

23  Rezina         194   36      5     28  263    313    98   139      98    648   117   15      1    11  144    5779

24  Sîngerei        76   30    14      18  138    127     5    20      16    168   202   41     19    23  285   12020

25  Soldanesti      49   62    33      46  190    173    76    97      84    430   212   36     49    67  364   19782

26  Soroca         137   88   104      73  402    290    70    87      72    519    82   31      1    19  133   17404

27  Stefan Voda    160   57    55      61  350    307    98   102     112    619   332   25     17    54  454   22531

28  Straseni       189  111    50      59  409    359   131   111     196    797    57   14      1    12   84   12485

29  Taraclia       187   34    25      32  278    564    86   137      64    851    36    3      1     1   41    7021

30  Ungheni         46    6      8     11   71    513   164    83     110    870   152   68     21   101  342   19058

31  Ceadîr Lunga   125   51    25      46  247    105    70    53      55    283    16    6      0     4   26    4532

32  Briceni         35   11      9      6   61     44    10    22      20     96    52    5      2     4   63    6514

33  Rîscani         12    0      2      0   14    310    38    71      75    494    25    4      1     7   37    6672

34  Telenesti      212   88    55      81  436    182    80    42      43    347    50   18      2    14   84    7702

35  Floresti        24   14      5      7   50    188    43    42      56    329    37    1      1     2   41    4386

  ACSA Network    3881 1395  1100    1248 7757   7539  2396  2374    2427  14736  5202  935   344    979 7653  540879




                                                   - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. Results of the Rural Business Development Component


Rural Business Development Component

                               Cumulative figures of RISP (Pilot) and SRISP as for                                  31/12/04
                                                     (exchange rate for report (1 USD) is 14.00 MDL)

 Nr                                      Indicator                            Total to        Total to                31/12/04
                                                                              30/11/04     ACA          CCA     CDR       MEGA       Total

1. Number of villages where information campaign held                         1408           356           416        364      272      1408

2. Number of people attending the public meetings                             17759         3203          6961      3374      4305      17919

3. Number of applications for DA support                                      3274           656          1183        613      916      3368
4.  Less those rejected by DA and client                                      1542           292           850        180      238      1560
5.      Sub-total (3-4)                                                       1732           364           333        433      678      1808

6.  of which applications in progress (5-7)                                   190              1            40        82         80       203


7. Service agreements signed                                                  1542           363           293        351      598      1605
8.  Agreements terminated by DA/client                                        462             96           57         97       216        466

9.  remaining Service Agreements active (7-8)                                 1080           267           236        254        382      1139

Of the active Service agreements (in 9 above):

10. RBs started implementing their business/investment plans                  723            212           198        168        183        761

11. In-progress (9-10)                                                        357             55           38         86         199        378
Of those started implementing their business plans (in 10 above):
12. Individualy owned businesses                                              479     ( 66,3  %) 115       145        144        106        510  (67,0 %)
13. Group owned businesses                                                    244     ( 33,7  %) 97        53         24         77         251  (33,0%)

14. RBs generating revenue (of those in 10 above)                             560              159         161        135        131        586

15. RBs with final business plans with DA assistance                          1090             332         250        228        326       1136

16. RBs registered as legal entity with DA assistance                         514              124         104         76        225        529

17. Credit applications to Financial Institutions (FIs)                       938              294         217        198        274        983

18. less those rejected or withdrawn                                          212              88          27         22         78         215

19. Remaining credit applications active (17-18)                                               726         206        190        176        196  768

Of the active credit applications:


20. Loans disbursed to RBs                                                    613              171         178        161        148        658

21. Loans approved but not disbursed                                          25                 4           4          8          6         22
22. Loan applications still being assessed by FIs (19-20-21)                  88               31            8          7        42          88

Of the loans provided (in 20 above):
23. Loans provided from RISP funds                                            452              116         139        140        92         487
24. Loans provided from other sources                                         161              55          39         21         56         171

25. RBs receiving matching grant                                              197              60          63         33         41         197

26. RBs without credit (of those in 10 above)                                 125              44          23         16         40         123

Of those started to implement their busines plan (in 10 above) the activities are:
27. Agricultural                                                              299      ( 41,4%) 106        84         54         69         313  (41,1%)

28. Non-agricultural                                                          424      ( 58,6 %) 106       114        114        114        448  (58,9%)

29. Jobs created (at start-up)                                                3080           1095          748        505        834      3182

29a. Average jobs created per RB (at start-up)                                4                  5           4         3          5          4

30. Total RBs costs of all RB (in 10 above)                                   $9 181 750$3 496 113  $2 166 534 $1 428 673 $2 468 778 $9 560 099

30a. Average RB cost (in 10 above)                                            $12 700      $16 491     $10 942    $8 504     $13 491    $12 563

31. Total RBs costs (of those RBs receiving credit)                           $7 804 007$2 861 861  $2 050 808 $1 346 058 $1 968 854 $8 227 582
    of which

32. of which: - credits1                                                      $5 229 167 $1 949 868 $1 296 649  $811 526 $1 472 802  $5 530 845
33.             - matching grant                                              $442 062      $168 388  $136 825    $40 360    $96 488  $442 062
34.             - contribution of beneficiaries                               $2 132 779    $743 605  $617 333  $494 173    $399 564 $2 254 675

35.            average loan (incl. credit and grant) per RB (in 20 above)     $9 252       $12 387     $8 053     $5 291     $10 603    $9 077




1Five RBs have received subsidies from Soros Foundation in the total amount $5 668.




                                                                                - 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Results of the Rural Finance Component


                                                LOANS DISBURSED FROM RISP CREDIT LINES
                                                                                                 Exchange rate  12.40
   Special Credit Line

                                                                                  External
#                   PFI              # projets  Project's cost  Own contribution                  Credit        Grant     % of total
                                                                                  financing
 1 Moldova-Agroindbank                       70     15,968,471        4,124,426      11,844,045    10,032,431    1,769,614    22.39
 2 Corporatia de Finantare Rurala           198     31,014,315        7,094,016      23,676,019    19,994,960    3,681,059    44.76
 3 Victoriabank                              31      6,215,946        1,654,946       4,391,000     3,908,000     483,000      8.30
 4 Banca Sociala                             22      5,025,343        1,040,082       3,985,261     3,384,109     601,152      7.53
 5 FinComBank                                34      6,208,484        1,725,238       4,403,246     3,982,172     421,074      8.33
 6 Moldindconbank                            29      7,833,732        3,082,500       4,591,232     3,883,496     707,736      8.68
                                            384

             Subtotal SCL              MDL          72,266,291       18,721,208      52,890,803    45,185,168   7,663,635    100.00
                                       USD           5,827,927        1,509,775       4,265,387     3,647,352     618,035

   General Credit Line

                                                                                  External
#                   PFI              # projets  Project's cost  Own contribution                  Credit        Grant     % of total
                                                                                  financing
 1 Moldova-Agroindbank                       48     26,289,091       10,393,208      14,974,280    14,928,120           0     10.39
 2 Corporatia de Finantare Rurala           555    222,838,327        91301897       101496060     101496060            0     70.40
       investment loans                      55     26,201,077        7,323,777      18,702,300    18,702,300           0
       loans to SCAs                        500    196,637,250       83,978,120      82,793,760    82,793,760           0
 3 Victoriabank                              16      6,970,828        2,485,328       4,485,500     4,448,000           0      3.11
 4 Banca Sociala                             17      9,786,668        2,478,728       7,113,940     7,113,940           0      4.93
 5 FinComBank                                 7      4,226,539        1,491,784       2,734,755     2,734,755           0      1.90
 6 Moldindconbank                            22     20,144,290        6,768,391      13,375,899    10,632,668           0      9.28
                                            665

             Subtotal GCL              MDL         290,255,743      114,919,336     144,180,434   141,353,543           0    100.00
                                       USD          23,407,721        9,267,688      11,627,454    11,399,479           0

   Grand Total

                                                                                  External
#                   PFI              # projets  Project's cost  Own contribution                  Credit        Grant     % of total
                                                                                  financing
 1 Moldova-Agroindbank                      118     42,257,562       14,517,634      26,818,325    24,960,551    1,769,614    13.61
 2 Corporatia de Finantare Rurala           753    253,852,642       98,395,913     125,172,079   121,491,020    3,681,059    63.52
 3 Victoriabank                              47     13,186,774        4,140,274       8,876,500     8,356,000     483,000      4.50
 4 Banca Sociala                             39     14,812,011        3,518,810      11,099,201    10,498,049     601,152      5.63
 5 FinComBank                                41     10,435,023        3,217,022       7,138,001     6,716,927     421,074      3.62
 6 Moldindconbank                            51     27,978,022        9,850,891      17,967,131    14,516,164     707,736      9.12
                                           1049

                 Total                 MDL         362,522,034      133,640,544     197,071,237   186,538,711   7,663,635    100.00
                                       USD          29,235,648       10,777,463      15,892,842    15,043,444     618,035


Note as of December 31, 2004




                                                              - 42 -

Additional Annex 11. Beneficiary Surveys

Impact assessment surveys have been done for each component on annual basis. Below is the summary of
the latest beneficiary survey reports under each of the Components:

Rural Advisory Services Component

The survey was carried out late 2003 by surveying 740 beneficiaries of ACSA network services in 77
localities covered by 65 local consultants, and 102 respondents from the localities which do not benefit
from ACSA network consultant services.

The following are the main findings of the survey:

    l One third of Moldova's rural population have heard about the ACSA network, and about 70% are
         informed about the presence of local consultants in the rural areas.
    l 92% of the respondents who have used ACSA network services, mention ACSA as the main
         pertinent source of information and consultations, and 67% stated that ACSA is their first choice
         when they need some information.
    l The most important services provided by the ACSA network consultants are: on plant cultivation
         technologies, followed by business development services, especially selling, then animal breeding
         technologies, and processing technologies.
    l Association, such as through producer cooperatives, etc., in agriculture has been found very
         important for successful development of an agricultural business, however, it can only be
         stimulated, not imposed from outside. ACSA consultants could play a more prominent role,
         especially improving the business efficiency and marketability of the products of these
         associations.
    l 74% of the respondents from the localities with consultants have confirmed they would be willing
         to pay for the services of the consultants, based on the experience of dealing with them. The
         clients were most prepared to pay for the following services: (i) assistance in sales of products
         and inputs purchasing; (ii) accounting and financial services (bookkeeping, fiscal planning;
         investment planning for borrowing); (iii) company management; (iv) human resource organization
         and management, (v) new technologies, new production systems, and equipment implementation
         (modern equipment, quality management systems, ISO, ecological production etc.).
    l The lowest rated types of service offered by the local consultants were the special contracts
         (demonstrations) and field trips for exchange of experience. Although such training is considered
         very practical and hands-on, the respondents thought that the multiplicator effect and
         transferability of results of such experiences were difficult.

    Impact of the ACSA network consultants. Overall, the following progress characterizes the impact of
    the consultant services on the specific rural business activities:

Table 1. Changes occurred due to influence of ACSA's services




                                                    - 43 -

                              Changes Occurred                                 %
 Increase in volume and quality of plant production                           82.6
 Increase in volume and quality of animal production                          50.1
 New business started                                                         12.2
 Improving of products' sale system                                           29.9
 Improving human resource activities                                          13.8
 Improving of financial and accounting activity                               16.0
  Others                                                                       2.2


Source: The BCI survey

Specifically:
l Increases in yield: the increase in yields in the localities with consultants was 3% (sugar beet) to 43%
    (fruits) higher than in the localities without consultants, with the only exception of tobacco, seeing a
    6% drop.

l Increases in income: (a) 62% of respondents in the localities with consultants expected their income to
    be higher in 2004, vs. 53% in the localities without consultants; (b) only 3% of respondents in the
    localities with consultants vs. 7% in the localities without consultants, expected their income to fall in
    2004; (c) of those respondents who indicated their income would grow, 42% expected the increase to
    be between 10% and 19%, 32% expected the increase to be between 20% and 49%, and 11%
    expected that their income growth would be 50% or more compared to the previous year.

l Increased entrepreneurial mindset: In the localities with the presence of local consultants, 84% are
    individual businesses and family farms, while only 16% of respondents are associated as agricultural
    cooperatives, farm associations, Ltd, or have leased their land out to larger farmers. In the localities
    without the ACSA network consultants, 33% are members in an association, however, in most cases
    that means leasing their land to the large farms, and much less direct involvement in producer
    cooperatives or other legal forms of business activities.

The overall assessment of the quality of ACSA network services was very high:

Table 2. ACSA network service grading (on a scale of max 5.0 points)
                             Type of services                           Respondents         Grading, points
                                                                       participated, %
Verbal consultation in the local office                                      90.9                4.68
Verbal consultation out of the office                                        75.5                4.49
Written consultations                                                        39.5                4.32
Consultant's field visits                                                    70.5                4.52
Round table discussions                                                      47.3                4.46
Seminars                                                                     71.4                4.48
Field demonstration of results and efficient methods                         43.5                4.31
Visits in other localities for exchange of experience                        35.0                4.19
Financing on the base of special ACSA's contracts                            11.6                4.16
 Average grade for all ACSA's services                                                           4. 50



Source: The BCI survey

The assessment of the professional qualities of the ACSA network consultants:




                                                      - 44 -

Table 3. Evaluation of the professionalism of the Local Consultants (on a scale of max 5.0 points)
 Professional knowledge in plant cultivation                               4.54
 Professional knowledge in animals breeding                                3.96
 Knowledge in agricultural machinery                                       4.41
 Knowledge in management of an agricultural enterprise                     4.54
 Responsiveness to clients' needs                                          4.70
 Punctuality and time management                                           4.66
 Initiative in the organization of the training and consulting process     4.49
 Organizational spirit                                                     4.42
 Relations with local authorities                                          4.43
 Confidence and esteem from the local population                           4.68
 Average grade                                                             4.48



Source: The BCI survey


Rural Business Development Component

The Impact Evaluation to assess the early results of the Rural Business Development Component (RBDC)
(Survey 1) was carried out in February 2003, followed by the "Evaluation of the Efficiency, Effectiveness
and Impact of the RISP Rural Finance Component" (Survey 2), which reviewed the impact of the RBDC
on the Rural Finance Component beneficiaries.

During the Survey 1, 118 beneficiaries of the DAs were interviewed. Survey 2 had a total of 120
respondents.

The main findings of the surveys include:
    l 10 of the 40 GCL borrowers (8% of the 120 respondents) paid for the business plan assistance
          services provided by the DAs. The payment varies between US$ 50 and US$ 250.
    l Overall, 46% of the combined number of GCL and SCL borrowers interviewed stated they would
          be prepared to pay for the technical assistance services provided by the DAs, which attests to the
          quality of the DAs services.
    l 63% of the 80 SCL borrowers interviewed stated that they would not have been able to start their
          business without the assistance of the DAs. In comparison, in Survey 1, 65% of all respondents
          had stated that they would have started their businesses without the technical assistance of the
          DAs.
    l The quality of training provided by the DAs has improved since Survey 1. The average grade has
          increase by 25%, to 4.4 points.
    l The PFIs have requested that the DAs continue their assistance to the borrowers, as the assistance
          provided increases the probability of the success of the borrowers' businesses.

     Impact of the Development Agencies (DAs):

l Improved quality of Business Plans: The PFIs reject 10% of the business plans that have been
     prepared with the help of the DAs, vs. 30% of the plans prepared by the borrowers themselves or with
     help from others.
l Improved cooperation between the DAs, borrowers and the PFIs. The banks feel more secure lending
     to the clients who are helped by the DAs. In fact, the banks have requested that both the DAs should
     continue supporting the businesses created to ensure their success, and the DAs should be supported



                                                         - 45 -

    during the Phase II.

Rural Finance Component

The assessment of the direct lending activities under the Component was done in the "Evaluation of the
Efficiency, Effectiveness and Impact of the RISP Rural Finance Component" (here: Survey 3), which was
carried out in September 2003, and compares data with two other surveys carried out, closely linked to the
Rural Finance Component: "Evaluation of Rural Business Development Component", May 2002 (here:
Survey 1), and "Evaluation of the Project Impact on Beneficiaries", January 2003, (Survey 2).

The sample for Survey 3 included 120 respondents, of which 40 were borrowers from the General Credit
Line (GCL), and 80 borrowers under the Special Credit Line (SCL).

The Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) were covered in the "Impact Assessment of SCA's Network
and Its Clients". This survey had 1,060 respondents, including 759 active members of SCAs, 175 aspiring
(potential) members, and 126 former members of SCAs.

The main findings of the Survey 3 in respect of the direct lending activities include:
   l 93% of the respondents initiated their business from their own idea, and only in 3% of cases the
         business idea was suggested by the development agencies, which characterizes a high level of
         ownership by the owners of the businesses.
   l 37% of all beneficiaries stated that they would not have been able to start their businesses without
         the support provided by the project. 46% of all respondents stated that they understand and value
         the DA assistance, and they would be prepared top pay for the DA services.
   l Agriculture production, processing and storage remain the most popular types of businesses in
         rural areas:


Table 4. Types of businesses
                                                                    Share
                Type of Activity                     GCL            SCL            Sample
Agricultural production, processing and storage      65%             59%            62%
Construction and repair of machinery and             15%             11%            13%
equipment
Transport and communications                          4%             5%              4%
Construction                                          1%             5%              3%
Trade and catering                                    1%             5%              3%
Other                                                14%             15%            15%
Total                                               100%            100%            100%



Source: Survey 3


   Provision of an active post-creation support to the newly created businesses by the development
   agencies is considered an important factor in ensuring/increasing profitability of the business activities.
   The PFIs considered that the quality of business plans assisted by the DAs is higher than of those
   without the DA assistance, therefore such cooperation between the potential borrower, the DA and the
   PFI should be encouraged.
   The business activities started under the project seem to be sustainable, as almost 70% of beneficiaries
   plan to stay in business at least for the next 3 years. 58% of the respondents stated that participation in



                                                    - 46 -

   the project has allowed to improve the quality of their products, which led to a new market, 50% were
   able to implement modern technologies, and 11% of the respondents were able to start export their
   products.

   Impact of the Component activities in the client companies:

l Increase in sales: The average increase in sales post-project was 12%, in particular in
   micro-enterprises.
l New jobs: One average, the companies have created one new full-time job.
l Increase in income: The average minimum salary in the borrower companies has increased by 60%,
   from US$22 to US$34 per month; the higher end of the salary bracket was raised on average by 13%,
   from US$74 to US$84 per month.
l Non-financial benefits: Indirectly, as stated by the respondents, access to credit has allowed: (a) obtain
   new knowledge to 32% of all respondents, (b) start using more advanced working methods to 50% of
   the respondents, and (c) 58% of the beneficiaries believe the quality of work of the staff has improved.
   65% of beneficiaries have a marketing plan to promote their products or services, vs. 33% at the
   beginning of the project.


 The main findings of the SCA survey include:
    l 92% of the active members joined the SCA to borrow money, and 4% with an aim to deposit their
         savings. Of the new members, 97% see membership in an SCA as a possibility to borrow funds.
    l The ratings of the SCA system provided by the existing members show SCAs providing
         significant advantages to its members over the other players in the financial system:

 Table 5. Assessment of the SCA system by its active members

                                                          Share of Answers

                   Description

                                                    SCAs
                                                           Banking                                 Friends             lenders
                                                                   institutions      Relatives               Informal

  The safest place to keep savings               51%       26%                     3%             0%                 2%
  Highest interest rate on savings               47%       26%                     2%             1%                 4%
  Lowest rate for loans                          56%       14%                     7%             2%                 2%
  Safest method to accumulate money              43%       17%                     3%             3%                 9%
  Fastest place to obtain money                  78%              2%               7%             2%                 6%
  Closest to the place of living                 81%              2%               4%             6%                  -
  Most trustworthy people                        54%              6%               17%            4%                 1%
  Possibility to borrow more money than          39%       20%                     2%             1%         11%
  deposited
  Confidentiality                                50%       24%                     2%             2%                 3%
  Transparency and control over deposit          60%       13%                     1%             0%                 3%
  management



 Source: The SCA survey



 The following were the reasons the members decided to leave the SCA:

 Table 6. Reasons for leaving the SCA




                                                  - 47 -

 H igh interest rates                         2 7 %
 Inability to repay the loan                  2 4 %
 Short period of loans                        2 2 %
 S m a ll size of loans                        8%
 Interpersonal conflicts                       4%
 O ther                                       1 5 %

 Source: The SCA survey

     The question regarding where the SCA members and former members obtain assistance with business
     management issues, revealed that the interviewees seldom seek assistance from the advisory centers or
     the development agencies supported by the project. At the same time, majority of the respondents who
     had difficulties repaying their loans were managing their business alone or with the help of family and
     friends. The main reasons for not seeking professional business management help included: (a) the
     SCA members overestimate their skills in business management; (b) the members are not aware that
     such business management consultancy is available; and (c) those who could provide such
     information, e.g., SCA management, do not sufficiently encourage the SCA members to seek help of
     consultants.

Table 7. Business management support providers


 Family members and friends               70%
 I handle it on my own                    54%
 Farmer advisory centers                   5%
 Members of the SCA board                  4%
 Other members                             3%
 Development agencies                      2%



Source: The SCA survey5

Impact of borrowing from the associations on the businesses of the SCA members:

l Increase in sales: 75% of the interviewed active members of SCAs mentioned that the volume of sales
     in their businesses has increase in 2003; and only 1% have stated that the sales have fallen.
l Increase in family income: Similarly, 75% of the active members stated that there was an increase in
     the income of their families in 2003 vs. only 35% of the active members in 2001. Again, only 1%
     stated that the family income actually fell. Of the former members of SCAs, only 24% registered an
     increase in their family income in 2003, 71% did not have any changes in their family income, and 5%
     mentioned that it fell.
l Reduced migration: 7% of the active members interviewed stated that presence of an SCA in the
     village has contributed to stopping the migration from the village.




                                                    - 48 -

- 49 -

                                                                                                                                       MOLDOVA
                                                                             RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
                                                                                                                           (As of December 31, 2004)

                                                                                                                23,942         COMPONENT 1:                                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                          COMPONENT 2:                          20   17          NUMBER OF ADVISORY SERVICES PROVIDED                             SELECTED MAJOR CITIES
                                             NUMBER OF BUSINESSES UNDER                                         289,107

                                                                     IMPLEMENTATION*                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                               COMPONENT 3:
                                                                          COMPONENT 3:                                                                                                            RAYON BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 NUMBER OF LOANS PROVIDED**
                                           AMOUNT LENT TO BENEFICIARIES,                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                    US$ EQUIVALENT**


                                                                                        *Includes both individual and group enterprises
                                                                                        **Does not include loans to SCAs



                                            27°00'                                    27°30'                               28°00'                   28°30'                    29°00'                  29°30'                  30°00'

          48°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     48°30'


                                                                                         Ocnita
                                                                                 12,766
                                         6,514        Briceni                   12   12                       25,820
                                        12     15                               169,790                       27  17
                                       142,149                                                                143,345
                                                                                             Donduseni
                                                                                Edinet                                             Soroca                                                    U K R A I N E
                                                                      17,573                                        18,599

                                                                     36       22                                    30  19            17,404

                                                                     444,202                                       284,627           35   21
                                                                                                                                     384,060                 Camenca
          48°00'                                                                                                    Drochia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     48°00'

                                                                                   6,672
                                                                                  32   22  Rîscani                                  4,386                     19,782
                                                                                  350,755                                          26   24  Floresti
                                                                                                                                                              12  11
                                                                                                                                   283,589                    144,529

                                                                                                                16,869                                     Soldãnesti
                                                                               Glodeni                                    Balti
                                                                                                                 3    6            12,020                             Rezina       Rîbnita

                                                                                    35,549                      78,056             29   14
                                                                                                                                                                       5,779
                                                                                    26  18                                         286,290
                                                                                                                                                                      11    8
                                                                                   216,832                                             Sîngerei
                                                                                                                                                    7,702             144,685

                                                                                                                Fãlesti                            24  14
                                                                                                                                                   191,326
          47°30'                                                                                   7,476                                         Telenesti                                                                           47°30'
                                                                                                  24           16                                                   23,202
                                                                                                 160,677                                                            52  40
                                                                                                                                                                    861,122
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                           20,065               Orhei
                                                                                                                   19,058                                                             5   2
                                                                                                                                           21  18
                                                                                                                   36   30                                                            19,194
                                                                                                                                           328,350
                                                                                                                   402,702         Cãlãrasi                                               Dubãsari
                                                                                                                    Ungheni                             12,485          11,425
                                                                                                                                                        14   8         17   7  Criuleni
                                                                                                                                  26,109                134,331        146,382
                                                                                                                                  21   16           Strãseni                                   Grigoriopol
                                                                                                                                  236,532
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                  Nisporeni
          47°00'                                                                                                                                                16  31     Chisinãu
                                                                                                                                                                801,044                                                              47°00'


                                                 R O M A N I A                                                                                               Ialoveni   23,741        Anenii  23,679
                                                                                                                                                                       13   3         Noi     13  8
                                                                                                                                            27,059  Hîncesti            83,871               156,992       Tiraspol
                                                                                                                                           43   22
                                                                                                                                           463,587                                                      Bender
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (Tighina)
                                                                                                                                                                                               35,730               Slobozia
                                                                                                                                                                                  Cãinari      20  18
                                                                                                                                                                                               280,172
                                                                                                                                                                9,264                       Cãuseni
                                                                                                                                               14,828           10   4                                        22,531

                                                                                                                                               15   5           56,734                                        20  21
                                                                                                                                                                                                              215,806
                                                                                                                                               81,501       Cimislia                                                                 46°30'
          46°30'                                                                                                                           Leova                                                             Stefan-Vodã


                                                                                                                                                                      1,755
                         0         10          20          30           40         50                                                                 Comrat          1    1
                                                                                                                                                                      40,968   Basarabeasca
                                              KILOMETERS                                                                                          (Gagauzia)
                                                                                                                                         Cantemir
                                                                                                                                                          14,069
                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                       19,373           48  24
                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                          9   6          554,145
                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                      40,995
                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                   Ceadîr-
                                                                                                                                                                    Lunga
                                      27°00'                                        27°30'                                                                                                  U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                                       14,574                                                                                         46°00'
         SWEDEN            Baltic     LATVIA                                                                      46°00'               31  31
                           Sea                                                                                                                          7,021
                          RUSSIAN   LITHUANIA                                                                                          423,669         16   15
                             FED.
                                                                                   RUSSIAN                                                             234,942
                                               BELARUS                                                                                 Cahul
                                                                                FEDERATION                                                                 Taraclia
                         POLAND

           GERMANY
                  CZECH
                   REP.                              UKRAINE
                             SLOVAK
                             REP.
                                                         MOLDOVA
         AUSTRIA                                                                                                                          Vulcãnesti
                          HUNGARY
                        .                                                                          Caspian
                   SLOVCROATIA       ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD
                         BOS.& SERB.                                                                                                                                                                                        Black
                         HERZ.  AND                            Black                                      Sea                                                                                                                                    31916R1
MA      ITALY                 MONT.       BULGARIA              Sea
                                                                                    GEORGIA                                                                                                                                  Sea
  Y                   ALBANIA
   2005
                       FYR                                                                AZERBAIJAN                       Giurgiulesti                                                                                              45°30'
                  MACEDONIA         GREECE                       TURKEY              ARMENIA                      45°30'                     Reni   28°30'                     29°00'                 29°30'                 30°00'

