Report No. 24074
Report No: i060434 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/26/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOLDOVA         Project ID: P060434
Project: RURAL INVESTMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT Task Team Leader: Hoonae Kim
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 27, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 18, 2002     IDA Amount ($m): 10.50
Managing Unit: ECSSD     Sector: AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The main development objective of the project would be to foster
post-privatization growth in the agricultural sector by improving the
access of new private farmers and rural businesses to what they need to
succeed - knowledge, markets, and finance. While pursing this objective,
the project would help reduce poverty by creating income earning
opportunities and improving productivity through complementary technical
assistance and investment support, hence profitability of the investments
supported under the project could be materialized through effective
implementation of the non-credit line components.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project would have four main components: (a) Rural Business
Development Component; (b) Rural Advisory Services Component; (c) Rural
Finance Component; and (d) Project Management Component. The first three
components are closely linked, with each dependent on the others for
successful outcome. The first component focuses on creating viable farm
and agribusiness clients, the second component aims to provide
post-creation support services, and the third component would finance and
transform business concepts into reality. The first two components would
provide combined public investment with technical assistance while the
third component would provide predominantly private investment support
with the necessary technical assistance to participating financial
institutions.
Component A: Rural Business Development Component (estimated at US$ 2.49
million, with IDA financing US$ 0.5 million).
This component would provide technical and financial assistance and
guidance to promote the formation of viable farmer organizations (FOs) and
agribusiness. The purpose of the FO component is to assist farmers in
developing effective, self-owned and sustainable FOs as a means to achieve
some of their objectives, including the designing and implementation of
successful projects. FOs are considered to be an efficient and democratic
tool to enhance rural businesses and services which otherwise would not be
accessible to individual farmers. The Savings and Credit Associations
(SCAs) system which started in 1997 is a good example of a successful FO



movement. Associated support for the component would include enactment
and implementation of a cooperative law, establishment of their legal
status, operational modalities, and management and financial
responsibilities of these groups. Support for agribusiness development
would include providing full information and required documents for
registering enterprises, confirmation of the legal status of newly
privatized agribusinesses, and other legal and institutional support for
new agribusiness enterprises.
Component B: Rural Advisory Services Component (estimated at US$ 2.95
million, with IDA financing US$ 0.5 million).
This component would provide post-creation, business development support
to new, private, farmer organizations and agricultural and rural
entrepreneurs by establishing a business advisory and marketing support
service infrastructure. Rather than creating new entities, this would be
done through tapping into the already existing network of service
providers and augmenting their capacity through capacity building support
and competitive contracting.
Component C: Rural Finance Component (estimated at US$ 13.75 million, with
IDA financing US$ 8.0 million including US $0.45 million of TA).
The Rural Finance Component would provide post-privatization support to
Moldova's agricultural and rural sectors through a variety of credit
instruments, channeled through the commercial banks and other eligible
participating financial institutions (PFIs). This component would provide
investment and working capital credits at commercial terms to support a
broad range of private agricultural and rural enterprises owned by joint
stock companies, limited liability companies, cooperatives, and
individuals.
There would be three credit line facilities under this component:(a) a
general commercial credit line; (b) a special credit line with a "matching
grant"; and (c) a microfinance credit line. In parallel, the project would
strengthen capacity in commercial banks, and RFC which are willing to lend
to the rural population, but lack experience in doing so. Support would
also be provided to Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs), State
Supervisory Body (SSB), and National Federation of SCAs (NFSCAs). The
main focus of training for the commercial banks would be to strengthen
their lending capacity for small-scale, widely dispersed agricultural and
rural economic activities with minimum transaction costs. Achieving this
goal will require intensive and focused training of loan officers,
simplifying of appraisal procedures, and also reducing field costs. One
commercial bank expressed their interest in exploring a mobile loan
officer concept which has been tested and proven effective in other
countries in the region. Such efforts would be complemented by other
legal and regulatory support on developing moveable collateral,
strengthening the collateral system, valuation of land and development of
a land market, etc. which are being pursued in other Bank supported
operations. More detailed description of the component is in Annex 2.
Component 4: Project Management Component (estimated at US$ 0.5 million
with IDA financing US$ 0.4 million)
This component would provide technical and financial support for project
management. Project implementation and supervision would be the
-2 -



responsibility of the Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit
(CAPMU), which has demonstrated its capability to manage the
implementation and preparation of Bank-funded projects in Moldova's rural
sector (First Agriculture Project, Rural Finance Project and Rural
Investment and Services Project). CAPMU staff would handle common
administrative functions and help develop the necessary administrative and
financial management skills in the various agencies and field units that
would implement the different project components. Some funds may be set
aside for special studies in areas not directly covered by the project
components, including, for example, the consolidation of fragmented land
holdings into viable farms. The budget for the project management
component would also include funding for project monitoring and evaluation
activities as well as for the annual audits of the project accounts.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented countrywide based on demand for services
and credit. Project activities would not be located in protected areas.
Where potential micro-projects are proposed in the vicinity of protected
areas or critical habitat, a specific environmental assessment would be
required.
In south-eastern Moldova, the Project will cofinance a GEF funded Dniester
Biodiversity Conservation Project that will support creation of a Lower
Dniester National Park and promote sustainable natural resource management
practices for rural population surrounding the proposed Park.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments: The proposed project was given the environmental category FI
given that the main Project Component - Rural Finance - would provide
post-privatization support to Moldova's agricultural and rural sectors
through three credit line facilities:(a) a general commercial credit line;
(b) a special credit line with a "matching grant"; and (c) a microfinance
credit line. These credit lines are demand-driven, and the actual
investments which they would support would only be known after project
implementation begins. Other supporting Components - Agrobusiness
Development and Rural Support Services - do not involve any environmental
issues, and would only promote more environmentally sustainable practices.
A comprehensive environmental review has been carried out by the project
team. The review (i) assessed the adequacy of the legislative framework
for environmental assessment; (ii) identified institutions that would be
responsible for the EIA under RISP; (iii) determined TA and training needs
for these institutions to adequately implement the EIA requirements; and
(iv) proposed procedures for environmental screening, EIA preparation and
implementation, possible mitigation measures for certain sub-project
types, and monitoring and evaluation of implementation of EIA requirements.
The main characteristics of the current EIA process in Moldova are:
n The EIA procedures are applicable to complex and potentially dangerous
(to the environment) projects that could lead to significant impacts
(applicable agricultural activities include sugar refinery, meat and dairy
-3 -



enterprises, etc).
n The EIA is prepared by the project proponent (the farmer), conducted by
national certified experts of MEPTD, and is subject to public and
ministerial revisions, and final adoption by MEPTD. A positive decision on
the EIA provides the official basis to initiate detail project design.
n The mitigation measures and the environmental management plan are
incorporated in detailed project design to be approved by either central
office of the State Ecological Expertise, or by its Zonal Ecological
Agencies.
Currently the EAI requirements of Moldova do not apply to most of the
small projects such as those that will result from the RISP. CAPMU will
have the responsibility for monitoring sub-projects implementation,
including ensuring that the sub-projects meet the environmental
requirements of the country and are consistent with the Bank's guidelines.
A finalized Environmental Section of the Rural Credit Guidelines for PFIs
under RISP, subject to Bank's approval, will be submitted to InfoShop
prior to Board consideration.
The Project will not support loans for pesticide purchase, production or
distribution.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No major environmental impact is anticipated under the proposed project,
given the relatively small size of most of the sub-projects to be
supported. Certain projects types may require special environmental
mitigation measures to protect environment and quality of the natural
resources. Environmental Guidelines establish mechanisms for identifying
such sub-projects, and mitigation measures to be carried out as part of
the EIA. Most of the potential impacts will be avoided or minimized
through applying a set of good practices that can be directed to farmers
through the advisory Component. Advisors to include the advice on
environmental and agricultural sustainability matters when advising on
agricultural production matters to their clients. In addition, general
- 4 -



environmentally friendly behavior of the rural population will also be
promoted and encouraged through two parallel GEF grant funded projects
(Agricultural Pollution Control Project and Dniester Biodiversity
Conservation Project) for mainstreaming environmental considerations into
agricultural practices, leveraged by RISP and to be implemented under the
RISP framework. These project will also provide an incentive structure for
farmers and supporting extension service to enhance agricultural
productivity in an environmentally friendly manner.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Cumulative impacts are not expected to be significant. However, since
there are about 6,000 small loans anticipated to be issued under the
Project, potentially it is possible that many loans could be concentrated
in a small region and produce a minor cumulative effect on environment
from increased agricultural activity. Prevention and mitigation mechanisms
for individual credits established under the Project, as described in this
document, will diminish these potential impacts.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
No long term impact anticipated.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
No alternatives required.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Arrangements for addressing Environmental Safeguards are described in
Section 5 of the PAD on Environment.
Since preventive measures are favored over mitigatory or compensatory
measures whenever feasible, the Project will build capacity in CAPMU,
supported by a parallel GEF funded Agricultural Pollution Control Project
(APCP), to avoid or minimize potential environmental impacts. For the
majority of the sub-projects, an EIA will not be required by Moldovan law
because of the small size of investments (micro-credits), however the
Project has established mechanisms allowing for an EIA to be conducted,
where required, in order to meet World Bank guidelines and Moldovan law.
It will be the responsibility of the CAPMU and the lending institutions to
environmentally screen each proposed activity. Environmental concerns will
be mitigated in the selection and implementation of sub-projects.
Environmental Review that has been carried out describes exiting
environmental regulations and standards for enforcing environmental
standards. The Rural Credit Guidelines, finalized based on the Review,
describe procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full
consideration of environmental safeguards, in accordance with the Bank
environmental safeguard guidelines, and provide detailed guidelines on
environmental screening, appraisal and monitoring applied to
microprojects. Each sub-project will be individually screened and reviewed
by PFIs, and if needed by CAPMU, for any negative impacts, and mitigation
measures (a sample screening check-list and EMP is attached to the
Guidelines). Training will be provided to CAPMU specialists to carry out
the evaluation and monitoring of sub-projects according to environmental
- 5 -



safeguards.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Private farmers, rural entrepreneurs, commercial banking system and RFC,
and rural communities are the key stakeholders.
A workshop was held with a number of NGO representatives and government
specialists to identify major issues and problems, including
environmental, facing rural people and how these problems would be best
addressed. Results from the workshop were supplemented with a background
description of agricultural and rural conditions, and current activities
in Moldova. These two initiatives provided a base upon which a number of
assumptions in terms of probable agricultural and rural activities to be
supported through the project would be made. Also, the Environmental
Review was carried out on the basis of discussions with the Ministry of
Environment.
Stakeholders will be consulted, depending upon the nature of the proposed
project, during the screening process, during the development of plans to
address potential environmental impact, and during sub-project supervision
to assess environmental aspects. A borrower will be informed and consulted
with if a need for EIA is determined by a lending institution and CAPMU,
at which point the borrower will choose whether to proceed with EIA or
cancel its application. When possible, experts within municipalities and
local offices of the Ministry of Environment will participate directly in
the preparation of environmental assessments and plans. During Project
implementation, sub-projects will be assessed for implementation of
environmental standards.
Based on Moldovan regulations, MEPTD is obliged to provide draft laws,
statements and programs to the public. In the case of new economic
activities, the proponent must inform the local authorities (Prefectura
and Primaria) of his/her intentions and ensure the presentation of all
required project documentation. Local authorities are obliged to inform
the public, guarantee public access to the materials and provide any
public feed back to the proponent. Public input is obligatory for a range
of activities, including construction of irrigation schemes, soil erosion
protection systems, vineyards and orchards established within watercourse
protection zones, and projects requiring formal EIA. MEPTD or local
authorities should inform the general public on the decision made and
approval of project's documentation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[   S3. - No safeguard issues
- 6-



[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Hoonae Kim       04/08/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        John Ambrosse   04/01/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name     Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz  04/25/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Laura Tuck      04/25/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 7 -



