                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         ReportNo.: 48760




                PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                     MOLDOVA

             RURALINVESTMENT AND SERVICESPROJECT(APL)
                             (CREDITS36680 and 36681)



                                    June 22,2009




IEGSE
IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Moldovan Lei (MDL)

1999            US$l.OOMDLlO.S               2004             US$1.00MDL12.3
2000            US$l.OOMDL12.4               2001             US$l.OOMDL12.9
2002            US$I.OOMDL13.6                2003            US$ .OOMDL13.9
2005            US$l.OOMDL12.6                2006            US$ .00MDL13.1
2007            US$l.OOMDL12.1                2008            US$ .OOMDL10.4

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSA            Agency for Consultancyand Training in Agriculture
APC             AdaptableProgramCredit
CAPMU ConsolidatedAgriculturalProjects Management Unit
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CIS             Commonwealthof IndependentStates
DA              DevelopmentAgency
DLC             Credit Line Directorate of MOF
ESW             Economic and Sector Work
GCL             GeneralCredit Line
GEF             GlobalEnvironmentFacility
GOM             Government of Moldova
ICR             ImplementationCompletionReport
IEG              IndependentEvaluationGroup
IEGWB IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)
LC              Local Consultant
LSDP            Letterof Sector DevelopmentPolicy
MAIB            MoldovaAgroIndBank
M&E             Monitoring andEvaluation
MAFI             Ministry of Agriculture& FoodIndustries
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOU              MemorandumofUnderstanding
NBM             National Bank of Moldova
NCFM            NationalCommissionfor FinancialIntermediaries
NFSCA NationalFederationof Savings and Credit Associations
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
PAR              Portfolio at Risk
PFI              ParticipatingFinancialInstitutions
PPAR             Project PerformanceAssessment Report
PSC              ProjectSteeringCommittee
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
RFC              RuralFinanceCorporation
RBD              RuralBusiness Development[Component]
SCA              Savingsand CreditAssociation
SCL              Special Credit Line
SIDA             SwedishDevelopmentAgency
SP               Service Provider
SSB              State Supervisory Body
TACIS            Technical Assistance to Commonwealthof IndependentStates

Fiscal Year

Government:                January 1-December 3 1


Director-General,Evaluation                                   : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)             : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, IEGSE                                                : Ms.Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                                  : Mr. JohnR. Heath

                                                              i


 IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent EvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Banks self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results, and second,to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks lending operationsthrough field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
which Executive Directorsor Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Riskto Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                             iii


Contents

PRlNClPAL RATINGS                 ........,...........................................................................................................V

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                         ..........................................................................................................        V

PREFACE......................................................................................................................................                 VI1


SUMMARY      ..................................... ...................... ...........................................................................IX

1.       BACKGROUND                 ..............................................................................................         ....................1

2.       PROJECT OBJECTIVESAND DESIGN                                          ........................................ ...................................1

3.       OUTCOME           ..........................................................................................................................           2




4.       MONITORING& EVALUATION                                  ......................................................................................        10

             M & E Design ............................................................................................                       ..................10
                                                                                                                                             ..................10
             M & E Utilization .......................................................................................................................
             M & E Implementation ...........................................................................
                           ..                                                                                                                                  10


5.      RISK TO DEVELOPMENTOUTCOME                                           ....................................................    .......................11

6.      BANK PERFORMANCE                            ..................................................................................................12
             Quality at Entry........




7.      BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                   .....................................................       .................................. I 3

             Government Performance ........................................................................................................                   13
                                                                                                                                                               13
             Overall Rating...........................................................................................................................
             Implementing Agency Performance .........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                               14


8.      LESSONS LEARNED                         ..............................................................................      ........................14


This report was preparedby Richard Burcroff(Consultant), with guidancefrom John R.Heath and Nalini
Kumar (Task Team Leaders). Mr.Burcroff visited Moldovato assess the project in February2009. Marie
Charles provided administrative support.

                                                                                         iv


9.        REFERENCES                      .................................................................................................................                         16


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
              .                                             ..................................................................................................                      17


ANNEX B       .LOGFRAME                    MATRIX (KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS)                                                              ..................................      21


ANNEX C       .APC         PROGRAMTRIGGERS FOR RlSP2                                                 .................................................................              23


ANNEX D       .LOANS             DISBURSED FROM RISP CREDIT LINES                                                      ...................................................          25


ANNEX E      .COMMERCIAL                        BANKS IN THE PROJECT: BASIC INDICATORS                                                                ..........................    27


ANNEX F RESULTS OF THE RURAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
             .                                                                                                                       ........................................       29


ANNEX G       .ACTIVITIES                 OF THE ACSA NElWORK                                     ....................................................................              31


ANNEX H BORROWER'SCOMMENTS
              .                                                             .....................................................................................                   33


Tables

Table 1. Amounts disbursed -including reflows . reimbursed under RlSP Iand REP II projects as of December
                                                                            and
31. 2008............................................................................................................................................................................ 8
Table 2. Sector Distribution of PFI Lending. 2008............................................................................................................ 8

                                                     V



PrincipalRatings
                                        /CR*                   /CR Review*                    PPAR
- ~ - -
Outcome                         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Institutional
Development
Impact**
                                Substantial                Substantial
Risk to                                                                               Significant
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***                  Likely                Non-evaluable
Bank                            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department.The
ICR Review is an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**AS of July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1, 2006, Sustainabilityhas been replaced by Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.As the scales are
different,the ratingsare not directly comparable.

Key StaffResponsible
Project             Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/              Country Director
                                                     Sector Director
Appraisal                  Hoonae Kim                   Laura Tuck                   Roger Grawe
Completion           Pierre-Olivier Colleye             Benoit Blare1               Luca Barbone


                                                 vii


Preface

This is a Project PerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR) for the RuralInvestmentand Services
ProjectinMoldova.The Project (Credit 36680) was the first stage ofanAPL for US$10.5
million equivalent, approved on June 20, 2002. A supplementalcredit (C36681) for US$ 5.0
millionwas approvedinApril 2004 to provideadditionalfunds for the project'scredit
component, whichwere inhighdemand.Co-financinginthe amount ofUS$ 1.36millionwas
furnished by the UK'sDepartmentfor InternationalDevelopment(DfID) to support rural
business development inthe project, US$O.88 million fromthe SwedishDevelopmentAgency
(SIDA) for matchinggrant resourcesandtechnicalassistancesfor projectfinancial
intermediaries, andUS$0.70 millionfromthe EU's former TACIS facility (TechnicalAssistance
to Commonwealthof IndependentStates) for the ruraladvisory services component.
Beneficiarieswere also able to secureUS$0.20 million in matching grant fundingunderthe GEF
financedAgriculturalPollutionControlProject. Bothcredits were closed onDecember 31,2005,
the date establishedat appraisal. An ImplementationCompletionReportwas submittedonApril
14, 2005.

This reportwas preparedby the IndependentEvaluationGroup (IEG) basedonthe
ImplementationCompletionReports, StaffAppraisalReports, LoanAgreements, as well as a
reviewofBank files. An IEGmissionwas in MoldovainFebruary 2009, andheldinterviews
with a number of stakeholders, includingrepresentativesofGovernmentandthe implementing
agencies, includinglocal staff, direct beneficiaries andother donors inMoldova.The cooperation
and assistanceof all stakeholders and governmentofficialsis gratefullyacknowledged. The
assessment is part of a cluster of four PPARsbeing carriedout to provideinputto IEG's ongoing
Agriculture andAgribusiness Evaluation.

FollowingstandardIEGprocedures, a copy ofthis Annex report was sent to governmentofficials
and agenciesfor their reviewandcomments.The Borrower'sresponseis attachedat Annex H.


                                               ix


Summary

The Moldova Rural Investmentand Services Project (RISPl) was the Bank's first attempt
inthis country to consolidate informationand financial services targeted at the rural
population. The project was intendedto be the first phase o f an Adaptable Program
Credit (APC). The designtook account o f lessons learned from previous Bank-supported
operations-the      lStCadastre Project and the Rural Finance Project-and      from dialog with
the government and donors. RISPl helpedto keep ontrack the earlier reforms to
agricultural pricing and marketing and the agricultural trade regime; and to consolidate
gains from landprivatization inthe face o f resistance from the recently displaced
managers o f Moldova's privatized collective farms and others. The project also
showcased ECA's new regional strategy for agriculture-which          sought to promote farm
productivity and rural enterprise developmentthrough complex investment projects
rather than through renewed sector adjustment lending.

RISP1 supported a first phase o f reform to Moldova's agricultural technology systemand
business development services, and its rural financial markets. The project introduced
private contracting for farmer information services; and organized business development
services. Buildingon the recommendations made by these services, the project offered
credit lines to existing and newly-registered rural enterprises and to farm households.An
initial credit o f US$10.5 million equivalent was approved on June 20,2002. A
supplemental credit for US$ 5.0 million was approved inApril 2004, to provide
additional funds for the project's credit component. Both credits closed, as expected, on
December 31,2005. The APC's second phase, known as the Second Rural Investment
and Services Project, was approved February 2,2006. REP2 was designedto scale up
parts o f the first project.

Project outcome i s ratedSatisfactory. Under a competitively-bid contract, the non-profit
Agency for Consultancy and Training inAgriculture established a network o f private
extension consultants throughout Moldova, providing service to 384,000 agricultural
producers (over one-half o f all farmers). The project's final beneficiary survey indicated
a substantial shift to higher value-added production by project beneficiaries compared
with non-participants, and a considerable increase incrop yields and animal productivity.
By the credit closing date, 761 enterprises were implementingbusiness plans financed by
project subloans; 384 ofthese were first-time borrowers. Agribusiness (especially
processing) was the main activity o f most enterprises assisted by the project. Sales went
up by 12percent and employee incomes rose by 23 percent.

The RISPl credit component was a success. Under the subsidiary lendingagreements, it
was left entirely up to project financial intermediaries (PFIs) to select borrowers, approve
subprojects, and set lendingterms. PFIs bore the lending risks and were free to establish
on-lending interest rates sufficiently above the costs o f capital to offer a reasonable
return.PFIs offered a fullrange of banking services to rural clients, andtheir rural
lendingportfolios grew by 40 percent. Inparts o fthe country where cash and in-kind
exchanges hadbeenthe norm, a credit culture developed. The project's credit lines
benefited4,500 people, and 33,700 members o f savings and credit cooperatives

                                               X



participating inthe project. Repayment rates were around 96 percent and losses were
minimal.

Despite the project's positive results, the risk to development outcome i s rated
Significant owing to the effect o f the global financial crisis-particularlythe collapse in
remittances, which once made up 36 percent o f Moldova's GDP. The fall inexport
earnings and the growing reluctance o f partnerbanks to renewcredit lines to Moldovan
intermediaries will leadto a weakening o f the Moldovancurrency and i s likely to put
pressure on the budget as well as harming the financial sector.

Bankperformance is ratedSatisfactory. The Bank made a critical contribution duringthe
two-year design phase. It then led an intensive supervision effort, which had to contend
with government backtracking on reform. The supervisionteam remainedlargely the
same throughout-although     the task team leader changed once.

Borrower performance i s also rated Satisfactory. The relevant government departments
remained actively involved inpreparation and implementation. Counterpart funding
commitments were honored. The project management unit was well staffed and
competently led, suffering a minimumo f bureaucratic interference. Under RISP1,8 o f
the 9 conditions for continuingthe APC program were met; and backing was secured for
RISP2.

Five lessons may be drawn:

       (1) Conditionsattachedto projects,particularlythose bearingon sector
       developmentpolicy,should be proportionateto projectscale; otherwise,
       they should be consignedto other operations.Government sent a policy
       letter to the Bank and signed a memorandum o f understanding, inthe hope
       that broader policy reforms would be supported by a 3'd Structural
       Adjustment Credit. But SAC111was dropped from the Moldova lending
       program after an unsuccessful 2"d Tranche Review, burdeningRISP1with
       the added responsibility ofaddressing the broader reform agenda.

       (2) Credit agreements and project budgets should be sufficientlyflexible
       to allow for changes inproject financial intermediariesduring
       implementation. RISP1allowed any pre-qualified financial intermediaryto
       apply to borrow project funds under subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs)
       with the Borrower. Eligibility criteria were established inthe preparation
       phase and a number o f PFIs were evaluated. However, the demand for
       project resources was greater thanthe available funds so that resources had
       to be rationed between the competing intermediaries. The rules neededto
       allow new intermediaries to take part inthe competition; and to include the
       option o f assigning funds by auction.

       (3) Grant elements in credit linesmay not havethe intendedeffect. A
       grant element was included inthe credit line for enterprise start-ups inorder
       to accommodate businesses with weaker collateral. But, inpractice, the

                                      xi


same collateral requirementswere applied, whether or not a grant was
attached to the loan.

(4) Credit lines involvingmultiplesubloans requirea considerable
delegationof fiduciary responsibility.InRISP1,delegation worked
because: (i) from the start, banks and borrowers receivedclear advice about
the available credit lines; (ii)the project management unitbuilt upthe
expertise to conduct a major part o fthe screening process, leaving the Bank
to prior-review larger loans and post-review smaller ones; and (iii) to
                                                                    thanks
the technical assistancereceived from partners, banks were able to improve
their subloan applications so that, whenneeded, prior reviewcouldbe
conducted expeditiously.

(5) Providingconsultingservices to help small entrepreneursprepare
and implementbusiness plans is as criticalfor the success of rural
finance programsas providinglong-termcredit. Combining financing
with technical assistancehelpedto makeRISPl a success. Providing long-
term fundingto rural businesses was vital. But without the Business
Development Services component, it i s unlikely that the credit line would
have disbursed.




                                               Vinod Thomas
                                              Director-General
                                                 Evaluation


                                                1


1. Background

1.1     The decollectivization that followed Moldova's Independence in 1991 led to a near
collapse inagricultural production, productivity, and exports. In2000, when the project was
mooted, agricultural GDP was less than one-half o f its 1990 level, having sufferedthe largest
fall inthe ECA Region. At the project designphase, a poverty assessment identifiedlandless
agricultural workers as among the poorest o f the poor inMoldova. On a more positive note,
during the two to three years before project approval, there had been substantial progress in
the key areas of landprivatization and farm restructuring.

1.2     Project preparation startedafter the Russianfinancial crisis (1997-98), a badtime for
Moldova. Transition reforms were incomplete, the conditions o f an Extended FundFacility
had not beenmet, and the country was heavily dependent on CIS markets, makingit
vulnerable to the regional downturn. Russia made up 60 percent o f Moldova's export market.
The private sector was underdeveloped, the country had little access to western markets, and
foreign direct investment was limited. Moldova was not well placedto bounce back from the
external shock and redirect exports to other markets.

1.3     The National Bank had weathered the onset o fthe crisis and the move to a floating-
exchange rate. By 2000, liquidity was tight but the legal and regulatory framework for
banking was sound, internationally accepted accounting standards were inplace and all
former state banks had been privatized. However, the range o f financial services available
was limited, especially inrural areas. Business developmentservices were rudimentaryand
there were no specialized advisory services, either public or private, for farms and
agribusinesses.


2.      Project Objectives and Design

2.1     The project (RISPl) was the first o fa two-phase Adaptable Program Credit. The
Project Appraisal Document indicates that the objective of the program was to provide long-
term support to agricultural growth, thereby pushingup incomes and reducing poverty.

2.2     Inthe wake o flandprivatization, RISPl sought to bolster agricultural growth by
giving newly-fledged private farmers and rural businesses ownership titles, knowledge,
knowhow, and finance. Project objectives were not revisedduringimplementation. The
specific objectives o f RISPl were:

       (i)Tosolidifyprivateownershipoflandandotherproductiveassets;

       (ii)Tocreateviableruralentrepreneurial, legalandorganizational structures;

       (iii) establishaprivateagriculturalsupportservicessystemincludingadvisory,
            To
           input and output supply, marketingand business development support; and

                                                  2


         (iv) To establish a self-sustaining rural finance system to serve a large numberof
             dispersedrural clients throughout the country.

2.3     The project had four components:

         (i) RuralAdvisory Services (US$2.95 million at appraisal; $2.43 million
             actual) -- tofinance service contracts and training to establish a nationwide
             network of rural advisory service providers;

         (ii) BusinessDevelopment (US$2.49millionatappraisal; $1-47million
              Rural
             actual) -- tofinance technical assistance, training, and operational support
             for local development agencies to expand the basic advisory information
             under the first component by providing support for the preparationo f
             business strategies, business plans, and the preparationo f loan packages;

         (iii) Finance(US$13.75millionatappraisal; $19.61millionactual-r
              Rural
             $24.6 1 million, including the $5 million supplemental credit approved in
             April 2004)  -- buildingon  the successful pilot results inthe RuralFinance
             Project, to provide both a general commercial credit line and a special credit
             line with a matchinggrant component; and

         (iv) Project Management (US$0.5 million, $0.46 millionactual) -- to provide
             technical and financial support for project management with implementation
             o f responsibilityunder the Consolidated Agriculture Project Management
             Unit(CAPMU).

2.4     Inadditiona ProjectPreparation Facility (PPF) was providedto support pre-project
activities, including the early start-up costs associated with the operation o f the CAPMU,
which was established for the project and Service Providers, as well as initial training and
preparations for implementing the credit lines.


3.       Outcome

RELEVANCE
3.1     Designofthe APC program and the first-phase project that i s the focus o fthis
assessment (RISPl) was based on the findings and recommendations o f the World Bank's
Agriculture Strategy for Moldova (World Bank 2001), the Government's Strategy for
Agriculture and Agro-processing Development, and the Bank's FY99 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The design also reflected lessons fromthe earlier Rural Finance Project
(FY98), which supported development of the RuralFinance Corporation and its network of
(micro-) Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs).

3.2      The Letter o f Sector Development Policy (negotiated in2001,signed May 2002) and
the associated Memorandum ofUnderstanding(December 2001) were negotiated as part of
the preparationofRISPl andthe 3rdStructural Adjustment Credit (SACIII). At appraisal, it

                                                 3


was assumed that policy dialogue would be conducted under the aegis o f SACIII andthat the
two-phase APC would provide complementary investment.The Program continues to be
relevant and current inthe context o fthe final drafts o f the Government's Economic Growth
and Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper and the Country Assistance Strategy for 2005-2008.
Bothdocuments outline reforms which RISP1and RISP2 have addressed.

3.3     Donor coordination was effective. The project was co-financed by DFID, SIDA, and
the EU's former TACIS facility; it also received support from GEF.The other donors each
brought particular skills to bear. For example, DFID contributed expertise inbusiness
development services. Inclusion o f "softer" elements inthe design(e.g. the grant element in
the Special Credit Line)contributed to atimely draw-down o fdonor proceeds. Inparallel,
USAID helped Governmentestablish one-stop shopping procedures for enterprise start-ups,
reducing the time requiredto register a new enterprise and obtain the needed licensing and
permissions.

3.4     Between 2000 and 2004, Moldova inched from 16thto 14' inECA's rural reform
matrix, which ranks the 27 transition countries o f Central and Eastern Europe and the CIS.
Inbothyears Moldova placedinthe middleofthe matrix, as a "moderate" reformer. RISPl
helpedMoldova to preserve this status. With the early removal o f SACIII from the lending
program following the Bank's decision not to release the second tranche, the RISPl became
the main vehicle for monitoring compliance with the agricultural sector commitments inthe
Policy Letter-the    only part o f SACIII to be carried out satisfactorily.

Relevance of Objectives

3.5     The relevance o fproject objectives is ratedsubstantial. Overall, the project's four
development objectives were consistent with the FY1999 Country Assistance Strategy and
Moldova's Strategy for Agriculture and Agro-processing Development.

3.6     The RISPl's first objective, to solidijjprivate ownership of land and other
productive assets, built on foundations laid by a US AID-supported landprivatization project
and the Bank's 1'` Cadastre Project, which developed an automated land recording and land
registration system country-wide. These interventions were indispensable for the working o f
a land market.However many land reform beneficiaries were not aware o f their new land
rights; anddid not know how to protect them from incursionby local authorities. The RISP1
was intended to help Government address these challenges.

3.7     Theproject's second objective, to create viable rural entrepreneurial, legal and
organizational structures, was also relevant. Underthe rural investment climate prevailing
before the project was launched, there was little technical and financial information
available; and no business development services for enterprise start-ups. Rural entrepreneurs
relied on their personal networks for advice on how to register, finance and operate a
business; these contacts were often limitedand poorly informed. There was little training
available on basics such as market assessments,businessplanning, accounting, licensing,
taxation, and personnel management. The project sought to fillthese gaps.


1 World Bank (200 1;2005).

                                                 4


3.8      The third objective, which aimed to establish aprivate agricultural support services
system including advisory, input and output supply, marketing and business development
support, made sense. The breakup o f collective enterprises and the disappearance o f
centralized production, marketing and input supply services left the new landowners with
little support. The extent o f this vacuum was documented by a Rural Gap Assessment (1999)
and a Baseline Survey (2001), both conducted duringproject preparation. The project
addressedthe agriculture service gaps that made it harder for small farmers to make the
transition from subsistence to commercial farming.

3.9      Objective four sought to establish a self-sustaining ruralJinance system to serve a
large number of dispersed rural clients throughout the country. Landprivatization and rural
decollectivization was accompanied by the disappearance o f state-owned rural finance
institutions. Fledglingprivate farmers lackedthe cash and the other assetsrequiredby
commercial banks as equity contributions and collateral. Land i s a legitimate source o f
collateral; but banks are disinclined to accept it. At project inception, only the larger
commercial farms were able to obtain loans from commercial banks. It was therefore valid
for the project to seek to broaden access to financial services.

Relevance of Design

3.10    Design relevance i s also ratedsubstantial. With respect to the first objective, the
RISP1 preparation team correctly identifiedthe need for post-privatization legal services
covering the leasing, buyingor selling o f land, the urgency of educating new landowners
about their legal rights, and the demand for information about available properties and prices.

3.11    To help achieve the second and third objectives the project included specific
components for developing private business and rural advisory services and providing
information on prices, technologies, inputmarkets and agronomic and business practices.

3.12    Insupport o fthe fourth objective project design includedinitiatives: (i) prequalify
                                                                                    to
financial intermediaries under subsidiary loan agreements signed with the Ministry o f
Finance; (ii) to train banks to take on rural operations; and (iii) allow non-bank financial
                                                                  to
intermediaries to offer parallel services.

EFFICACY
Objective1-Solidify private ownership of land and otherproductive assets
(Rating: Modest)

3.13    This objective was not directly addressedby the project, the expectation beingthat
the policy dialog associated with the Policy Letter would be carried out inthe main during
discussions and the tranche reviews o fthe ill-fated SAC 111. DuringRISP1 supervision
missions Government did engage inlively sector policy discussions about the protectionof
property rights inrural assets, fixed and movable, as well as a continued liberalization o f
sector policies. But commitmentwas not as great as it might have been ifthe incentives had
beenproperly aligned-that      is, ifthe Bank had linked performance under the policy letter to
the SAC111tranche release (whichultimately never took place).

                                                5


3.14     Ultimately, discussions broke down over the degree o f voluntarism that would be
associated with implementation o f Moldova's landprivatization program. These differences
were swept aside when the 2"dphase RISP2 was beingprepared, and Government accepted
the Bank's recommendations. Thereafter, a separate and focused component was designed
for the RISP2, which is beingimplemented smoothly.2

3.15     By linkingthe policy and investment operations, the project helped defend, inan
unstable policy environment, the steps already taken to liberalize agriculture. Inits dialogue
with the authorities, the project team focused on agricultural trade, rationalizationo f
subsidies, regulation and land tenure. The dialog had mixedresults but, overall, helped
Moldovan farmers conduct their business without undue interference. By providing them
with the requisite information, the project gave farmers a keener sense o ftheir legal rights.

Objective 2 - Create viable rural entrepreneurial,legal and organizationalstructures
(Rating: Substantial)

3.16    Approximately 385 legally registered, self-owned and sustainable rural businesses
were created and developed duringproject implementation. (This component was mainly
fundedby DFID.)Rural entrepreneursreceived, for the first time, advice on how to develop
projects, register new businesses, secure bank financing, and marketproducts.

3.17    Business development support was offered to a range o f farm and rural non-farm
businesses. Four local NGOs were engaged to provide enterprise advisory and business
development services, to already established rural enterprises and to new start-ups.The
NGOs also linked up would-be borrowers with the institutions that were intermediating
project funds-commercial banks, the Rural InvestmentCorporation, and Moldova's
network o f Savings and Credit Cooperatives (SCAs). As part o f their loan origination
service, the NGOs identifiedand vettedprospective clients, helpedthem to prepare business
plansand loan applications, andmonitoredperformance-whether           backed by borrowing or
not.

3.18    For a small country like Moldova, the results were impressive.By the end ofthe
project, 1,136 final business plans had been prepared and 761 enterprises were operating
under NGO-approved businessplans. These enterprises enjoyed an average increase in sales
o f 12 percent, with a 23 percent increase inemployee income. Participating NGOs built up
expertise, enablingthem to provide rural business development services to more advanced
clients, for a payment.

Objective3 -Establish aprivate agricultural support services system including advisory,
input and output supply, marketing and business development support (Rating:
Substantial)

3.19    The quality and outreach o fthe advisory and extension services for farmers have been
significantly improved (Annex H). Before the project, the breakupo f collectives andthe
disappearance o f centralized services had left newly privatized landowners without key


2 Private communicationfrom the TTL.

                                                6


support services. Advice and extension were offered by dispersedprovider groups, mostly
donor-fundedNGOs, butwith limited outreach and little coordination or sharing o f
information. Thematic coverage (largely donor-driven) was patchy. Followingthe project,
the institutions exist for transferringknowledgeto farmers and runningnational campaigns of
vaccination, artificial insemination, and other farm services.

3.20    The advisory services sponsored by the project are decentralized and privately owned.
Service providers were contracted through competitive tenderingand trained to provide
knowledge and knowhow to fledgling private farmers and rural entrepreneurs. Services
covered a range o f topics, including economics, law, finance, marketing,and agronomy; and
promoted the adoption o f new technologies, to improve farmer competitiveness.

3.21    The project set up the Agency for Consultancy and Training inAgriculture (ACSA)
to provide technical services to farmers. Operating as a partly self-financed agency and
providing outreach through carefully supervisedsubcontractors, ACSA exceeded project
 expectation^.^ Surveys show that by the project's closing date, 70 percent of the rural
population hadbeen informed about the availability o f local consultancy services inthe
villages, and 300,000 beneficiaries (one-half o f Moldova's farmers) had been served. Yields
rose by between3 percent and 43 percent, dependingon crop and location. A final
beneficiary survey indicated overall satisfaction with ACSA network services (which scored
4.5 points on a scale o f 0-5); and confidence inthe professionalismo f ACSA's local
consultants.

3.22    Progress toward this objective lagged inone respect. The appraisal target o f
recovering 50 percent o f advisory service costs was not met. Additional budgetary support
was needed inthe follow-on project to assure continuation o f ACSA's services.

Objective4 -Establish a self-sustaining ruralfinance system toserve a large number of
dispersedrural clientsthroughout the country (Rating: Substantial)

3.23    Fivecommercial banks and one investment company, the Rural Finance Corporation
(RFC), were selected to intermediate project funds to rural enterprises and farmers. The
banks dealt directly with creditworthy clients while RFC channeled its funds through a large
network o f savings and credit cooperatives, some o f which were created by the project.

3-24    The project offered a general credit line to existing farm andnon-farm rural
borrowers (GCL). For first time borrowers it extended a special credit line (SCL), which
includeda SIDA-fundedmatchinggrant to top up the borrower's equity contribution. For
small farmers the project relied on the network o f savings and credit associations (SCAs).
There was great demand for these services and disbursements were considerable. The initial
project designcalled for an IDA credit o f US$15.5 million. Because IDA funds were short,
this amount was reduced at appraisal to US$10.5 million. Inresponse to rapid
implementation progress and the fast pace o f disbursement, the Board agreed to "restore" the
original US$5 million inApril 2004, inthe form o f a Supplemental Credit. This was intended



3 See ICR and Annex B o f this report.

                                                          7


to provide bridgingfinance until the second phase o fAPC became effective; and to allow
more time for lessons to be learned before second phase preparations were finalized.

3.25    The project helpedto fillthe vacuum inrural investmentcredit andworking capital.
Participating banks expanded their rural branch network. RFC added to the savings and credit
associations under its nationwide umbrella, providing training and monitoring their financial
health inthe absence o f effective supervisionby the National Federationo f Savings and
Credit Associations. NFSCA was replaced in2007 by the National Commission for Financial
Intermediaries. On April 30,2008, this new "mega-regulator" unveiled a set o fprudential
norms for all non-bank financial intermediaries, norms patterned on those applied by the
National Bank o f Moldovato the bankingsector.

3.26    The results matrix (see Annex A below) shows that 768 loanproposals from first-
time borrowers were submittedfor financing, o f which 658 were approved and 384 were
financed. Repayment performance for project funds exceeded the appraisal target of 90
percent: 96 percent o f the funds initially on-lent inthe project had beenrecovered when the
project was c10sed.~The approach taken managed to balance the objectives o f reaching the
rural poor and maintaining sound portfolio quality.

3.27    There was a highvolume o f reflows. By the end o f 2008, the reflows on-lent under
RISPl had already reached 75 percent o f total on-lending (Table l),             reflecting well on the
relevance and efficacy o f the project's credit component.




4 Figures for portfolio at risk for the entire bankingsystem were providedby the NBM's Supervision
Department,however similar figures for the five participatingbankswere not provided.

                                                     8




Table 1. Amounts disbursed including reflows and reimbursed under RlSP I and RlSP II projects as of
                                  -              -
December 31,2008 (`000 MDL or US$).

    Project     Currency       Total     Total   Allocated      Total       PFls        Grant  Nr. of sub-
                  Of Sub-    amount of amount of   grant     amount of    balance,    balance      loans
                  loans      sub-loans sub-loans             sub-loans     principal             financed
                              approved disbursed             reimbursed
                                                              by PFls,
                                                              principal
                  MDL         179,874  179,874   16,012       42,669       137,205     2, 149      1,387
RlSP I-
direct               $          50        50                     50                                  1

resources
RlSP I-           MDL           138    136,759                  5,087      131,671                  298
reflows
                  MDL         134,539  106,313                  3,674      102,638                  241
RlSP II-
direct               $         2 ,176    1,711                  107         1,604                   23

resources


                  MDL         16,910    16,910                  123        16,787                   17
RlSP II-
reflows              $        80,066    85,066                             85,066                    2




        Agriculture and food industry                        53.8%
        Services                                              17.8%
        Trade                                                 14.6%
        Industry                                              13.8%




     3.28    The agriculture sector and agro-industrial enterprises absorbed most o fthe lending
     and advisory assistance offered by the project, a trendthat has continued under RISP2 (Table
     2).

     3.29    Direct lendingby commercial banksto agriculture andthe food industryaccounted
     for more thanone-half o f loans approved; ifloans to SCAs are added, the sector share rises to
     about 75 p e r ~ e n t .Among SCA members, the project's final beneficiary survey showed
                             ~
     there were over 4,500 people with individual credit lines. Lending to agriculture increased by
     40 percent. Commercial banks are now more willing to lendto small-scale rural clients,




     5 Private communication from RFC.

                                                         9


including new borrowersS6The surge inrural demand for bank credit on commercial terms-
which began under RISPl-helped              increase the number o f banks that participated inthe
follow-on project, including all five banksfrom the RISPl Project.

3.30      Achievement o f RISPl objectives was consistent with the Bank's OP 8.30 mandate
for financial intermediary lending.The project sought to promote competition among the
signatories o f subsidiaryloan agreements. It defendedthe autonomy o f intermediaries with
respect to selection o fborrowers, approval o f subprojects, setting o f lending terms, and the
bearing o f lendingrisk.Intermediaries were free to establish on-lending interestrates
sufficiently above the cost o f capital to ensure a reasonable return. Fiduciary responsibilities
were fully spelledout and were enforced by the central bank Departmentof Banking
Regulation & Supervision. The requirementsfor inspection and periodic reporting were
observed ina timely way, inline with central bank prudential norms.

3.31      Capital adequacy and ST liquidity ratios are well inexcess o f central bank
requirements (see Annex F) and, under normal conditions, would be sufficient to sustain
credit reflow under APC. At project closing the financial position o f the Rural Finance
Corporation was reviewedand declared healthy. However, 20 percent o f Moldova's savings
and credit associations will probably be closed as a result o f the audit now underway; others
will be con~olidated.~ global financial crisis may also break some banks (see Risk
                           The
section below).

3.32      Overall, efficacy i s ratedsubstarztial.

EFFICIENCY
3.33      At project closing no attempt was made to compute an economic rate o freturnfor the
RISPl project, partly because of "the diversity o f activities undertaken inthe project". Nor
was a financial rate o f returnestimated. But the annual monitoring surveys show that
economic benefits from the project were substantial. Advisory services boostedyields and
incomes, business development services helped clients prepare bankable proposals, and the
requirementthat intermediaries bear the full lending risk encouraged them to finance only the
most viable proposals.8The project also strengthenedthe risk assessment capacity of loan
officers.

3.34      With respect to the advisory service component, yields were higher inlocalities
where local consultants were present; and, inthese localities, there was an associated
diversificationtowards higher-value horticulture and viticulture. The assistance provided by


6 Confirmed inIEG discussions with the Central Bank and project financial intermediaries.
7 Few are associatedwith RFC. Among the country's 500+ RCAs, 100had already ceased operationsbefore
the Mega-regulator'saudit was initiated, but remainedonthe national registry as there hadbeenno legal
provisions for SCAs to formally liquidate prior to enactment in2007 ofthe law which also establishedthe
functions and authority ofthe Mega-regulator. Now that legal provisions exist, these defunct operationsmake
up the largebulk ofthe RCAs to be formally closed. Among the healthy and surviving 400 RCAs, 75 percent
are affiliated with the RFC and benefit from access to the loanablefunds andtechnical training offered within
the RFC umbrella. None are expectedto be closed, and only a few might be consolidated...inpart because the
areas they are permitted to service (often only a single village) are consideredto be too small.
8 ICR, Annex 11.

                                                 10


the project to new ruralbusinesses-about       760 inall-created jobs, increased rural incomes
and generated tax receipt^.^

3.35    With respect to the credit line component, the overall recovery rate was 96 percent.
The enterprises that borrowedexperienced a number o f improvements between2002 and
2003. Sales increased on average by 12 percent. Profits rose by 42 percent. The value o f
fixed assets increased 1.4 times. Fundsto cover working capital grew by 35 percent."

3.36    Inlight ofthese considerations, efficiency is ratedsubstantial.

OUTCOME     RATING
3.37    Addingup the ratings for relevance, efficacy and efficiency (each "substantial")
outcome i s ratedsatisfactory.


4.      Monitoring & Evaluation

M&EDESIGN
4.1     Responsibility for M&Ewas vested inthe project management unit. A survey o f
intendedbeneficiaries was carried out before appraisal; with annual repeat surveys
throughout project implementation. Monitoring was also informed by routine reports from
participating financial intermediaries. The indicators developed for the baseline survey were
also usedto justify approval o f the APC second phase.

M&EIMPLEMENTATION
4.2     Surveys were carried out in2002 and 2004, usingthe same local firm (AGREX)that
had conducted the baseline survey. The sampling was statistically sound. In2003 an interim
assessmentwas satisfactorily conducted by foreign consultants (Landell-Mills).

M&EUTILIZATION
4.3     The project management unit drewonthe survey results to fine-tunethe ACSA
advisory service and NGO business development services, as well as the trainingprograms
for the savings and credit associations. With the help o f routine reports from participating
intermediaries the project management unit kept a close watch on the pace o f lendingand the
overall health o fthe rural portfolio. As a tribute to their efficacy, the project management
team was invitedto participate inthe parliamentary discussions that led, in2008, to
legislation creating a financial "mega-regulator". This tighteningup o f regulatory procedures
played a vital role inimproving oversight o f the savings and credit associations.

4.4     Overall, M&E i s ratedhigh


9 ICR, Annex 3, Chart 2.
10 ICR, Annex 3. This informationwas confirmedinIEG interviewswith the Government's mega-regulator for
NBFIs andthe RuralFinance Corporation.

                                                  11



5.       Riskto DevelopmentOutcome

5.1      There are three risks to development outcome:

      (i)     the difficulties the RISPl and follow-on project have faced inpassing along a
              fair share o fthe costs o f the advisory services to beneficiaries: rural households
              as well as financial intermediaries;

      (ii)    the impact o f the global financial crisis on the financial health o f project
              financial intermediaries and savings and credit associations, as well as rural
              borrowers; and

      (iii)   uncertainties regardingthe sustainability o f the project management unit as
              Bankfinancing winds down.

5.2      At appraisal it was estimatedthat user fees from the project's advisory services to
rural households would, by credit closing, cover at least 50 percent o f the cost o f delivering
these services. This proved to be over optimistic. The follow-on project similarly faces
problems with cost recovery. ACSA believes it can survive financially when Bank funds are
no longer available; but it will have to scale back its operations inthe poorer areas o f
Moldova, focusing on better-off clients-including      the larger commercial farms.l1

5.3      Insufficient cost recovery also threatens rural business development services. NGOs
have worked well as loan originators for the participating intermediaries, delivering clients
andproperly documentedloan applications to banks andto the RFC for appraisal and
approval. But as project financing winds down NGOs must now charge for their loan
origination services. So far, the intermediaries have refused to pay, which may ultimately put
the NGOsout ofbusiness.Most o ftheNGOswho worked with the project say they intendto
continue working inrural areas, aiming to build self-sustaining consulting businesses. But to
survive they may have to limit their services to larger andbetter established clients, steering
clear o fthe groups most inneedo f their services (the start-upenterprises with limitedmeans
to pay for advice).

5.4      The current global financial crisis is hittingMoldova hard.Pressureis coming from
two directions. First, the growth o f export earnings from trade with Russia, the CIS and
Europeanniche marketsplummetedinthe last quarter of2008. Moldova's trade deficit was
almost 55 percent o f GDP in2008. Second, remittances are dryingup-at          a faster rate in
2009 thanin2008. In2006, remittances accounted for 36 percent o f GDP, the highest per
capita level inthe world. l2 The fall inremittances will lead to depreciation o f the Moldovan
currency, leading to further deterioration o f the current account. This has been accompanied
by the involuntary repatriationo fMoldova's foreign guest workers, laidoff inRussia and in



11 Private communication from ACSA's GeneralManager.
12 World Bank2008.

                                                 12


Europe. Many of these workers came from the very same ruralhouseholds that borrowed
underthe two RISPs.These householdsare now finding it hardto service their debts.

5.5      Although the banking sector at large andthe commercial banks participating inRISPl
all demonstratedcapital adequacy ratios andprovisioning against liquidity shortfalls well in
excess of central bank norms, their position now looks less secure. The global crisis has
reducedthe liquidity ofthese intermediaries and may lead to banking failures and forced
mergers.

5.6      The project managementunit can draw on funds from severalnon-Bank sources and
i s likely to keep operating through 2010. After that its survival i s less guaranteed. The unit
has becomethe main link betweengovernment and the donor community for rural operations
and investment programs. It is also the government's most important rural service agency,
with akey role to play inpromoting growth inthe Moldovancountryside. The unithas
already beenabsorbedby the government's structure of development administration. Butthe
managementunit may not survive ifit is brought fully on-budget and requiredto operate
using civil service pay scales.

5.7      Underthese circumstances, the risk to development outcomeis rated significant.


6.       BankPerformance

QUALITY     AT ENTRY
6.1      Quality at entry was not assessedby QAG but IEGendorses the satisfactory rating
assigned by the ICR. This is based on: (i)  the consistency ofproject objectives with the
priorities for agricultural development andrural poverty reduction that are highlighted inthe
World Bank Agriculture Strategy andthe Country Assistance Strategy; and (ii) carefulthe
assessment of institutional capacity that i s factored into project design.

PROJECT     SUPERVISION
6.2      The Bank task team that was involvedinpreparation remained, for the most part,
engagedduring implementation. At midway the team leader changedbutto no adverse
effect. The Rural Finance Component was fully disbursed 18 months before the original
closing date. Supervision was carried out at least every six months and more frequently when
the needarose (see Annex D). Bank supervision performance i s ratedsatisfactory.

OVERALL      RATING

6.3      Overall, the performance of the Bank i s ratedsatisfactory.

                                               13


7.      Borrower Performance

GOVERNMENTPERFORMANCE
7.1     The government was fully engaged duringthe preparation and implementation o f the
project and performance i s rated satisfactory. Throughout this period staff from the
Ministries o f Finance and Agriculture, and the National Bank o f Moldova, worked closely
withthe Bankteam.

7.2     Government delegated responsibility for the day-to-day runningo f the Project to the
project management unit (CAPMU); but kept a close eye on the project from the vantage
point o f its seat on the Project Steering Committee. The PSC providedguidance to CAPMU
on matters o f strategy and substance, following up effectively on the steps that were agreed.
All ofthe key ministrieswere represented on the PSC. Inaddition, the government
contributed to successful implementation o f the project by honoring its co-financing
commitments; and by respecting the autonomy o f financial intermediaries inmatters o f in
loan appraisal and approval.

IMPLEMENTING       AGENCYPERFORMANCE
7.3     The performance o f the project management unit (CAPMU) i s ratedsatisfactory.
The unit has beenstaffed with well-qualified and experienced professionals who know the
sector well; and are versed inthe intricacies o f Bank policies and procedures. The staff dealt
well with a range o f complex tasks, including financial management, accounts and audits,
procurement, M&E and safeguards. The unit served as an effective interlocutor for
stakeholders, beneficiaries and donors on all aspects o fproject preparation and
implementation. Duringproject implementation CAPMU became the focus o f a series o f
thoughtful and innovative approaches to rural development, including micro-finance,
environmentally-friendly agriculture, and advisory services.

7.4     The Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) was the most active o f the participating
financial intermediaries and played a key role insetting up the microfinance system. RFC, a
non-bank, credit-only financial institution, was the biggestlender under the Special Credit
LineofRISP. Whenthe credit closed, the total number of subloans from RFCto the savings
and credit associations-including     loans made from reflows-stood    at 500, representing
about US$6.7 million. While initially the RFC served as an apex institutionfor the many
savings and credit associations, it eventually added a niche role as a maker of direct,
individual loans.

7.5     Taken together, the performance o f the project financial intermediaries-not    just RFC
but also ACSA, the NGOs and others-warrants        a satisfactory rating. All these institutions
were well staffed, trained, and equippedto implement the project. Participants were highly
committedto project objectives and performed the tasks they were responsible for ina timely
and efficient manner.Duringproject preparation each o fthese institutions made a number of
designcontributions that helpedto contribute to the overall effectiveness o fproject
implementation.

                                           14


OVERALLRATING
7.6 The borrower's overall performance i s ratedsatisfactory.


8.  Lessons Learned

    Five lessons may be drawn:

    (1) Conditionsattachedto projects,particularlythose bearingon sector
    developmentpolicy,should be proportionateto projectscale; otherwise,
    they should be consignedto other operations.Government sent a policy letter
    to the Bank and signeda memorandum o funderstanding, inthe hope that
    broader policy reforms would be supported by a 3rdStructural Adjustment
    Credit. But SAC111was dropped from the Moldova lending program after an
    unsuccessfwl 2ndTranche Review, burdeningRISP1with the added
    responsibility o f addressing the broader reform agenda.

    (2) Credit agreements and projectbudgetsshould be sufficientlyflexibleto
    allow for changes inproject financialintermediariesduring
    implementation. RISP1allowed any pre-qualified financial intermediary to
    apply to borrowproject funds under subsidiaryloan agreements (SLAs) with the
    Borrower. Eligibility criteria were established inthe preparationphase and a
    number of PFIswere evaluated. However, the demand for project resources was
    greater than the available funds so that resources had to be rationedbetweenthe
    competing intermediaries. The rules neededto allow new intermediaries to take
    part inthe competition; and to include the option o f assigning funds by auction.

    (3) Grant elements in credit linesmay not havethe intendedeffect. A grant
    element was included inthe credit line for enterprise start-ups inorder to
    accommodate businesses with weaker collateral. But, inpractice, the same
    collateral requirements were applied, whether or not a grant was attached to the
    loan.

    (4) Credit linesinvolvingmultiplesubloans require a considerable
    delegationof fiduciary responsibility.InRISP1, delegation worked because:
    (i) thestart,banksandborrowersreceivedclearadviceabouttheavailable
       from
    credit lines; (ii)the project management unit built up the expertise to conduct a
    major part of the screening process, leaving the Bank to prior-review larger
    loans and post-review smaller ones; and (iii) thanks to the technical assistance
    received from partners, banks were able to improve their subloan applications
    so that, when needed, prior review, could be conducted expeditiously.

    (5) Providing consulting services to help small entrepreneurs prepare and
    implementbusinessplansis as criticalfor the success ofruralfinanceprogramsas
    providinglong-termcredit. Combining financing with technical assistancehelpedto
    make RISPl a success. Providing long-term funding to rural businesses was vital. But

                               15


withouttheBusinessDevelopmentServicescomponent,itis unlikelythatthecreditline
would havedisbursed.

                                                16


9. References

Economist Intelligence Unit; Moldova Country Profile - 2008 (annual), London: 2008
Economist Intelligence Unit; Moldova Country Reports - 2008-2009 ((monthly), London

Government of Moldova: Strategy for Agriculture and Agro-processing Development (Chisinau -
1999)

International Monetary Fund (2009): International Financial Statistics (Washington, DC - IMF
monthly)

World Bank (1996). Moldova: Agriculture Policy Update. EC4NR Agriculture Policy Note
No. 5. Europe and Central Asia Region. World Bank, Washington, D.C.

World Bank (1998): OP 8.30 -Financial Intermediary Lending

World Bank (2001): Agricultural Strategy for Moldova - Accelerating Recovery and Growth
(ECSSD: June 29,2001 [(Revised June 20021)

World Bank -ARD (2003): Rural Financial Services -Implementingthe Bank's Strategy to Reach
the RuralPoor, Report No. 26030

World Bank (2004): Republic of Moldova-Trade Diagnostics Study (Report No. 30998-MD)

World Bank (2005): Rural Finance Innovations -Topics & Case Studies, Report No. 32726-GLB

World Bank -ECSSD (2006): Moldova Agricultural Policy Notes-Public Expenditures for
Agricultural Development (Report No. 42142 datedJune 2006)

World Bank (2008); Migration and RemittancesFactbook

World Bank -ECSSD (2005): The Agrarian Economies of Central and Eastern Europe and the
Commonwealth of Independent States -An Update on Status and Progress in 2005 (ESSD Working
Paper No. 40, June 30,2005 -preparedby Csaba Csaki and Holger Kray)

CountryAssistanceStrategies and Related:
    0    1999- Country Assistance Strategy for Moldova (Report No. 18896-MD)
    0   2001 -"Moldova PSD StrategyNote June 12,2001)

Rural FinanceProjectDocumentation
        PAD (Report No. P7540-MD)
    0   ICRReport (Report No. ICR0000514, dtd May 22,2008)
        IEG: ICR Review posted May 13,2008

SAC I11Documentation
    0   PR(Report No. Report P-7113-RO)
    0   ICR Report (Report No. 28320
    0   IEG: ICR Review posted June 16,2004

                                                         17    Annex A


AnnexA. Basic Data Sheet

MOLDOVA: RuralInvestmentand ServicesProject (Credit No. 3668)

'roject Cost & Financing
  Project Cost by Conipoxieiit (mUS%imllioii equisaleiit)




    IDA                                      15.50

    DflD                                     1.36


    SIDA                                     0.88


    EU-TACIS                                 0.70


    Government of Moldova                    2.98

Annex A                                         18


Project Dates
                                                    Original                  Actual
Concept Review                                     04/11/2000                04/11/2000
Begin Appraisal                                    04/26/2002                04/26/2002
Board approval                                     06/20/2002                06/20/2002
Signing                                            06/26/2002                06/26/2002
Effectiveness                                      08/30/2002                08/30/2002
Mid-term Review                                    09/15/2003                09/15/2003
Closing date                                       12/31/2005                12/31/2005


Mission Data

BankLendingand ImplementationSupport/SupervisionProcesses


                               No. of Personsand Specialty          PerformanceRating
   Stage of ProjectCycle      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1FMS, etc.)
                                                               Implementation  Development
         MontWYear           Count             Specialty         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
                  09/04/1998   2       TTL (1) ;OTHER(1)
                                       TTL (1) ;AG ECON. (1);
                                       OPER. ANALYST (1);
                  10/09/1999   4       OTHER (1)
                                       TTL (1); RFADV. (1);
                                       AG ECON. (1); OPER.
                                       ANALYST (1);
                  10/20/1999I  6     IICONSULTANTS(2)
                                       TTL (1); CONS. (1);
                  04/27/2000   3       OPER.ANALYST (1)
                                       TTL (1); AG ECON.(2);
                                       SECT. SPEC. (5); FMS
                                       (1); SOCIOLOGIST(1);
                                       OPER. OFFICER(1);
                     0512000  12       TEAMASST. (1)
                                       TTL (1);
                  09/23/2000   3       CONSULTANTS (2)
                                       TTL (1); AG ECON. (1);
                                       FIN. SPEC. (1); CONS.
                  12/01/2001   5       (2)
                                       TTL (1); AG ECON.(2);
                                       FIN. SPEC. (2); CONS.
                                                  . .
                  03/02/2001   7       (2)
                                       TTL (1); AG ECON. (1);
                  06/08/2001   9       FMS (1); CONS. (6)
                                       TTL (1); CONS. (2);
                  09/26/2001   4       OPER. ANALYST (1)
                  12/14/2001   3       TTL (1); AG ECON.(2)

                                                          19                                Annex A


 Appraisal/Negotiation
                                                TTL (1); LEGAL (1);
                                                PROCUREMENT(1);
                                                DISBURSMENT (1);
                                                OPERATIONS
                                                OFFICER(1); OPER.
                                                ANALYST (1); OPER.
                                                ASST. (1); OTHER (1)
                                                TTL
FSu ervision
                                                TEAM LEADER(1);
                                                AG. ECON.(1);
F                     12/20/2002                BANKING CONS. (1)                 S              S
                                                NEW TTL (1); CONS.
                      0512412003                (1)                               S              S
                                                TTL (1); SR. ECON. (1);
                                                FIN. SPEC. (2); OPER.
                                                OFFICER(1); CONS.
                                       8        (3)s                              S              S
                                                TTL (1); RURAL FIN.
                                                SPEC. (1); CREDIT
                                                UNION SPEC. (1);
                                                RURAL POLICY SPEC.
                                       4        (1)                               S              S

                                                TTL (1) ;FIN. SPEC. (1);
                                                RURAL ADV. SERVICE
 ICR                                             (1); OPERATIONS(1);
~

                     05I21l2004        J
                                       c             SCA CONS. (1)                S              S
 Note: IdentificationPreparationmissions also took placeNovember 1998 [TTL; OPER.ANALYSTS (2) AND



 Staff InDuts(staff weeks)
  Stage of Project Cycle                                     ActuallLatest Estimate
                                             No. Staff Weeks               USD Thousands (including travel
                                                                                 and consultant costs)
 Identification/Preparation                                                             1,164
 AppraisaI/Negotiation
 Supervision                                                                            406
 ICR
 Total                                                                                 1,570
 Note: US$406,000 includes the ICRpreparation


                                                                21                                                        Annex B


   Annex B. Logframe Matrix (Key Performance Indicators)

Outcome I Impact Indicators:
                Indicator/Matrix
IncreasedprodLCtion and productiviryin kej
crop and livestock subsecton mthe regions
Mere projectactivrtresare conducted




Improvedmarket accessand nwrkeang          igexportgrowthat GDPgrowthrate           Ag expo& constituted68% of allexportsin
practicesfor agro-foodproducers,measured ?gulvalent                                 2003, and 66 6% in 2002
by increasedvolme of exportsfrom the
projectarea

Increasednon-brniemployment inrural        3wersified ruraleconomy                  55% (448) of all businessesthat started merr
areas measured by the number of                                                     acbvities were non-agnwltural.
non-agnculturaibusinesses

Increasedrural incomein projectareas as    U least 5% growth HI  realincome          Rased onthe surveys, the averageincome
comparedto the baselate survey                                                       increaseinMebusinessesin pmjectareasIS



Output Indicators:
                IndicatorMatrix                                              1
                                                      Projectedin last PSR         I            ActuaKatmt Estimate
H@hawarenessamongfanners regarding          dvisory sewices fully functioning       70%of Moldova's ruralpopulabonare
Me availalirlityof rural adwsotysewices                                             infwrred abut the availaIiWyof local
                                                                                    consultantsewices invillages
At least 2Q0,OM) farmers and rural          00,000 benefiaaries                     300,000 beneficianes(halfof all farmers)
entrepreneurswll havebenefitedfrwn the                                              have beenreachedthroughvariws extensor
advisory Services                                                                   semces

An increaseinthe numberof clientsper        5 SPsand growing                        35 SPswdh 447 localconsultants
advisorycenter

Vanety of dflerent types of adviceservtces  iivers&edsublects coveredkn contracts   The SPs provideadvice mbaw subjects,
providedbysewice providers                                                          suchastechnolagies,begal, marketrngand
                                                                                    fmances, amwrth a wtde rangeof
                                                                                    specializedservices underspecial contracts

ViabMy of Sewice centersas measuredby       0% of cost recovery                     50%cost recoverynotyet achieved, further
cost recoveryof at least 50%                                                        support requiredto ensurefull sustainability

Saabsfactionof clientswith the advtsorj      final beneficiarysurveyas a pcutof ICR The averagerabng ofthe advrxrrjcenter
service center network operatian                                                    network serviceswas 4 5pants (max 5 01,
                                                                                    The professtonalismof the local consultants
                                                                                    was ratedat 4 48 Wnts (max 5 0).

Numberof rural busrnessandfarmer            DO & 600                                761 busmesses implemenbngtheir business
organizationscreated    - 9W indwdualand                                            plans,including510 (67%)indiwdualand
600 group businesses                                                                252 group busmesses

Increasedproductivty and income for ownen lainsheanledrural lending                 38.1first-time borrowing enterpriseshave
/ menlbenof newlycreatedbusinesses,                                                 kenfinanced,
improvedaccessto credltfrom c0mmerual                                               Averageincreasein salesof 12%.
banks.                                                                              Average increaseinemployeeincomeof
                                                                                    23%
                                                                                    lmpnwedyieldsf&ween 3%and43%.

   Annex B                                                 22


Number and quabiy of businessplans       Over 1000businessplansprepared    1,136final business plans prepared, ofthose
submittedto lianksfor financing                                            763subrniwd to PFlsfoc financing, and 658
                                                                           &ready financed

Number of bneficianes (ownershembers) Minimum2,000 lieneficiaries          4,504 henefiaariesunderthe lndividualcredit
W o have receivedloansunderme GCUSCL
- atleast2,000.                                                            knee, and 33,700 S W members


lncreasedshare of bansto agricultureand  Averageruralpom0llog m n by 50%   Intwo years, lendingto agncultureinthe PFI
ruralsectors in PFls loanporfollosby at                                    portfolmshas increasedby40%
least 5096
Repaynlentperformance at least 90%
                         -               At least 90%
recovev rate on PFIloanportfolio

'Endofproject

   Source: ICRAnnex 1

                                                        23                                                   Annex C


Annex C.APC ProgramTriggers for RISP2


                         Trigger                                                    Status at ICR
Coiitmuous adherence to the priority legal, regulatory       U h l e generally the policy euwonment remains
and apcultural policy refomis as articulated W the           somewhat unstable, the project has helped with policies
Lettex o f Sector Development Policy and the                  such as the landleasmg law or by rolling back poorly
lfeniorruiduinofUnderstaiidmg                                designed reforms, contmuing monitoring is reqwed to
                                                             ensure that the Government does not increase its
                                                             admmstrative mteference m the sector through
                                                             measures which are not consisteut withthe LSDP or the
                                                             MOU.
Creation o f fully developed legal statutes ofpnvate farms Over 80.000 rural entrepnses repstered since beglnning
andm a l entrepreneiws as measured by iiicreasmg              o f the project.
numbers o f regtstered private farms and nual businesses
Efficient operation o f Sewice Providers for adtrsory         Thirtv-five Service Promden (SPs) mth447 local
senices (minimum35 SPs uioperatioil and a ininimurn consultants operatmg inrural areas, providing services
100 general contracts and 300 special contracts               to about 300,000 farmers (out o f an estimated
inipleinetitect) .                                            populabon o f 600,000 farmers) and nual mtrepreneun.
                                                              with(1) 95 generalcontracts as ofNovember 2004 and
                                                              an additional =expected     by the end o fFebniary 2005
                                                              and {u)258special contracts implementedby December
                                                              3 1,2004 and xiother 100expected by December 31,
                                                              2005 Tneeer well undenilav to be met bv closingdate.
Effective rural business development sen'ices (nlmunum             D A s m opefatioil withfive mobile teams each with
900 legal rural busines5es created and regisrered and        a total o f 1,605 service provision agreements on
minm~unDevelopment Agencies (DA) operating with business development signed, 1,136 busmessplatis
            3
5 mobile teams each)                                         elaborated; 761 busmesses are implementing their
                                                             business plans, mcluding 510 (67.02%) individual and
                                                              25 1group businesses (32.98%). Trigger well undenvay
                                                             to be mct bv closme date
Successfkl uitegration o f commercial banks into rural        -PFIs,
                                                              Six        uiclwling five coniniercial banks and 1
financing a5 demonstrated by at least tlww fully              non-bank financial mstitutioa, actively participating m
fiuictioiruig wd active participattlig financial institutions the project with over 1,049 loans made (rncludmg 500
(PFIs).                                                       loans to Savings and Cre&t Associations and 381 loans
                                                              to first-time borrowers)
Sound portfolio as measured by a mmimrrrn W O                Portfolio recovery rate rnthe PFIs: 96%
i*eccovayrate under the nual fmance component.
Adequate regulatory and supervisq capacity o f the Statc Portfolio at &SIC      30 days in SCAs - 1.2% Licensed

Supervisory Body (SSB) as demonstrated by liceused           SC& typically mcompliance with the prudential
SUA5 bemg infull compliance with the prudentla1              regulations with default rates of less than 1.75?0.
regulations with mnimumdefault rates (less tilai7 506).      However, SSB supmnsory capacity requuues further
                                                             strengtherung.
Disbursement o f ~t kasr 75'0 o f the first-phase credit     6690 o f the credit lme allocation, ududmg the
line operation.                                              supplemental credit, disbursed: 100?0o f the origlnal
                                                             allocation drsbursed.
Disbursement o f at least at IQUSF7j?,o f the non-credrt      68O6 o f the non-credit Ime allocation disbursed
linecoinyonents or evidence that anequivaknt quantity
and quality o f techlucal assistmce has been yromded
and has resulted inenhanced local instinitioiial
cauacitv


                                25          Annex D


Annex D.Loans DisbursedFrom RISPCredit Lines

   SpccralCndit Line




   Oeneral Credit Line




   GrandTotal




Note as o fDecember 31, 2004

Source: ICRAnnex 10


w


                                                                  29                                                           Annex F


Annex EResults of the RuralBusinessDevelopment

                          Component
                                Cumulative figures of RISP (Pilot) and SRISP as for                                   31/12/04
                                                    (exchange rate for report (1 USD) is 14.00 MDL)

     SI.                                 Indicator                            Total to         Total to
                                                                              30,11J04     .*CA          CCA                         Total

    1.Numberofwtlagesvrhercinfumimoncampaignheld                              i4cB           E6             416        364     272       1408
    2 Nu+     d pople acredingthe public meeonqs                              17753         3203           6 %       3374     4305      L7919

    3. Numberof irpplmtionsfor DAsuppoct                                      3274           656           1183        613     916       3368
    4.   Lwthore r r ] dby DAuddrnt                                           1542           2212           850        180     238       1560
    5      SUb-td(34)                                                         1732           2%             333        433     678       l8Ds
    6   of which applcaoonsinprqrrjs (+7)                                     190                1           40         82       80       203

    7. SemceagrepmcntssiqHpned                                                1342           363            293        351     J98       1605
    8.   4 1 ~mminatcdby D.kdknt
                       m                                                      462             96             57         n      216        $66
    9    iwnamngS.ivice Agrormcna MV      e (7-8)                             1080           267            236        254       382       1139
    obtho iciiue Saiviee i g ~ m (in 9 above):
                                      m
    10. RBsstarted impkmentingtheir business/imestment plans                  723            212            198        168       183        761
    ii rrrprogtwpia)                                                          357             55             38         86       199        378
    Or those stad imp%mentngtheir buslmes plans (in 10 above):
    12 IdiuPdualy owned busmessas                                             479     ( 663   '$1 115       145        144       106        510
    13. Orwp owned busirwses                                                  244     ( 33.-  ''4 97         53         24        77        251
    14. FSs generahngrevenue (of thase in I O have)                           560               159         161        135       131        586
    15.RBswith fiwlbusiws planswith DA assistance                             1090              332         254        228       326        1136
    16. RBr ragktffed as legal entitywith DA assishnca                        514               124         104         ?6       225        529
    17. Credit appliitionr bo FmndalInstitutions(!=Is)                        938               294         217        199       274        983
    18. lessmeUr q a d or d d r m m                                           212                88         27          22       78         215
    19 Remain:rgme& applicabonsY t n e (17-18)                                                  726         206        190       176        196
    Orthe MM credltapptcationsi

    20. bans drsbud to R8s                                                    613               171         178        161       148        658
    21 Loans appinvrd bur nm disbursed                                        25                  4           4          G         6         22
    22 Loh?awliatonr sb%lk n g lsr~rredky FIr (19-M-21)                       88                 31           8          7       42         88
    cdthe lwnr p d e d {in 20 above):
    23 LD)N pswidedhum REP Funds                                              452               116         139        140       92         487
    24 LDans p d e d bornorher SOURIS                                         161                55         39         2 1       56         171
    25. RBI receivingmatchinggrant                                            L97                6 0        63          33       4 1        197
    2 6 RBswithout aedt (of thosein 10ilbove)                                 125                44         23          16       40         123
    Of those smted to mplmenrd w bffines plar. (in 10 a&)       the aNv.ues area
    27. Agncuknl                                                              299                           84          54       69         313
    28. Noq.qncultunl                                                         424                           114        114       114        4-48

    29,Jobscreated (at start-yt)                                              3WO                          748         505       834      3182
    1% Avwagepbs crearedperRB (arnur.vp.l                                     4                               4         3         5           4

    30. Total RBs costsof all RB (in 10a h )                                  19 1817509 496 113     $2 166 534 $1428 673 $2 468 778 $9 564 099

    3Qa AverageRB wst {in 10abvr)                                             $12700       (16491       $10942     $8504     $13491    $12 563
    31. TotalR L &r (dthoseRBr recejvmgaed8)                                  57 804 007$2 861 861   $2 05U 808 $1 546 058 $1968854 SD L7 582
        dwhich
    32, of whrh: - c 4 1 d                                                    $5 229 167 $1 949 868 $1296 644    $811 526 $1472 802 55 530 845
    33.                                                                       5442 062      $168 388   5136825     e0360     $96488   $442062
    34,            --marchinggrantof hefcanes
                     cuntributim                                              $2 132779     $743 605   S617 333  $494 173   $399 SE4$2 234 675
    35           m'ageloan(incl m d r r r a n d ~ ~ ~ r l ~ r R 6 ~ 1 n Z O a b5925Z
                                                                               v e )        $12387      #a053      #529l     510603     $907'




     Five R68 have received subsidies from SOI-OSFoundation in the total amount $S 668.

   Source: ICR Annex 9


                                         31                             Annex G


Annex G.Activities of theACSA Network

                              RlSPADVISORY SERVtCES COMPONENT
      NUFJBER OF SERVICES AND THE FORM OF ThEIR PROVISION. ACSA NETWORK
               Vethsl ccyisti!titiirlw

Annex G                     32




     Source: ICR Annex 8

                     33        Annex H


Annex H.Borrower's Comments




