DoNument of
The World Bank
FOR oMcAuL USE ONLY
R<X/ o;XNi  7X
Report No. P-4101-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRE SIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$262 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
May 21, 1985
TIs do_met bhs a resotcxtd disbxdom and may be used by recipients oy in tbe perfonmance of
their official dutes ts l atein nay an oherwise be dbislnd witlout World Bfnk uihoerziadon.



CURRENCY EQUrVALENTS
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$ 1.00 = DA 5.00
DA 1.00 = US$0.20
DA 1,000,000 = US$ 200,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DGE        Direction Generale de 1'Exploitation
DGIH       Direction Generale des Infrastructures Hydrauliques
EPEAL      Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau d'Alger
EPEZO      Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau de Constantine
EPEOR      Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau d'Oran
MII3       Million cubic meters
MLHEF      Minist6re de 1'Hydraulique, de 1'Environnement et des Forets
SEDAL      Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger
SNC        Soci6te Nationale de Comptabilite
SONADE     Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable et
Industrielle
Wilaya     Local government area (comparable to a province)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AN]D POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUiMUARY
Borrower:            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiaries:       Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau d'Oran (EPEOR).
Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau de Constantine (EPECO).
Government.
Amount:              US$262 million equivalent.
Terms:               Fifteen years including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:     EPEOR and EPECO will respectively reimburse the
Government US$173 million and US$68 million equivalent
of the Bank loan, over a period of 25 years including
five years of grace, at an interest rate of 10 percent.
Project Description: The project will help expand water production and
distribution in the metropolitan areas of Oran and
Constantine to the levels required to meet the
unsatisfied demand (currently representing 35 percent
of production in Oran and 44 percent in Constantine)
and future demand in the areas. In Oran the project
provides for the construction of a new surface water
production system, a demineralization plant and the
rehabilitation of the existing production facilities.
In Constantine it provides for the construction of new
water production works and expansion of the
distribution network, collection and treatment of
wastewater for reuse in irrigation. Technical
assistance will be provided under the project to the
recently established regional water companies to help
them streamline their organization, operational
procedures and financial systems. The project will
benefit about 2.1 million inhabitants of Oran and
Constantine, of whom about two-thirds are residents of
low-income districts. It will also supply water for
industrial and commercial development. The project
faces no technical risks, though its successful
realization will depend upon timely implementation of
recommended financial policies for EPEOR and EPECO.
Those risks, however, are reduced by the Government
commitment, as expressed in the recently issued Water
Code, that water utilities be managed as commercial and
- financially self-supporting enterprises.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of ther officid duuics Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization. 



- ii -
Estimated
Cost:                                            Local *  Foreign    Total
Item                             US$ Million
New Water Production
Facilities for Oran               114.4       147.2    261.6
Rehabilitation of Existing
Systems in Oran                     7.6         7.2     14.8
Water Production Facilities
for Constantine                    24.5        26.4     50.9
Collection and Treatment of
Wastewater in Constantine          36.0        22.0     58.0
Irrigation Facilities                 1.3         2.0      3.3
Supply of Operational
Equipment and Meters               3.0        14.7     17.7
Technical Assistance and
Staff Training                      2.5         3.8      6.3
Project Preparation                   1.7         5.8       7.5
Construction Supervision              9.0         8.7     17.7
Total Base Cost            200.0      237.8    437.8
Contigencies
Physical                           26.0        31.8     57.8
Price                              32.9        43.2     76.1
Total Project Cost         258.9       12.8    571.
Financing
Plan:                                           Local *   Foreign    Total
-     US$ Million
Government Equity                   258.9        50.8    309.7
Bank Loan                              -        262.0    262.0
Total                                           571.7&Z
Estimated
Disbursements:                                      US$ Million
Bank FY        1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Annual          5.0   35.7   53-0  59.9   43.8   33.7   30.9
Cumulative      5.0   40.7   93.7  153.6  197.4  231.1  262.0
Economic Rate
of Return:   9 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 5452a-AL of May 10, 1985.
*Includes US$171.5 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TH  PRESIDENT OF THE BRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE D!RECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN
AMOUNT EQUIALENT TO US$262.0 MILION TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US$262 million, to b.elp finance a National Water Supply and Sewerage project
to the Regions of Constantine and Oran. The respective Water Utilities for
Constantine and Oran will reimburse the Govern ent US$241.0 million equivalent
of the Bank loan, plus interest and other charges incurred by the Government
during construction, over a period of 25 years including five years of grace,
at an interest rate of 10 percent. The remaining US$21.0 million of the loan
will be directly utilizied by the Government for the supply of operational
equipment, technical assistance and staff training to regional water supply
and sewerage companies. The loan would have a term of 15 years including four
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Algeria in January 1981 to review the
Five Year Development Plan and a Report (3668-AL) entitled "Algeria - The Five
Year Development Plan and the Medium-Term Prospects 1980-84" was distributed
to the Executive Directors in July 1982. Updates were made following brief
staff visits in 1982 and 1983. An updating mission visited Algeria in 1984
and its findings are reflected below.
Long-term Economic Objectives
3.       In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the future decades.
They were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, they are (i) to expand and organize the production
base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained growth with full
employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which implies that the
country would rely first on its own resources for development, although
international economic relations would be expanded and diversified; and
(iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among regions. The
National Charter and the new Constitution, approved in November 1976, added
the objective of economic democracy, meaning that economic decentralization
would be increased and that effective control over investment plans and
management of economic units would be vested in workers' and peoples'
assemblies. They also substantially strengthened the national commitment to
regional development.



-.2-
4.       Following the death of President Boumediene, a smooth transfer of
power and wider participation of political institutions characterized the
transition leading to the election-of President Chadli Bendjedid and the
appointment of a new Government in March 1979. President Bendjedid was
reelected in January 1984 following the Fifth Party Congress of the FLN.
The President and the new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the
basic principles of Algeria's long-term development objectives and to the
implementation of the National Charter. Emphasis has been placed on
satisfying the basic material and social needs of the population, in
particular housing, education and training.
Medium-term Development Stratemies
5.       The main elements of Algerian development strategy continue to be
the establishment of a diversified and integrated industrial base, expansion
of agricultural output towards self sufficiency, and increased efficiency in
production and distribution. After the 1974-77 Plan Period, the Government
decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional years devoted to the
completion of on-going projects and programs, and to the preparation of a
new Plan, covering the period 1980-84.
6.       The Five Year Plan was approved by the National Popular Assembly in
November 1980 following a long review process within the country's various
political and social institutions.  Investment was to be reoriented toward
the social sectors, especially housing. Development of education and
training, economic infrastructure and regional development were to be
stepped up. Agriculture and water development received special attention. On
the other hand, investment in the industrial sectors was to be slowed down.
The Plan provided for completion of ongoing industrial projects and gave
priority to new projects that establish linkages between existing industries
and that eliminate the constraints on optimum utilization of production
capacities. Emphasis was placed on light industries and small and
medium-scale enterprises, in order to expand and strengthen the country's
industrial base.
7.       The priority given to hydrocarbon development as a means of raising
financial resources is maintained in the 1980-84 Plan. However, a policy
for moderating the long-term rate of exploitation of oil and gas resources
was introduced in the Plan. This conservation policy, which aims at
maintaining the long run growth in export volumes, and thus of import
capacity, was designed to allow Algeria to avoid long run balance of
payments difficulties that would have reappeared after 1990 if the original
program providing for rapid exploitation of hydrocarbon resources had been
maintained.
8.       Economic decentralization was to be pursued, and important
structural reforms were to be introduced, relating in particular to the
organization and management of agriculture, industry and the financial
system. Special emphasis was put on measures aimed at improving the
efficiency of the economic system and of financial management in general.



-3-
After a decade of high levels of investment and austerity in consumption, a
path was to be followed combining increased consumption and improved quality
of life with rationalized investment and more effective utilization of
capital and technology.
implenentation of Past and Current Plans
9.       The evolution of the Algerian economy during the 1970-73 and
1974-77 Plan periods was characterized by strong investment growth, a high
savings rate, substantial growth in industry and construction and high
employment creation.  The GDP grew at an annual rate of 9 and 7 percent
respectively during the two Plan periods. However, the implementation of
the two Plans, which emphasized capital intensive investment in industry,
generated imbalances between the very high level of investment (an average
of 37 and 50 percent of GDP for the two Plan periods) and Algeria's growing
but limited financial and human resources. This led to pressures on external
and domestic financial resources (the resource gap increased from 7 to 12
percent of GDP between 1970 and 1977), and to widening disparities between
industrial and non- industrial sectors. Moreover, the marginal efficiency
of capital has fallen from one plan to the next, particularly iu the
non-hydrocarbon industry where investment efforts were the most
substantial. External capital requirements increased, and large borrowings
abroad caused a steep rise in debt and debt service obligations. The overall
Government budget, including investment expenditures and capital transfers
to public enterprises, showed large deficits (7 percent of GDP at the end of
1977), and credit to the economy increased rapidly.
10.      While developments in 1978 and in 1979 were in many ways similar to
those of 1974-77, they also anticipated the strategy and objectives of the
1980-84 Plan. Real growth of GDP was propelled by an acceleration of growth
ia non-hydrocarbon sectors. Relative improvements in operating levels of
existing plants and start-up of new plants allowed growth of industrial
output to accelerate. Total planned investment increased rapidly in 1978,
in particular for gas development and the country's total fixed capital
formation exceeded 48 percent of GDP. Total imports also increased
substantially while the growth in the current value of exports was limited,
as Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of 1978. Thus, the
current account deficit widened in 1978 to $3.5 billion (14 percent of GDP).
involving high new loan commitments and disbursements ($4.7 billion). In
1979, the average export price of Algerian crude oil rose 54 percent above
the average price for 1978. This, combined with rising gas exports, brought
large additional financial resoarces. For the first time, investment in
industry fell in real terms, while budget appropriations were increased for
investment in housing, agriculture and irrigation, distribution, and
economic infrastructure.   With the increased revenue from the hydrocarbon
sector, restraint on industrial investment, and further limitations on
imports, the current account deficit was reduced to $1.6 billion (5 percent
of GDP). Algeria continued, nonetheless, to borrow heavily from commercial
sources in 1979 to help finance its investment program for hydrocarbon
development, especially gas. The debt service ratio increased to 26.3
percent in 1979.



-4-
11.      During 1980, rapid growth was maintained in the non-hydrocarbon
sectors, especially in industry. The external finance situation further
improved thanks mainly to a further 68 percent increase in the average price
of crude oil. Although there were interruptions in gas deliveries during
the year, total hydrocarbon export revenue rose to US$13.4 billion from
US$9.5 billion in 1979. The current account was almost in equilibrium and
the external debt service was stable at 25.7 percent of exports.
12.      With about 98 percent of its merchandise exports composed of
hydrocarbons, the Algerian economy is heavily influenced by the developments
in the oil and gas markets. In 1981 and 1982, its continued diversification
of exports towards refined products, condensate and natural gas, and the
successful renegotiation of gas contracts with several European countries
eased the effects of the oil glut on its external revenue position. In
addition, the softening of oil prices and lower oil exports were accompanied
by import cutbacks and limitations on the growth of domestic expenditure,
particularly of investment; in 1980-1982 fixed investment increased at about
5.1 percent in real terms, a lower rate than the expected average of 7.3 in
the 1980-84 Plan. Thus, external debt was actually reduced by $2.4 billion
between 1980 and 1982, although debt service rose to 28.6 percent of exports
as these latter dropped in value. The GDP growth performance, excluding
hydrocarbons, remained at a relatively high 6.6 percent annual average in
the period 1980-82, as capacity utilization improved. Overall, GDP growth
is estimated at an average of 4.5 percent p.a. in 1980-82.
13.      During the years 1983 and 1984, Algeria pursued a policy of export
diversification for hydrocarbon products. While crude petroleum export
volumes stagnated between 1982 and 1984, quantities of condensate exported
grew at an average yearly rate of 18.5 per cent. Starting in 1983, exports
of natural gas to Italy complemented exports of liquified gas which had lost
some momentum while price issues were discussed during contract
renegotiations. Consequently, exports receipts from hydrocarbon were
maintained at an average of $12.3 billion during the years 1983-84. Imports
were kept under tight control, so that the current balance was close to
equilibrium. Amortization payments increased fom $2.9 billion in 1982 to
$3.9 billion in 1984, as a result of large loans contracted at the end of
the 70's, while disbursements grew fom $2.2 billion to $3.4 billion.
Reserves declined to 1.4 months of imports in 1984. With revenues from
exports levelling off and amortization payments growing, the debt service
ratio increased from 28.6 percent in 1982 to about 36 percent in 1984. On
the other hand the level of debt outstanding and disbursed decreased further
from $13.9 billion in 1982 to an estimated level of $12.7 billion at the end
of 1984.
14.      While the current account balance was stabilized, non-hydrocarbon
GDP kept growing at the high rate of 7.4 percent on average in real terms
between 1982 and 1984. This growth momentum was mainly generated by
manufacturing and construction industries. Investment expenditures
accelerated towards the end of the 1980-84 Plan period without however
reaching the original targets for the end year. During 1982-84, consumption
grew at 4.8 percent p.a. in real terms, lower than the 6.2 percent overall



-5-
GDP growth, thus allowing for the growth of domestic savings to about 39Z of
GDP in 1984. Overall, GNP per capita growtl was maintained at a rate of 2.2
percent p.a. in real terms during this stabilization period. On the
institutional side, major reforms have been carried out in the last three
years, in line with the objectives of the 1980-84 Plan, and with long term
objectives. They include a reorganization of Ministries of Planning and
Finance; regional and sectoral decentralization, as well as financial
restructuring of the public enterprise and the socialist agriculture; a
guided development of the private sc_tor in agriculture and small scale
industry, through new selective credit and fiscal p,licies; and a vigorous
program of house construction with the help of foreign contractors.  A
national agricultural bank was also created. It is still too soon to
ascertain the impact of thc-e reforms on the development prospects of the
economy. The cost of the financial restructuring, and the priority given to
investment in housing and infrastructures caused high treasury deficits
(12.7 percent of GDP during 1982-84), particularly during a period of
stagnation of fiscal revenues from hydrocarbons. However, the major part of
the deficits was financed from domestic sources, thanks to a 9.5 p.a. growth
of domestic savings in real terms from 1982 to 1984.
Social Development
15.      During the implementation of past and current Plans, social
development continued rapidly, favoring particularly the most disadvantaged
groups. Policy measures which contribute to raising the living standards of
those groups have included increases in the guaranteed minimum wage, free
education and health services, increases in producer prices for agricultural
products and subsidies on basic commodities. Large salary increases were
granted by the Government in 1978 and 1980, and the minimum agricultural
wage was raised to the level of the minimum wage in industry. The
disadvantaged groups have also benefited from fhe implementation of the
agrarian reforms, the creation of non-agricultural employment in the less
developed regions, (multiplication of small and medium-scale enterprises at
the regional and local levels), construction of public housing and rapid
development of free health care, education, training and other social
services. Overall, Government current and capital expenditure directly
affecting social development increased to 52 percent of total direct
Government expenditure in 1982 (from 50 percent in 1977, and 45 percent in
1973).
i6.      According to the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was
17.1 million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living abroad,
mainly in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977, annual population growth was
estimated at 3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from 31 percent
to 41 percent of the total resident population. Some 57 percent of the
population is now under 20 years of age. Together with a 6 percent p.a.
rate of urban population growth, this factor is causing an extremely rapid
increase in the demand for housing, social services, urban facilities and
employment. More than half a million jobs were created in industry and
services during the 1974-77 Plan and the rate of unemployment in
non-agricultural sectors was reduced to about 18 percent in 1977 and



-6-
14 percent in 1981. Considerable efforts to create employment will still be
needed in coming years, however, to cope with existing unemployment and
underemployment and absorb the additional labor force. Another problem
facing Algeria is the shortage of skilled labor in many sectors. This
shortage is likely to persist for many years in spite of considerable
training efforts.
Medium-term Prospects
17.      Algeria's economic and financial prospects depend on three main
factors: the level of hydrocarbon export revenues; the level and sectoral
composition of the country's investment; and the pace of improvement in the
efficiency of the economic system. Bank staff projections take into account
the policy framework for conservation of hydrocarbon resources, which has
been introduced by Algeria in 1980 and confirmed in the 1980-84 Plan. With
a view to maintaining a long term growth in hydrocarbon export volumes and
ensuring the energy supply of the country, the policy objective consists of
simultaneously establishing the appropriate levels of hydrocarbon exports
and external borrowing for balancing financing needs, while reducing
moderately the debt burden from its current level.
18.     In this context, it is projected that Algeria could maintain an
overall CDP growth rate of about 6.2 percent p.a. during 1984-87, based on a
high growth of the non- hydrocarbon industry (about 9 percent p.a.). During
1987-1990, GDP growth would remain relatively rapid in non hydrocarbon
sectors. Hydrocarbon value added would grow at about 3 percent p.a. during
1985-90, mainly to increase deliveries related to gas export contracts and
to meet high domestic energy consumption requirements. Within the
constraints of the policy framework, and assuming further improvements in
efficiency of capital, investment would grow by about 4.6 percent a year in
real terms during 1984-87 and decelerate further in 1987-90. The ratio of
investment to GDP at constant prices would then decline from 41 percent in
1984 to 37 percent in 1990. This would allow consumption to grow relatively
fast in the second half of the 1980s, at rates close to those observed in
the 1970s (see Annex I, p.4).
19.      The projections are very sensitive to the assumption on oil .nd gas
prices. The long term growth of Algeria's crude oil prices is based on the
assumption of an average decrease in price in real terms by 1.5X p.a. to
1990 from the 1984 level of about $28 per barrel, in accordance with current
Bank forecasts. It also includes a slow recovery of past price
differentials relative to heavier crudes. The gas price projections reflect
the gains obtained in past negotiations towards alignment with the price of
oil. Based on these price assumptions and on growing export volumes of gas
consistent with fulfillments of existing contracts, exports revenues of
hydrocarbons could grow at an average of 9.0 percent a year in current
dollars during the period 1984-90. Total export levels would not be high
enough, however, to fully finance the imports required to sustain the
industrial development and to ensure a progressive transition towards a
consumption led growth. The average current balance deficit could amount to
about $1 billion p.a. in 1985-90.



-7-
20.      With this level of expected external deficit and amortization
payments averaging $3.9 billion a year, Algeria's external financing needs
could retch an average of $5.1 annually during the same period on a
commitment basis. This compares with averages of $2.5 billion yearly in
1980-83 and $4.7 billion earlier in 1975-79. In the past, most of the
financing extended to Algeria came from private sources (95 percent in
1983). The remaining were bilateral credits (4 percent) and loans from
international organizations. The future financing needs could probably be
met mainly by suppliers and buyers credits linked to future projects, and by
some official credits. The relative stability of the expected amortization
pattern associated with a growing exports from existing gas contracts would
induce a reduction of the debt service ratio from about 36 percent in 1984
to 25 percent in 1990. Due to the large private financing component, the
average interest rate on new loans has been quite high (9.9 percent in
1983), and the average maturity relatively short (about 7 years). Such
terms of external debt tend to maintain a high debt service level, and to
limit further reductions in the debt service ratio.
21.      In the longer run, gas markets are projected to become more
competitive, and large new contracts similar to those obtained in the early
80's may be more difficult to obtain. Algeria's hydrocarbon exports might
decelerate beyond 1990, while import demand for consumer goods could
increase further, as a result of a growing share of consumption in total
expenditure. Hydrocarbons export performance will mainly depend on
Algeria's ability to maintain or increase its market share. Export
performance will also depend on making progress in developing non
hydrocarbon exports, while import performance will rely upon efficient
import substitution, especially for consumer goods. Positive external trade
and creditworthiness developments beyond 1990 could thus depend on the
effectiveness of policies to diversify exports and raise the efficiency of
import substitution in the coming years. Some of these policies, such as
the restruct-zring of large public enterprises or a hi&er participation of
the private sector in investment activities, have already been initiated.
External Debt
22.      At the end of 1983, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was US$13.1 billion (US$18.8 billion including undisbursed)
equivalent to 27.8 percent of GDP. It is projected to decline to
17.5 percent of GDP in 1990. The World Bank's share of Algeria's total
external debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1983 was 2.5 percent and is
projected to re-nain below 5 percent over the next five years. Total debt
service owed to the World Bank in 1983 was about $46 million, about
1 percent of total debt service paid during the same year. It should remain
at below 2.5 percent of total debt service up to the end of the decade.



-8-
PART ID BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
23.      The Bank has made twenty-seven loans to Algeria totaling
US$1,591 million. After three early loans (two before Independence) there was
an interval of about nine years when the Bank had no on-going projects in
Algeria. Lending resumed in FY73. and in the period of June 1973 to July 1980
twenty-two loans totaling US$1,120.5 million were approved. The bulk of these
loans were in the sectors of education (focussed on meeting the demand for
skilled manpower) and infrastructure (highways, railway, ports, water supply
and sewerage, and power), where Bank lending aimed at solving development
bottlenecks in lagging sectors. There were in addition two loans to industry
(one for industrial finance, and the other for cement); two in agriculture
(for irrigation and meat production); and a technical assistance loan for
rural development. No new loans were made from mid-1980 until December 1983
when a loan for a telecommunications project was approved by the Executive
Directors. In June 1984, the Executive Directors approved the Algiers
Regional Water Supply Project. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of March 31, 1985. Current outstanding principal as of March 31,
1985 was about $956 million.
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work dialogue with the Government led
to a basic economic report in 1966, and several studies on economic
development and prospects in the 1970s, complemented by sectoral analyses in
agriculture and industry. These were followed by a study of enterprise
financing ari the banking system in 1980, and a review of the 1980/84
deve.;_---: plan.  An updating Country Economic Memorandum as well as a review
of the 1985/89 development plan is planned for this year. Future economic
work is likely to focus on assessing medium-term prospects, and their
implications for overall economic mauagement.
25.      Since 1980, the Algerian authorities and'the Bank have been
increasingly concerned by the low rate of disbursements on Bank loans
resulting from pervasive problems affecting project implementation.
Disbursement rates-  on loans to Algeria declined steadily from about 20
percent in FY76 to a low of 5.3 percent in FY80, and were substantially below
Regional and Bank-wide averages. Procurement-related issues, the slow pace of
contract approval and award, and delays in critical decisions (e.g. on the
construction of the steel complex which was crucial for the economic
justification of the Jijel port project) were the principal reasons for slow
project implementation. At the Annual Meetings in 1980 and '981, and in other
high-level contacts (particularly two Country Implementation Reviews in
November 1981, and June 1982), agreement was reached to improve project
performance through specific measures; such as, monitoring and follow-up, and
cancellation by mutual agreement of projects and project components where it
did not appear likely that progress or resolution would be forthcoming soon.
Following cancellations of about $262 million by FY82, and a further
$156 million by FY8'., the Bank's portfolio in Algeria was trimmed to
11 Disbursement rates are defined as total amounts disbursed during a
fiscal year divided by total undisbursed amounts at the beginning of the
same fiscal year.



-9-
ten projects. Progress on the remaining projects continues to be monitored
closely and disbursements rates have again reached regional averages.
Disbursements in the highways and water supply sectors have started to
accelerate as major contracts begin execution.
26.      The Government has now agreed that, in the future, project
preparation activities should be guided by the following principles: i) major
project and sector issues should be resolved at an early stage of the project
cycle (such as procurement and financial policy objectives); ii) projects
should be submitted for Bank financing only after key actions necessary for
prompt initiation of project execution have been taken; and iii) project
preparation should be undertaken in sectors where there are no major policy
obstacles, and where full commitment to Bank standards and procedures exists.
With the adoption of chese principles, preparatior. work on several projects
was discontinued. It has also been agreed that future lending would focus on
large infrastructure projects (telecommunications, water supply, transport,
and power). The Government views such operations as useful vehicles for
improving public enterprise efficiency, and regards the Bank's role to
reinforce analytical rigor, contribute to institution building, and improve
development planning. Water supply, in particular, represents a sector in
which investments have lagged relative to other sectors but it has now become
a priority sector. Similarly, proposed highways and rail projects are
expected to address questions of bottlenecks and investmenL priorities on
important transport corridors, as well as to strengthen institutional
capacity. A possible irrigation project, a third power project and a second
telecomunications project could comprise time-slices of the respective
sector's investment programs.
27.      The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support remains a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which
the Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the
Governmeut in improving economic, sector and financial management, as well as
project preparation and implementation. These factors have been prominent in
the Bank's economic dialogue with the Government. Previous projects have
included technical assistance to enhance the appraisal capability of the
Algerian Development Bank and improve auditing of national companies.
Technical assistance in irstitutional and financial policies were major
features of the Algiers Sewerage and Regional Water Supply Projects (Loans
1545-AL and 2461-AL). Under the Fifth Education Project (Loan 1803-AL)
technical assistance was provided in the areas of vocational apprenticeship
and training. Technical assistance would also be a major feature of the
present project, and would be directed mainly to strengthening planning,
institutional deveLopment and financial policies in the water supply and
sewerage sector, as well as to improve project implementation and management.
PART m - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Backrund
28.      Water resources in Algeria are generally limited and difficult to
exploit. Rainfall is unevenly distributed over the seasons, as are water



- 10 -
resources among the regions. Over 95 percent of the population (currently
estimated at 21.0 million) lives north of the Saharan Atlas. Almost half of
this population lives in urban areas, the largest and most important of these,
besides Algiers, are the areas of Constantine and Oran, which contain about
1.1 million inhabitants. Most of the rural population resides in Eixed
settlements.
29.      Groundwater represents over two-thirds of available water resources
in Algeria and is used to supply a majority of cities. However, overpumping
of the aquifers is lowering the water table, and could lead to degradation of
the quality of the water. Surfa_c water sources must be developed to meet
rising demand. In the large cities, water supply and sewerage systems are
obsolete and inadequate; water supply is intermittent and about one-third of
the water produced is not accounted for. While over 80 percent of the urban
population is provided with direct water service lines, only a third of this
population can be considered well served. About 70 percent of the urban
population is connected to public sewer networks, most of which are combined
systems evacuating also storm water runoff. Wastewaters in cities are
discharged untreated into the sea or rivers, creating in some cases
enviromental pollution and posing health hazards. Present service levels in
rural areas are, however, considered adequate. The need for substantial
investments in urban water supply systems is further increased by the growing
pressure of population (increasing at 3.2 percent p.a. nation-wide but at 5 to
6 percent p.a. in urban areas), and by the rapid growth of industry. About 40
percent of the rural population has direct access to public water supply
networks, and 25 percent to sewerage.
The Water Supply Situationin Oran and Constantine
30.      Greater Oran, with a current population of 800,000, is the second
largest metropolitan area in Algeria and includes the cities of Oran, Arzew,
Es Senia and a large group of suburban towns. It is a very industrialized
area where petrochemical plants and liquefied natural gas activities are
concentrated along the Oran-Arzew corridor. Water supply and sewerage
services in Greater Oran are provided by "Enterprise de Production, de Gestion
et de Distribution d'Eau d'Oran" (EPEOR).
31.      Commercial activities in the eastern part of the country are
concentrated in Constantine City, the third largest urban agglomeration. It
has a current population of about 500,000, growing at an annual rate of
3.2 percent. In addition to the city of Constantine, the Constantine
metropolitan area includes the cities of El Khroub, Ain Smara and Ramma
Bouziane giving a combined population of about 600,000. Water supply azid
sewerage services in Greater Constantine are provided by "Enterprise de
Production, de Gestion et de Distribution d'Eau de Constantine" (EPECO).
32.      Most of Greater Oran's present water supply comes from surface
sources located far away from the city (80 to 180km). A small portion of the
supply is derived from groundwater close to the citv. The quality of this
groundwater, however, is poor and does not meet accepted standards for potable



- 11 -
water. Contrary to Oran, Greater Constantine's water supply presently comes
exclusively from groundwater which is also used for irrigation. Drinking
water in Constantine is very hard with high conductivity. The contents of
manganese and chlorides are close to the maximum permissible levels
established under the norms of the World Health Organization (WHO).
33.      Due to the recent renovation of the distribution networks of these
metropolitan areas, water losses in both systems do not exceed 20 percent of
production. The available storage capacity in both cities is considered
adequate and no immediate increase in storage is required. Supply, however,
is intermittent with most consumers receiving water every other day or only a
few hours a day.
34.      Older areas of Oran and Constantine are served by sewer systems in
which wastewaters and storm water runoff are collected and conveyed in the
same conduits, whereas newer areas are equipped with separate systems in which
wastewaters and runoff are drained in different conduits. Most water
consumers are connected to sewer networks which are generally in good
condition. Presently, wastewaters are not treated prior to their discharge
into the Rhumel River in Constantine and into the bay in Oran. -Because the
receiving waters do not have sufficient capacity to absorb the polluting load,
treatment facilities in Constantine and a sea outfall in Oran must be built in
the future. A major expansion of the sewer network is planned under the
proposed project for Constantine. For Oran, a sewerage study, partly financed
under loan 1545-AL (Algiers Sewerage Project), is now underway.
35.      Current available water production in Oran is estimated at 78.6 Mm3
p.a. or about 35 percent below the estimated demand. In the Constantine area,
the demand in 1984 was estimated to be 35.3 Mm3, while the available
production was only 19.8 Mm3 , resulting in a deficit of 15.5 Mm3 or
44 percent of demand. A large portion of water consumed in Oran is for
iudustrial use, which accounted for almost 30 percent of the volumes of water
sales in 1984. In terms of revenue, industrial sales accounted for a much
larger percentage, as the industrial tariff was three times higher than the
domestic one. On the other hand, in Constantine, industrial use accounts for
less than one percent of the volume consumed. Water is primarily for domestic
use and other uses represent less than 15 percent of the total sales.
Sector Organization and Development
36.      The Ministry of Hydraulics, Environment and Forestry (MHEF)
(established in 1977, incorporating the former Secretariat of Hydraulics) is
responsible for the development and conservation of the country's water
resources and the planning and construction of water supply and sewer
systems. Thirteen regional companies, created in May 1983, operate and
maintain water supply and sewerage facilities in the country. The regional
companies were set up on the model of the Algiers authority, the Societe des
Eaux de V'Agglomiration d'Alger (SEDAL), under the Algiers Sewerage Project
(1545-AL) to manage water supply and sewerage services in Greater Algiers.
SEDAL was transformed into a regional authority, Entreprise de Production, de



- 12 -
Gestion et de Distribution d'Eau d'Alger (EPEAL), in May 1983, and is now
solely under the supervision of the MHEF.
37.      In conjunction with the creation of the regional authorities, in July
1983, the Government issued a Water Code to regulate the allocation and
collection of water resources and to set out financial policies for the
sector. In addition to dealing with ownership, coneession, and use of water
resources, the Code states as a principle that water utilities should be
managed as commercial enterprises and that necessary tariffs be implemented to
make them financially self-supporting. It further recommends that tariffs for
industrial and commercial consumption be set sufficiently high to encourage
economic use of water.
38.      To coordinate the operations of the regional companies and to some
extent optimize the use of financial resources in the sector, the MEEF is
considering establishing a national regulatory agency, to assist the Ministry
in planning water supply and sewerage investments and in identifying the level
of Government contributions to the regional companies. The agency would also
formulate detailed policies for the sector and oversee the operations of the
regional companies. Technical assistance for establishing the functions and
responsibilities of the agency is being financed under the Algiers Regional
Water Supply project (Loan 2461-AL). -
39.      Until recently, lack of sound fluancial policies, delays in
decision-making at the Ministry level, and lack of qualified and experienced
engineering and administrative staff were the main constraints to sector
development. In general, water tariffs have remained low over the last decade
because past investments in water supply and sewerage facilities were financed
by Government grants and the municipalities were therefore reluctant to
implement effective tariffs. Administrative delays have been particularly
conspicuous in the application of procurement procedures and have led to cost
overruns in some projects. The shortage of competent staff was accentuated by
a weak and fragmented sector organization.
40.      These constraints, however, are now being mitigated by the new sector
organization, whereby operational responsibility has been given to regional
companies. A new Water Code has also cleared the way for the implementation
of more acceptable financial policies. Delays in procurement should be
lessened by revised regulations, which the Government introduced in 1983 and
through project related technical assistance. Staff constraints would be
lessened through the graduation of more engineers and managers from technical
scbools, such as the training school created under the Algiers Sewerage
Project (1545-AL) and through the provision of further technical assistance.
'>1_    It is estimated that, during the recent Five-Year Plan (1980-1984),
investments in the order of US$1.2 billion (DA 6.0 billion) or about US$60.0
per capita, have been made in the sector. During the forthcoming Five-Year
Plan (1985-1989), the Ministry of Hydraulics is proposing to invest
US$9.0 billion (DA 45.0 billion) in the hydraulic sector - 50 percent in



- 13 -
water supply and sewerage works. The projected increase of investments during
the next plan is substantial (almost four times the level of investments
during the preceding plan in current prices) and demonstrates the Government's
commitment to improving rapidly the conditions and service levels in the
sector.
Previous Bank Lending and Sector Obiectives
42.      The Bank has financed three loans in the water supply and sewerage
sector. The US$82 million Algiers Sewerage Project (1545-AL) financed the
construction of sewer interceptors and a sewage treatment plant in Greater
Algiers and management and engineering studies in the cities of Algiers,
Constantine and Oran. One of the objectives of this FY78 project was to
strengthen the sector organization in Greater Algiers through the creation of
a regional water supply and sewerage authority (SEDAL). In spite of some
delays in implementing agreed policies, the SEDAL experience has been
satisfactory, and has led to the recent Government decision to set up similar
authorities in the rest of the country.
43.      The execution of works included in the Algiers Sewerage Project has
progressed well after initial delays. Nevertheless, the project completion is
expected some four years later (end of 1987) than projected at appraisal,
because of delays in inscribing the project in the national budget, appointing
consultants, additional review by the MHEF project design, and slow
procurement of the works.
44.      The second Bank loan in the sector, for US$5 million, was the Water
Supply Engineering Project (S-17-AL), made in FY80. It financed studies to
assess urban, industrial and agricultural water requirements in Greater
Algiers and surrounding areas, the design of new water production facilities
for the Greater Algiers metropolitan area, and the preparation of a master
plan for potable water distribution in Greater Algiers. The studies are
completed and were used to define the third Bank Loan in the sector - the
Algiers Regional Water Supply project. In June 1984, the Executive Directors
approved the US$290 million loan (2461-AL) to help finance expansion of water
production and distribution in Greater Algiers.  The loan was declared
effective in January 1985.
45.      The Bank's role in the sector is to assist the Government to
strengthen its project planning and implementation capacity and to establish a
strong institutional framework, with support for sector policy formulation.
The association with the Bank is expected to enhance the standing of the new
regional authorities, strengthen their independence, and help assure the
implementation of appropriate financial policies. The Algiers projects were
instrumental in the creation of the regional companies and the implementation
of more realistic pricing policies for water supply and sewerage services in
the Algiers area. By setting national tariffs, the proposed project would
allow the Government and the Bank to pursue their shared policy objectives of
further strengthening sector organization by consolidating the efficiency and
financial viability of the regional companies.



- 14 -
PART Iv - THE PROJECT
46.      Feasibility studies financed under the FY80 Engineering project
(S-17-AL) were completed in 1982 and resulted in the subsequent identification
and preparation of the proposed project. Project appraisal took place in
September 1984 and negotiations in Washington on April 22, 1985. The Algerian
delegation was led by Mr. Oualitsene from the Ministry of Finance. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "National Water Supply and Sewerage Project" (No.
5452a-AL, dated May 10, 1985) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III; a Loan and Project Summary is provided
at the beginning of the report, and Naps no. IBRD 18687, 18688 and 18689R
(attached) display the location of project activities.
Project Objectives
47.      The project will help expand water produc'ion and distribution in the
Greater Oran and Constantine areas to the level required to meet unsatisfied
demand and future peak demand. It would help increase the efficiency of the
water distribution systems and improve the water quality in both metropolitan
areas. Technical assistance and training would be provided to the recently
established regional companies to help them streamline their organization,
operational procedures and financial systems.
ProjectlDscnjtion
48.      The project includes:
for Oran     n
(i)   collection, treatment and conveyance of the Lower Tafna River waters
to increase the supply to Oran by about 221,000 m3/day;
(ii)   construction of a demineralization plant with a capacity of 400
liters/sec. to lower the total dissolved solids content of water
distributed in Oran to about 1,000 mg/liter;
(iii)   rehabilitation of the Beni Bahdel and Fergoug water production
systems;
for Constantine
(iv)   treatment and transmission of the Rhumel River water to supply about
40,000 m3/day to Constantine;
(v)   collection and softening of groundwater in the Constantine area to
produce an average flow of 40,000 m3/day;



- 15 -
(vi)   expansion and improvement of the primary water distribution network
in Constantine City;
(vii)   collection and treatment of wastewater in Constantine for use in
agriculture;
other-
(viii)   supply of operational equipment, including master and domestic water
meters, to all the regional companies;
(ix)   technical assistance to the regional companies and staff training; and
(x)   preparation of water supply and sewerage projects to meet demands in
urban areas.
Main Features
Oran
49.      The proposed project would consist of a diversion dam on the Lower
Tafna River from which water would be pumped to a natural reservoir (Djebel
Zioua) with a capacity of 15Mm3, sufficient to compensate for variations in
the river flows.  From this reservoir, water would be withdrawn and treated in
a conventional plant and then conveyed to Oran. To prevent seepage in the
reservoir, an impervious membrane would be laid down over the ground. The
average yield of the Lower Tafna River system would be about 2.56 m3/sec.
50.      The demineralization of groundwater in Oran would be accomplished in
a reverse osmosis plant, with an efficiency of 70 percent. Its output would
have a total dissolved solids content of about 500 mg/liter. The output would
be mixed with the other sources and the resulting dissolved solids content of
water distributed in Oran would be around 1,000 mg/liter.
Constantine
51.      Contrary to Oran, Greater Constantine's water supply presently comes
from groundwater which is also used for irrigation in the area. As mentioned
previously, the Constantine region is one of the driest areas in the country.
Some surface water sources exist but with relatively small yields and far away
from the populated centers. One of them is the Rhumel River, which would be
diverted to meet some of the water needs in the Constantine area. In
addition, reuse of wastewaters is now considered absolutely necessary if both
urban and agricultural water needs are to be met.
52.      The proposed project envisages the exclusive use of groundwater for
urban supply and the replacement of the part now used for irrigation by
treated wastewater. At the same time, the Rhumel River would be regulated by
an impounding dam (ramnmam Grouz) now under construction, to provide an average
yield of 0.5m3/sec. Prior to its distribution in Constantine, the Hamma
Bouziane groundwater would be softened through the elimination of the



- 16 -
carbonate hardness by the addition of lime. New reservoirs and connecting
pipelines would be built to distribute the additional water. The dam as well
as the treatment facilities would be located at about 90 kms. from
Constantine. With the addition of the Hamma Bouziane groundwater scheme, the
overall supply to Greater Constantine would be increased by about lm3/sec.
or more than double the present production. Meanwhile, additional sewage
collectors would be installed in Greater Constantine to transport the
wastewaters to an extended aeration plant where they would be treated and then
reused for irrigation. A reservoir for storage of the plant effluent for a
limited period and a pipeline connecting it to the existing irrigation network
would also be built under the proposed project.
Assistance to Regional Companies
53.      The recently created regional companies are still in an early stage
of development and need assistance in establishing sound organizational
structures and operational procedures.; In order to arrive at a uniform
structure for all the regional companies, a management assistance program
would be introduced. The program, coordinated by MHEF, would employ a single
consulting firm to ensure uniform recommendations. The consultants would be
retained to advise on certain aspects of the companies' organization and
management, financial procedure and tariff policies.
54.      The management assistance program would also cover the companies'
financial structure but would address the particular needs of each. It would
Ci) develop project revenues, (ii) formulate attainable financial objectives,
and (iii) indicate which portions of the companies' capital investments would
be financed by loans, internal cash generation, and by Government
contributions, based on the companies' goal of progressively increasing their
self-financing capacity. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
not later than July 1, 1986, MHEF would employ qualified consultants to carry
out the management assistance program in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
Project Imjleentation
55.     The project would be implemented by the MHEF over five years
(implementation will start by mid 1985) and is expected to be completed ty end
1990. Three departments of this ministry would assure the project execution.
The Hydraulic Works Department (DGIH) would be responsible for the
construction of the project works. This department is currently constructing
new water works for Algiers City, which are partially financed by Bank Loan
2461-AL. The Planning and Studies Department (DGPE) would carry out
feasibility studies and detailed design of water supply and sewerage in the
country's urban areas. DGPE was the executing agency for the Water Resources
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project in Greater Algiers, financed by
Loan S-17-AL. Finally the program of management assistance to the regional
companies and staff training would be monitored by the Promotion and Control
Department (DGAC). The above departments are well organized and staffed.
However, in view of some highly specialized treatment processes involved in



- 17 -
the project, DGIH's staff would be assisted by engineering consultants who
would be retained in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants, by December 31, 1985. Engineering consultants required for the
feasibility studies would be retained by July 1, 1986, also under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
56.      MHEF's Operations Department (DGE) normally operates and maintains
dams and irrigation structures. Under the proposed project, it would continue
to provide such services to EPECO for the Hammam Grouz Dam, and to EPEOR for
the Djebel Zioua Embankment on a fee for service basis. Regular inspections
of the Hamman Grouz Dam are essential and would be made by engineering experts
satisfactory to the Bank. Following the inspections, DGE would carry out any
necessary remedial actions suggested by the experts (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04).
55.      The remaining project facilities would be operated by EPEOR and
EPECO. To ensure that by the time the;project becomes operational in early
1991, the staff of EPEOR and EPECO would have the technical capability
required to operate and maintain properly the project's facilities, the
project provides for on-the-job staff training. In particular, staff training
for operators of the treatment plants has been provided for in the
construction contracts. The training would take place in Algeria and overseas
and would be carried out by the plant manufacturers.
Project Costs and Fnning
58.      The total project cost is estimated at US$571.7 million
(DA 2,859.0 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$312.8 million
(DA 1,883.5 million) or about 55 percent of total costs, including taxes. The
cost estimates were prepared on the basis of actual contracts or bids for
about 60 percent of the project works. The reibaining cost estimates are based
on detailed design of the project components. Physical contingencies were set
at 15 percent. Price escalation rates used for local costs were 7 percent
during the project execution period. Foreign expenditures were estimated with
price escalation rates of 5 percent in 1985, 7.5 percent in 1986, and
8 percent thereafter. Total price escalation represents about 15 percent of
the base costs plus physical contingencies and construction supervision. The
project provides for an estimated 2,100 man-months of consultancy services for
technical assistance to the regional companies, project preparation and
construction supervision.
59.      A Bank loan of US$262 million equivalent would finance 84 percent of
the foreign exchange costs of the project, and would be made to the Government
for a period of 15 years including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. The Government would finance the balance of foreign
exchange (US$50.8 million) and local costs (US$258.9 million equivalent).
Government's financial participation would subsequently be turned into equity
contributions to EPEOR and EPECO. The companies should be required to reflect
these contributions in their statutory capital. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations (Project Agreements, Section 4.02). In
addition, it was agreed that the Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk.



- 18 -
60.      Upon completion of the project's works, the Government would transfer
ownership of the new facilities to EPEOR and EPECO which would operate, manage
and maintain them (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The legislation governing
water supply and sewerage operations in Algeria requires that the regional
companies finance their investments principally by long-term loans and
eventually develop a self-financing capability. It was therefore agreed that
EPEOR and EPECO would reLmburse the Government for the portions of the Bank
loan contracted for their investments. These portions would amount to US$173
million and US$68 million respectively. To these amounts would be added
interest and other charges paid by the Government during the construction
period. The reimbursement would be made over 20 years beginning in 1991, with
an interest rate of 10 percent (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6). Details of the
reimbursement arrangements would be set forth in Reimbursement Agreements
between the Government and EPEOR and EPECO. The execution of these agreements
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
Procurement and Dibursement
61.     MHEEF is in the process of awarding two contracts representing about
60 percent of total project costs or US$343.0 million. The bidding procedures
(ICB) have conformed to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and, under the
proposed project, the Bank is proposing to finance the foreign exchange cost
of the two contracts. All remaining contracts or goods and civil works under
the project would be awarded following international competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank, with the exception of a steel pipe contract
which has been reserved for a local company and consequently will not be
financed by the Bank. In evaluating bids for the supply of equipment and
materials, a 15 percent margin of preference or the actual customs duties,
whichever is lower, would be applied to goods manufactured in Algeria.
Consulting services amounting to US$15.5 million would be procured according
to Bank Guidelines.
62.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (i) 55 percent of
total expenditures for civil works which include the supply of equipment and
materials; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 70 percent of local
expenditures for the supply of equipment; and (iii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for consultants' services and training. Eligible expenditures
made from January 1, 1985 would be financed retroactively. Retroactive
financing of US$12 million is foreseen. Because the procurement process is
quite advanced for this project, disbursements are expected to progress
rapidly during the project execution. The loan would be fully disbursed by
1992.
63.      In order to make prompt payments to contractors and consultants for
the project, the Bank has agreed to advance funds for a Revolving Fund. The
Fund would be in US dollars and would be maintained at the Central Bank of
Algeria for a maximum amount of US$12.0 million which would cover the Bank's
share of eligible expenditures on the project over a period of about three
months. Applications for replenishment of funds with appropriate supporting



- 19 -
documentation covering the use of the Fund, would be submitted when
approximately half the maximum allowed amount in the Fund has been spent.
The Beneficiaries
64.      Potable water supply and sewerage services in Algeria are now
provided by 13 regional public enterprises which were established by
Presidential Decrees in 1983. These regional companies started to function
only in early 1984. They have a corporate statute, are financially autonomous
and managed as commercial undertakings. They operate under the tutelage of
MHEF which exercises overall governmental control, such as approval of
investment programs, annual budgets and financial statements, decisions on
borrowing and tariff levels.
65.      Each company has a Board of Directors comprising seven members,
chaired by a General Manager, who supervises the company's activities. All
Board members are full-time managers:with the exception of two Board members
who represent the workers. The General Managers are appointed by Presidential
decree upon nomination by the Minister of Hydraulics, and are responsible for
day-to-day operations.
66.      At the end of 1984 EPEOR and EPECO had 500 and 420 employees,
respectively. To date, however, these two companies have only taken over
responsibility for a few of the agglomerations in their jurisdiction and the
number of their employees is expected to increase substantially in 1985 and
1986, i.e. to 1,250 and 710 respectively by mid-1987. This would represent a
ratio of about 7 employees per 10,000 people served, which is considered
adequate. This ratio would be monitored during the project execution.
67.      Salaries and employment conditions in the companies are satisfactory,
though salaries are slightly lower than in the industry and energy sectors.
The companies are not expected, however, to experience difficulties in
recruiting staff. In addition, MHEF would carry out a US$3.5 million national
training program in the sector, to help alleviate any lack of skilled staff
availability (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
EPEOR's and EPECO's Einancl Position
68.      Estimated 1984 income statements, balance sheets, sources and
applications of funds show that EPEOR had an operating deficit of DA 13.5
million (US$2.7 mil?ion), and an operating ratio of 127 percent, while EPECO
had a negative income before depreciation of DA 8.1 million (US$1.6 million)
and an operating deficit of DA 15.2 million (US$3.0 million). These deficits
were covered by Government contributions as were most of the existing fixed
assets. As a result, the regional companies have virtually no long term debt,
as reflected in the estimated debt:equity ratio of 1:99 for EPEOR and EPECO at
the end of 1984. The relatively high level of receivables are due to the
companies' practice of billing a full year's consumption at year-end.
Receivables, however, will be reduced with the introduction of quarterly
billing in 1986.



_ 20 -
69.      EPEOR and EPECO derive their revenues largely from water sales.  The
water tariffs of Oran and Constantine have remained unchanged since 1958. In
1984 they averaged DA 0.65/m3 (US$0.13/m3) in Oran and DA 0.60Mr3
(US$0.12/m3) in Constantine. The present tariffs are too low as shown by
the large deficits experienced by EPEOR and EPECO in 1984 and in previous
years. These deficits, however, had little if any visibility, since the water
supply operations were part of the municipal budgets financed by the
Government.
70.     The financial situation of the entities, however, is expected to
improve substantially with the approval by the Government of a new progressive
tariff structure which would become effective in September 1985. The approval
by the Government of the new tariff structure is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). It is, however, expected
to be met before the date of loan signature, in which case section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement would be deleted. Under the new structure, three classes have
been set out for domestic consumption with rates varying from DA 1.OO/M3 for
the first usage block to DA 2.5/M3 for the highest one. Public consumption
woud be charged at DA 2.5J/m3 and industrial and commercial uses at DA
3.0m/3. The new tariff structure is expected to yield an average revenue of
DA 2.16/r3 in 1986 for EPEOR and DA 1.90/m3 for EPECO, as compared to DA
0.6/M3 in 1984. As a result, EPEOR and EPECO will have respective operating
surplus of US$ 12.2 million and US$ 1.3 million in 1986, and will be able to
finance part of their capital investments with internally generated funds.
71.     Based on the assumptions made in preparing the companies' future
financial performance. EPEOR should be able to finance about 15 percent of its
investments with internally generated cash from 1987 onward, while EPECO could
finance 10 percent of its investments in 1987, and 15 percent in 1988 and
subsequent years. The forecast net internal cash generation, though modest in
the beginning, would represent a major improvement over past performance and
is acceptable at present. One of the key assumptions in the above forecast is
that tariffs would increase annually by 4 percent for EPEOR and 7 percent for
EPECO, well within the margin of affordability of the consumers. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government, EPEOR and EPECO on
these financial performance objectives (Project Agreements, Section 4.03
(a)). In addition, assurances were obtained that not later tha;: December 1 of
each year, starting in 1986, EPEOR and EPECO will prepare and review with the
Government and the Bank their financial forecast for the next three years,
indicating the necessary actions they will take to generate adequate revenues
during the ensuing year to meet the financial covenant (Project Agreements,
Section 4.03 (b)).
Audit and Raportn
72.     MKZF maintains separate accounts and records of its projects.  A
financial controller from the Ministry of Finance permanently controls the
accounts, which nevertheless should be audited regularly by independent
auditors. To this end, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
MHEF's accounts on the project, including the account of the Revolving Fund,
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and



- 21 -
submitted to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year. Certified copies of the accounts as well as the auditors' reports would
also be furnished to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01).
73.      As public enterprises, the accounts of EPEOR and EPECO are subject to
audit by "La Cour des Comptes," a Government accounting office. As this
office generally limits its work to a review of the annual financial
statements, a more systematic audit of the accounts of EPEOR and EPECO would
be necessary. In addition, the staff of the companies, particularly during
their formative years, would benefit from a regular exchange of views with
auditors who have broad experience in public utilities practices. At
negotiations, assurances were given that EPEOR and EPECO would appoint
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit their accounts, and that
certified annual financial statements as well as audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (Project Agreements, Section 4.01).
74.      In order to monitor progress in project implementation, agreement was
reached that EPEOR and EPECO would submit quarterly progress reports to the
Bank (Project Agreements, Section 3.05). Assurances were also obtained that,
within six months following the closing date of the loan, MHEF in conjunction
with EPEOR and EPECO would prepare and submit to the Bank a project completion
report.
Project BenefLts and Justification
75.      The overrid:ng justification for the proposed project is the need to
provide the metropolitan areas of Oran and Constantine with adequate water
supply services, and particularly to improve these services in the poorer
areas where they are most deficient and a majority of the population lives.
The proposed project is the least cost solution to providing an adequate
public water supply.
76.      The project would also generate considerable health and environmental
benefits, leading to reduced expenses on health care, higher productivity of
the population, and improved welfare. Under the recently approved tariff
structure, the lowest income customers would not spend more than 1 percent of
their income for water supply and sewerage, as against the norm of 5 percent,
which indicates that it will be possible to introduce higher rates for
domestic consumption.
77.      The economic rate of return for the project, using the tariffs as a
minimum proxy for benefits, is 9 percent.  The calculated return, however,
understates the many health and environmental benefits not easily
quantifiable. Such understated benefits are: {i) reduced expenses for health
care; (ii) welfare improvement of women and children who actually spend much
time looking for water; (iii) higher productivity of children in school; (iv)
improved welfare of the population, stemming from a cleaner and better
environment; and (v) workers' higher productivity as a result of better
health. The proposed project is also expected to support institution -
building in the sector, by strengthening managerial, operational and financial
policies of EPEOR and EPECO and other recently created regional water
authorities.



- 22 -
RLks
78.      TheL3 is a risk that the Government might not implement the tariff
increases in the timely fashion required to maintain the self-financing ratios
indicated as financial performance objectives for EPEOR and EPECO. This risk
is reduced by the recent decisions taken by the Government regarding the
overall institutional and financial framework and objectives for the sector,
which emphasize that water utilities should be managed as commercial
enterprises and should implement the tariffs necessary to make them
financially self-supporting.  There are no special risks involved in the
technical execution of the project. The availability of contracts or bids for
60 percent of the project components allows a relatively confident estimate of
project costs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMEENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and
EPEOR and EPECO, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Article.s of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.
80.      Special features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements are
referred to in the text and in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions
of effectiveness include: Government approval of the new tariff structure and
execution of the Reimbursement Agreements between the Government and EPEOR and
EPECO (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
81.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1985



-23-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TASLE 3IA
- 'OCIAL  _M n         DAT an ERNS
-                   (DUR T tmsU  UTULATC) /b
Mr                   (NMusainD    cnn mD y'.
1m6es     i7at       nTnLd        u. Anzu a wo uu        uA. um    & cm
TOTAL                            2381.7      2381.7       2381.7
ACRULTURAL                        455.3       442.2        434.3
P mla   n    (n)                     540.0       760.0       2350.0            1149.6                2106.6
mnr wouano  "a cnnm
(1ux;c3435 OF OIL QOvALENr)       221.0      2"3.0        931.0              622.1                 95.5
POPULATION mN VITAL STATISTICS
POVULAXZON.NID-9ARA  (TUSAN)  tosoo.o       13746.0      1911.0
UAN POMUTIOU (2 0F TOTAL)          30.4        34.0         45.1              46.2                  66.5
rmuAnsO PROECTION
PoataUITl IN mA  2000 CNELL)                               0.0
STATIONAY IOMUATI  (MILL)                                113.5
POPULATIOTN                                                1.9
POPULATIO DENISITY
PE SQ. MII.                       4.3         5.6          8.1              36.3                  35.7
MR SQ. M. AGt. LA                23.7        31.1        44.0              461.7                  92.4
POM5ULATION ACE STRUCTURE (I) -
0-14 ns                         43.7        48.1         47.2              43.6                   39.9
15-64 UMS                        52.4        47.6         49.5              53.1                  56.0
65 ANDAZ                          3.9         4.3          3.4               3.3                   4.1
PDOCLATN GR8131l RATE (Zj
TOTAL                             2.1         2.4          3.1               2.8         -         2.4
UBAN                              5.2         3.5          5.4               4.5   .-    .6
CRDE 3lTI: RAT (MR lIMOS)          50.6        49.3         46.6              40.4                  31.3
CRUDE DEWAT RATE (PUR THO)         20.3        16.4         12.8              11.5                   8.1
ROS REPRODUION RATE                 3.6         3.6          3.2               2.8                   2.0
VaULT P1.45313
ACCCPTORS. M ALL (TCUS)            .- 
USERS C OF  An        N                                 .. ..  ..           22.                   40.3
INDE OF MoM    D. P  CAPITA
(1969-11-100)                     110.0       104.0        75.0              97.3                  114.3
PU CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALORES a OF DEQUIRENS)          76.0        78.0         89.0             110.8                  110.6
PROTIS (Rl6 PE DAY)              49.0        49.0        41.0               70.1                  67.3
OP 1613 ANIOL AND PULSE        11.0        11.0         54.0 IC           17.8                   34.1
CRU   (AES 1i-) DEATH RT           N.m         29.7         16.9             14.6                    5.7
LIFE MaECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       47.0        52.5         56.7              57.5                  64.7
11AN IUET. RATE (PM TOSS)         165.0       144.0       111.4             101.5                   60.6
ACMS TO SAFE YA7EI CZPOP)
TOaL                               ..          ..         77.0 /d           59.7                   65.4
URBAN                              ..        84.0        100.0o T          S.5                    78.1
RM.                                ..           -         so.o 7d7         3x.4                   46.2
ACESS TO E A DISPOSAL
(I or popuu.oNi
WEAU                               ''         9.0         48.0 /d            ..                   52.9
URBAN                              ..        13.0         60.077             ..                   67.0
RUAL                               ..         6.0         40.0               ..                   24.5
POPULATION PU PUTSICIZA          5530.0      7870.0       2630.0 /a        4345.1                 1917.7
POP.       SINC PERSON               ..      2730.0        740.0 7;         1831.1                 815.8
PoP. PU HoSPITAL DE-
TOTAL                           310.0       340.0        390.0 A           632.9                 367.2
URBA                            120.0 /f    220.0        330.0 7K          545.5                 411.5
RURAL                              ..          ..           ..            25t3.5                 2636.3
ADKISSIOMS PER OSPrTL SW             ..        14.3         20.1 /l          26.2                   27.3
AVERACQ StY7     IqEUOLD
AhLLIZ MU. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
BAN                                ..         2.l /h
RURAL 
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF DhUJNCS)
TOTAL                              ..        34.0/h         _.              6.2
UBAN                                .        74.0           ..              77.7
RURAL                              ..         2.07          ..              16.1



-24-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
AlMA                   - 8CUiL TDIDXAODS   H
HOST                *T RECENT 3ThAlT) 
19601    19701    zu              W. AncA & NIB KAn        LAY. MEIC. A CAR
ADJUSTED BOLE0NT RATIOB
PRINX:  TOTAL                     46.0        76.0         94.0              68.3                   105.4
NAIZ                   55.0         93.0       106.0              102.3                  106.3
VIKALE                 37.0         38.0        31.0               73.6                  104.5
.ACONOARTi TOTAL                   9.0        11.0         36.0              43.0                    43.2
MALE                    9.0         16.0        42.0               52.3                   42.3
rHEAIZ                  6.0          6.0        29.0               33.0                   44.5
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDAKT)        29.0         19.7          1.4 B            :0.3                    33.6
PUPIL-TEALHll RATIOT
PIUHM2                            36.0        40.0         34.0              30.3                    30.1
SECONDAIt                         13.0        21.0         24.0              23.1                    16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)             10.0 1      26.4         35.0 /a           43.5                    79.5
PASSZINXR CARS/TNDUSAD POP          15.7        10.4         19.5 /d           17.8                    46.0
RADIO RECEIVERSITWOUSAID POP        55.2        63.3        173.0             138.8                   225.6
TV  WECIVERS/TUDUSAND POP            5.6         8.0         52.2              46.1                   107.2
NINSPA ("MDAILY CENTRUL
INTERzSr) CIRCLATIDON
PER T10USAND POPULATON            27.8        20.0         23.5 A            31.2                    63.5
CINA ANNUAL ATTZWlCEICAPITA          2.2         6.5          2.5 N             1.7                     2.8
LANK _ NC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (CT110S)        2593.0      2731.0       4130.0
FWEALZ (PERCEIST)                  4.4         6.6          9.4              10.8                    23.2
AGILTURE (PERCET)                 67.0        50.0         25.4              42.4                    31.5
wUSTRT (PRECT)                    12.0        15.0         25.0              27.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEIr)
TOTAL                             24.1        19.9         20.7              26.2                    32.2
IAIZ                              47.1        37.8         37.9              46.4                    49.3
EKAuLE                             2.1         2.6          3.9               5.8                    15.2
ECONORIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            2.0         2.6          2.4               1.8                     1.4
IEi mllS
PuRCENr COtrP n   IvNC 3CI!M
RECEIVED BY
aImEST 5S OlO RDUSELDS .S
HIGHEST 20S OF 0BOUSEHOLt           ..
-WEST 20S 0F DSIS                   .. HO
LOrEST   oP OF                      ..USE...SS                                                        ..
PO! TAT  -cOs
ESTINATED ABSOLUTE POVET  iCQIE
LEVE (USS PER CAPI)
URBAN                              ..           ..        475.0 jq          274.8                   286.2
RUL                                ..           ..        180.0             177.2                   184.0
ESTIHATED REATE  POVERTY INCQIE
LVE CUS$ PER CAPITA)
URBN                               ..           ..        227.0  c          402.6                   522.8
RURAL                              ..           .          90.0 jf          284.9                   372.4
ESTIMD POP. BFLOW ASSOLUrt
POVUTY nCOE LEE  CE)
URBAN                              ..           ..         20.0M   I.
RUR                                ..           ..           ..                ...
NOT AVAILAIRZ
SOr APPLIALE
N OT I S
/a  The gioup averep for each fndicator are popolation-welghted aritb_tc _mes. Coverag  of coustries aona the
Indlcator. depends on vaiUlbility of data fnd iS not unfom
lb   U.l.l otberwim  noted. oDtae for 1960" refer to any yer be_tee  1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
l971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimte" between 1980 and 1982
/c  1977; /d 1976; /t 1979; /f 1.9Z; &  1978; /h 1966; L Certain fialda of study previoaly claeifUd under oer
secon. revei educAtion oZT-cational or tec  cal nature are no  reported undr general educaton, therefore.
data are not coeparab;c with thoee of earlier year.
JUNE. 1984



-25-                                                                    ARMEI
1111.INIs4113ati                                                          Page   3   of   5
Mt-,e AttBo  abs.1..  -t Cras tts  .e,ra- sae.-ttr l..e.d b. ar  sebaSEsa  a   .atS A.  A-M a I..ss  be-r estSat 'barC  Wle    be 9"Mot.t..tltly
ese-ares  latee  Mt g' t IM       .SM    ts   detSA61-  eat - pt. MM by dltleCom  WMeara  Sn otawlte1t (be dan-  .    dat. Mo. esrhlee   tla  S*
lB. ..teee  ta-a  -   II) 555 -     C-teset eaar at aba esbies    -Cyni s  (as              d eas- 5105         h smt  -rawse  5      Sth- II; fottrt.  10F.  of ame
ass.. enaWM    U..at,  tar -11Ls B... clat i..B. ee.  mer  'NS . B..a  atla   MI.. -od = dde b5   Ba ls.e  baaa  W *SBe., .aslsr.BS.t
OstttaaB... ". Cte vt.rt. sra da.. S.- aasr.ea -   eseats.ttsmsd  -ft.aat  sea  tat                     tadLat  -Lab    -sIV A-e -eslat,a .- CM. Mgel.a Be.
dft.. at  at   lt ,b.t t.dlt-s.  4L-.:. aBs atasIse          . a  SsiB   aa   at IfetS a, do-doi -  lb ee.ttsIJCT, of teat sd I. tolt ssste.. COttee  -M b
Leete   .re.t.  te..ItV- - atanSdtt.a a                Ts.e. A-a  anne.. o - s- -lMS  us  --a.rn.  .5. vase-    - W  ussata. at at. esee-L   S. Oenety, 
asee ttt.es.    n5.e.,                                      !ar1Mltestf!t.t!t   151s15555  tlattd 5.. -bet at rarS9l
IonateHU  tat..                                                                                 * 5.Iat                               -Lt  . PMSaBSLa fStEo.
fEEp"a.Pit?. 5.at .  wtl, Warts. nalst-C. 5   as    atswi.                              aesatbia I. PebSie "5  p.t9..  e.a  te od  aaS          oold Bss  ad
t.                        B~~~~~~~1Ae. loel. at 5wl dams,                                                            a, M kasaW  pmqmflttss. Caabt.be-et. p.eInS ptpattpai  CM.41.dl
s.d  Wo.saSea i          sre.I1. ks5sere  .5 .11  Cgaltal  M, -epaiseS Bean.                prl.H. C &I'L4 tCn .5 -adai-ftStns.
L,                                                             %a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ea    i  la sfea. seat satd BeIn   9
.1   t ti-2m  - ImaL. .1  ~    C.                               lt iEe-  lesti  Bstaflatb..5q1s*PW             gtsWast-r.
dLI--Cea     L   .etBaea   -~ esa eai ajise  CoMoa-eiB .                                                  - aa-abt  s.ne.       aed.A    -  Bate.4  .a0-          1- teata     S.
OEtsPsI itO' Sil. ad Sul) deft-                                                  tB. irBdtar aBasBatBs P.ee-.
~~~~~~ ~~~~coo-   p"attati  poef-caia  si  besa  -  totel                           adrrs7        srPr  sat1tae=edperiaa.p=da.eta
.MatatP WeSet  by~ "P  "  W -    d iat  -et.aUtt at 1.-.515t,                           -11Iees.  e-5sp              9Str. *t.d    -pe*          .s.-a.r--a
,saeo.  =rJests. jpret.s    fat s.tL`tSat issa   -Pia   et Cal-a.eaaSta
Ia-L. ...e   it .aPtssaee  at bscb4 taevae(e  aLah Caraa            rat,esse!saisvtt..a   tBsn.     aa.aaa.a   s.
.-I.. Bee  Besk. ad fart. BIts. M..ar.arr_.t,hBBSetee st ?J.                            fas.eSsaBatiSt  in   *Ba5ae5 In, staSa I                  Ve.  -
tea-e   BBs ate-Bel  ta  t.rlSt atsyto  ala. ata. stre  te .                           a' 5.55. -B1.    ta--) dO-tBat    - L-L,SaeS.
--M"te  4Matta  L. isCIaSt esdl.  1-Bsa  BasL ..  pWC tars
SI-555a P_ta.ssa   Sa-s   =r Ba Bth  aestd  a. M  BbS.  B.9
MMVBEas,ee             Puaa     Ws - - is asse sea- -  as-- rtts  -salt.tt                Iiraa,saa-Bai  s.-ta.-Oe    aB    -                            tr
rat.  -aesstt  ... a     Cr -rs. at.a-.tfa   aaBa                                 e.Bea      1es s  sb ttl-C, Bsae  at .spsa             - a  teopetsBea
rat.     L"a. '-'aaesst resetat Mt ta,`-Wtet (s"a                                   Pile., dss-t Paaatei  aees  ttaIa- assea as   514
Lateaat  pateeti     L-L   ~. teae.eatns. abe Stat tat  at  _t-es.                   PMat b2 selsetd tar daITaB-   saaetb.  F ptB-.P a-CA-eai   a.
eva  retC. ta   UMe. lbs .aas.et  asgaatta  eas ar- asas         d  CnBeett    se                       s  e CoMmsa.h    ar 45. -sA--ttssa   a-t 1-P-
.-Chia        eN  Tbe re -.et  - sB.aa.tale  UaB  ps.as.s Ba BBS. tsrB a,                              49ss   -  s al.el ea besi - eata bere MP t. at
Wee. 1  BB  atI    t  sta. b- attMiB     reet Be- tsasa  Baat.Sed.M-ta5h554 .b                                  eantI Ba.flp   S.-rPa. lPti  t.b pBa
P=aets        ea-    -0 Is aba aMad -te.    . reeas. C s.  aaelr                            .sdaeai.          - atBataBM. -   445. traise-d tspCtaB  t-CIt
snaeet ci. t     Ch. s .bat  *atas1--a.B 1ssln  be   sse*asf   belt.'sskpa   !B*B seats it --                        C     k e-ariaet       Fre, r
Se. easattt ae et rlaet -taea N          asted a.- BS-  -m-i toorl  tsaseed
a1'. W..eae         -I" Craal. r. a   ..s.aa    astaaa                                   .iras              daiataa-   attnsat    aaants
tr.-I.-  .- a            --perreesaee  .  .la..  biBasBar  BLI-".atirsel at              atteaCatd.e  teMSe
aatel sass; Bite. sIeW%  -  Bees date.                                        it's-sa BBare  rasa Bes....B  Lasptet eBBB tasa a. '.  St rBsd
rss.re   WC Seter  (arnat LOsidW  li-Ba 4Be.5l  .a*tal-ae. S BS-                       05511rl.
P- pseati       ese   npse-eei-i.aea.a   t-errssarCr tear aZ= _'                                            '                               "aesBs -tnsr   Ir.  -sL.*A.t
lgttalt.lt,etBtde.ea.sat.e Base0.                                                             :         C.ea~5  eta =.riate  a             -asa. bsaes ". s
C-se   teaea  (ena)-Stt-                           ratrt.s MMtt stt                        eBiA. sa4fta. d             --W
patrrSt.a   a  IB.a.teS   a  B9IB.ei                                                   esi    etser f.9Aea   t nadpaBt.)     BBra       eetsel   al
relaasI- at   a   yrea     reS-Be)e.e   ae      at.*tsea  .e Rahas  rett                                                          aI  seCStta  aeaSt-
FsssrS it,fa   aet     Sae  a    tassea.se        5-eaea   e.  et dt  a   es   et -AM-                                                    caTVbesa.as
pes  -atSa.  Beat.I BP-1-s. tie?.Pl                 W C data.-eBtat abetai_td (taeaee
Ueiagasaaq,(.ee  s- at C-         -at    WBS       ala "Lt me.ls                        i  W          .     e.e   ssat- .. - Itesel  a   rtaaa
* ste  -    t?dat.                                                                are         rpart            C.a patatea  ealea aLtsse   areee
waeereatse  ate~4  ,ee  ars, a  de n a           sL i M   -t5                   seaeea   Ste.  o            Mestn     Petaea. a  S   r     5  t
tatLKtIy P   eaI      a, ie. Gee(P   atre    ear --I"  ft S,  MC  -Ct                      -us.nsee CM    dtreena   seas   seae.   ats      asiet
B  at                                                                                 pstAA-Ldasadpeeats  e lsIua  aeaeB                     .  t  . eeidMe
r ta,flat-as  testar.aeSBeaar  - I                       Ctet.   atC-Lae                 es  dat4ita  r.st     eaeisest-I r
Wst.ra  -    as.ate`-  lk  sear  -dLB.at. -s  In-"  -d  N.C.                         F-M    lp-s -,-..M.n.I - aaues.tt  east. raseen  tetsdaes
vaas  rsrs"it.1 -ese. Be  sars  lea sas -t  -e L-.                                  I aasese aBsss Latf. eatte  beaR            ..  taaea. at.  eare
Elea  wia _t-L -CLL  e-L  o-                                                                  eres6-L1 ts.-ATta  esa  SU.sl  atsB   aa
Bed. et ssa  rrtss ea sp- (laaSBl,   ae   Se    Etait                                                                                     I=eeterei-lat  se   at.asrs  tttssl.frs
Va-  t i ateeteds  Fea tastL.  -da1-a    es. C-,Cs7 y  Cosdete. Wta u  a  eL                         eas U  tase  sbe  tare. sUe."t   BMtL ato Bees  at
sAMae    aad  tat. -stdi ase adSb-e at~ Wdtea-,  rer t  ta- 5.4. G.1two.   - aW RINI                                se Be etss %-   e IaatDtt.. Pnarateaa       a
Lata  a    S.eAmaBde) a--- Last. wpredeat       -La ar  aesta  te1te-lttr  a-s  eatS- as   C"ve PM tart -1.. fee SIC                                   .  ar
as -s     d NWe "Aeee   IL-dse -.e  seSatast BS-ft kF ,  set BMIM?               eat Bees teas-,t   " 
1161-0. 19ye -2 1-ft 4-  ~ ~  ~EecaaS.na (ee)-aaS   ae                                            et     rtttqtaa
Mr ear  ena a  teesa. ser  at a-ar--re  -  aeed Brs                              aiss  ree  e         eg.ast as ass.  a.  aI  tesia  l       t- a. atlC . 
soa_aas  artI ta tatleseae  a    asa t         e -LLW  .--  Pana- a.. .-  ees-            a HEata        -ata  atrl -eCtettan.-o,I-
eatntt  at 4           -.         -t-t-d Iats esaeae  eirnaS  s Va.AG t sabs.           B-14 inta   S  t-Cekatta  ttias.  td il-te
bA. aM-as tttiese  1 peuseSe   at -   siata  55C rart-da -f-t area-
at, t.assba  tsst-    BbB.    Bi T VLe at B1- tsa  ft-.   e..M -dntele-sseynee, ILM
ltetsseI-)5  ea te   far- t--) - resst eaa                  - Upe  IsBn             _t-1 Wnss Ba... tbs  aI Vst a ae)    etasd51aS
esara-P atBt e  tsp.C  sAd ase.t &Va.  last S.W detse  sesbas    s                      ees  ets   5sret   aea   5.tns        laatSryet
estloo tdt siB 1-d -         tea.t. bi-,bald i lt  tesat  Be.1 e-- I   I                                     C e.U4cI  -d
siBesses U Se e at natat reaat-, tnt tst at 2L tra- at esiasU at
raise Itseke. U  *t* BC  aes ebsad at s.nd prese..  Bbs.
IWd      B r.        y  Bt-i  cLea   Se.    -4.                                        Yaaee   seetraan   as  ..                 r-rtti-eleetrrj
da1te.                   wsttMetA,ottldsbis.t.  1~
Saa  ss  B.  ee  a..  fast aE-ed  - aseatdeab  b       bese   ,                   e"srd  sene  u.n   nm           B.al W....   Ie   I- battBeB
-   At teC    t at, tsb.  -Idr.   -  booma MCKt ....sar. at Btl sasietaedvrs-tees     ttas(sb.trrslaea. tea
atiebSBa b-ol dte  -w dat.- .     p".dp.p&                    p
Csh. ItS 5    =t         ea eabe WBOWa         -or. Mt tSe te.-
CMeaSitt eseep m                        Messna  se a tetA -eak Mvas  at poo a -d



- 26 -
Population      19911 (mid-1982. thousands) 
UW Per CaPita: USS 2351 (12)                                                                                             Page 4 of S
scaLGm - Ecnc~ mmramS
(uillim toS  t at1 Crth Et  I-1 at entant 1-14 ur 
current prices)  --tual---                                                         Proected
ladQator                    1924        1973  197   1980  1981  1932  191    1984 to)  19s3  1986  1937  1983  1989  1990
dross destic product U    51.134        12.2   5.5   4.4   2.8   5.2   7.2        5.1       4.6   5.1   5.0   5.9 55.          S.4
Agriculture              2.936       12.4   5.2  12.0   2.9  -.6.9   8.5        2.4      .3.   2.5   3.5   2.5   2.5        3.5       -
Industry                27.112       11.J  11.0  -0.4   0.9   7.1   7.0        6.1       7.2   7.0   6.7   6.6   6.4        5.3
Services                18.522       16.8   8.5   9.3   6.9   5.8   8.2        3.9       6.0   5.6   5.0   5.0   5.0        s.0
Consumption                31.247       9.5   8.7  14.1  11.7   3.6   5.2         4.4       5.2   7.1   6.8   7.3   7.4        7.6
Gross investmnt            19.347       16.4 -11.6   6.8   5.0   5.2   6.0        S.2       4.9   4.4   4.5   3.7   J.7        3.1
Exports of GEIFS           13.118       5.1   3.8  -12.2  -7.9   4.0   0.7        2.8       3.2   4.6   4.7   4.4   3.9        4.3
Imorts of GNFS             12.679       7.1 -11.6  16.6  11.5   1.2  -2.6         2.9      -0.9   5.6   5.1   5.3   5.5        5.6
Gross national savings hl   18.672      4.6  16.7  19.4   2.4   1.2   7.4         6.3       4.0  -0.2   6.1   4.6   4.2        3.9
PI!CFS f 1974 * 1o00                        197S  1979  )93p  13    1982   13   1
Export price index GI                  tl3.7  158.8  254.7 322.0  313.0 301.7 316.2  306.4  303.0  332.4  363.9  398.9  439.6
rort price Index  /                    148.6  162.0  182.6  197.8  199.3  201.1  201.7  209.8  226.7  243.8  261.9  281.4  302.7
Trems of trade index zl                 76.8  98.0  138.7  143.1  157.0  153.5  153.8  143.2  13S.7  136.3  138.9  141.8  145.2
GDP denator                             140.7 160.1  196.4 Z2.3  229.7 244.9  268.4  270.3  286.0  364.3  323.8  344.5  365.5
Excwnge rate (DA per US$)                4.8   3.9   3.8   4.3   4.6   4.8   5.0
Share of 6DP at Market PriCes (t)                       Average Ainal Increase XZ)
lat currant nricesltdl                    _        tat constant 1974 ariresl
170   1975      1980    1935       1990     1995    1970-75  1975-30   1938-Is   1985-90
Gross domestic product ci        100.0   100.0   100.6    166.6   100.0    108.0        6.3       8.1        5.6       5.9
Agriculture                    10.1     1.8      6.4       5.2     4.6      4.3      4.0        2.8       3.3       3.5
Industry                       38.5    51.0    S7.1      57.4    59.2      59.8      8.1       8.9        6.3       6.2
Services                       44.5    32.4    31.8      32.5    31.2       30.9     3.4        8.7       5.1       5.0
Consumption                       70.7    61.8    58.2      68.7   7n.6       77.4      8.8       9.9        7.1       7.1
Gross investmnt                   36.4   56.0    39.9       40.2    36.6      33.9    19.7        6.7        3.4       3.9
Exports GNFS                      22.0    34.2    34.6      20.8    19.4       17.8     1.8        1.9       1.8       4.4
Imports 61FS                      29.1    46.0    32.6      29.7    28.9      29.1    15.7        4.3        3.2       5.3
Gross natienal savinms h/         36.5    34.6    23.6      29.6    25.7      21.3    17.4        16.2       4.9       3.7
As S of GOP
1970                1975                1980            1982
Current revenues                                         26.8                44.5                39.6           36.1
Current expenditures                                     15.8                Z1.6                17.3           18.6
Surplus Ct) or deficit (-)                               11.0                22.9                22.3           17.5
Capital expenditure                                      20.6                30.0                27.1           26.9
Foreign financing
1970-75              1975-80             1930-35        1981-90
OTHER TNOIrATORS
GIP growth rate (C)                                       5.5                 6.9                 s.a             6.0
GOP Per capita growth rate (C)                            3.3                 3.5                 3.3             2.5
Energy consLution growth rate (XI                        1.S                 8.5                 9.5             11.7
ia0f 6.2                                                                     5.0                 7.3             fi.7
Marginal savings rate                                    48.8                28.5                34.5            25.2
rmport elasticity                                         2.9                0.5                 0.6              0.9
a. At aicet prices. CoWanents are expressed at factor cost and do not add up due to exclusion of Indirect taxes.
hi Including the ters of trade effects.
G/ On goods and non factor services during historical years; on goods only during projected years.
j/ Projected years at constant prices.
ei Estinte
2098
April 12. 1985
EWEN CPIUB



- 27                                                                    31L1
Pag  or 6
Population    : 1991 (mId-19U. tthosands)
P pwr Capita: US$2351 (13821
AaCMA -    z :   f             x        CaapA   p  no
U$ IISSt crrnt prices)
indicator                                              ---Actual          - --                                -Pree ----
1Un    1980       1311    1982      1985     1984 te()      198     198      1987     13"      1989     190
B,A.A9r F PRYE
Fxports of goads and services     10.109   14.500   15.067   14.385   13.516  14.052          14.029  14.S84   16.961   19.322   21.936   25.185
Of which: Nerchandise f.o.b.  9.413   13.852   14.112   13.S51    12.742   12.622          12.401  12.979   14.677   16.950   19.286  22.118
Imports of goods and services     12.e61   14.552   15.291   14.810  I3 230   14.139          14.34S  16.153   18.044   20.347   22.901   26.059
Of setch:  ferchandise f.o.b.  7.J05    9.596   1*.881   9.889    9.596    9.480            9.532  10.869   12.352   14.052   16.08   18.365
not tranfers                         320      381      309      312      229        9             10      11       11       12       13       14
Current acceunt balence           -1.632      249       aS     -1813    -5        -n            -397  -1.Z99  -1.071   -1.013   -1.032      -919
Private direct investment             10      315       -1     -d5       -14      270            2       290     z3oo      310      220      330
PELT loans (not)                   2.719      715      184     -55    -157       -473             51   1.204    1.103    1.0U    1.152    1.123
Official                          462      376      15  -   156        S8      146           -120    -109     -101      -95     -142    -1SS
Private                        2.257       329      24      -811    -20S    -619              191   1.313   1254    1.183    1.294    1.281
Other capital                      -612        62    -149      -168    -13S         0              0       0        0        0        0        a
Change in reserves                 -415  -1.341       -119    1.071      421      280            -34    -28S     -332    -385      -445     -514
Internatinal reserves              2.659    3.773    3.695    2.422    1.800    1.6e0          1.634   1.920    2.252    2.637    3.077    3.51
esre vas as onths imports           2.6      3.1      2.9      2.5      1.5      1.4            1.4     1.4      I.s      1.6      1.6      1.7
EXTERNAt CAPITAL A DEBT
Gross disbursmnts                  4.276    3.168    2.692    2.238    3.342    3.419
Official grants                    -        -        -        -        -        -
Cmmcesslonal loans                135       67      31        -        20       15
DeC                             22       6        26       -         4        s
OPEC                            -        -        -        -        -        _
IDA                             -       -         -        -        -        -
Other                          113       61       S        -        16       10
smm-concessiaal loans           4.142    3.101    2.661    2.239    3.321    3.4dS
Official export credits        382      457      298      370      303      39
mm                              47      39       42       29        65     161
Other multilateral              16       11       -        -        24       20
Privat                      3.637    2.594    2.521    1.&"    2.801   2.82.
gtatama Debt
Debt o    dstanine and dIsburse  16.127   16.334   1.3N    13S."7   1.5142   12.6H
Official                     2.105    2.541    2.583    2.573    2.733    2.U50
Private                     13.Y92   13.7M3   12.8e6   11.3Z4   10.409    9.790
Undisbursed debt               10.578    9.571    7.299    5.373    5.671    7.344
Debt service
Total serwIce Dsajets          2.792    3.S49    3.818    4.26;    4.763    5.065
Interest                     1.224    1.396    1.303    1.358    1.234    1.172
Pajnts as S exports              26.2    2S.7    24.5    28.6 1  33.8    36.0
Average interest rate on new loans 12) 9.8       8.3      5.4      8.9      9.9     9.8
Official                             7.8      5.1      7.5      9.3      7.5       -
PrIvate                             10.2      5.4      8.5      8.7     10.0       -
Average aturity of new loans (years)  10.4    10.4        7.7      e 0      6.7      5.2
Official                            13.7    14.2       8.0      9.5    15.5        -
Private                             9.8       8.7     7.6      7.6      6.5        -
As 2 of Debt Outstxndinr at End of  911031
futurity structure oF debt outstandin  '
Principal due within 5 yars                                    75.
Principal due within 10 Years                                  97.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                 10.1
1/   Including Undisbursed.
(e)  Estiate.
2094B (pp. 5-)
Revised April 12.1985
DNA COIB



- 28 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK PROJECTS IN ALGERIA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                          Amount in US$ million
Credit                                                           (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower                        Purpose      Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
Eighteen loans fully disbursed                                  410.46
1545 AL     1978    The Democratic and Popular  Sewerage         82.00         54.69
Republic of Algeria
1595 AL     1978    The Democratic and Popular  Education        21.50         17.18
Republic of Algeria
1683 AL     1979    The Democratic and Popular  Highways        126.00         13.03
Republic of Algeria
S-17 AL     1980    The Democratic and Popular  Water Supply    5.00            1.56
Republic of Algeria          Engineering
1802 AL     1980    The Democratic and Popular  Bas Cheliff       8.00          6.55
Republic of Algeria          Irrigation
1803 AL     1980    The Democratic and Popular  Education         3.80          1.92
Republic of Algeria
1892 AL     1980    The Democratic and Popular  Highways        110.00        82.88
Republic of Algeria
2370 AL     1984    The Democratic and Popular  Telecom         128.00        120.28
Republic of Algeria
2461 AL     1985    The Democratic and Popular  Water Supply  290.00          254.45
Republic of Algeria
TOTAL                                              1,184.76
of which has been repaid                      228.10
Total now outstanding                                956.66
Amount sold                         34.81
of which has been repaid      34.81             0
Total now held by Bank                               956.66
Total undisbursed                                                 552.54
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (Algeria is not a member of IFC)
ID.479B(p.l)



- 29 -
ANINEX III
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPIIENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section L Timetable of Key Events
- Project Identification                         July 1982
- Time taken by Borrower to prepare project    2 years
- Agency responsible for project preparation   Ministry of Hydraulics,
Environment and Forestry
- First Bank mission to review project           1983
- Date of departure of appraisal mission         September 1984
- Date of completion of negotiations             April 26, 1985
- Planned date of effectiveness                  October 1985
Section Il: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section E:L Special Conditions
Effectiveness:
Si) Execution of the Reimbursement Agreements between the Government
and EPEOR and EPECO (para. 60);
(ii)  Approval by the Governmernt of new tariff structure (para. 70);
Other conditions:
(i)  MHEF will retain qualified consultants in accordance with the Bank
Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to (a) assist it in
supervising construction components (para. 55); (b) to carry out
feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage in urban areas
where services are presently deficient (para. 55); (c) to make
annual inspections of the Hamnmam Grouz Dam and related structures,
as well as carrying out any necessary remedial actions suggested by
the consultants (para. 56); and (d) to carry out a study of the
organization, management and finance of the regional water
companies (para. 53);
(ii) MHEF will submit a detailed description and schedule of the staff
training program for Bank review and comments and will subsequently
hire instructors and consultants acceptable to the Bank to execute
the program (para. 54);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) EPEOR and EPECO will charge tariffs to achieve a ratio of net cash
generation to their capital investments of not less than 15 percent
(para. 71);
(iv) EPEOR and EPECO will review each year with the Government and the
Bank their financial forecast for the next three years, indicating
the estimated net internal cash generation ratios in these years
(para. 71); and
(v) MEEF, EPEOR and EPECO will engage independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank to audit the project accounts and submit certified
copies of the accounts as well as the auditors' reports to the
Bank, not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year
(paras. 72 and 73).



lIED 1IUJ7
ALGERIA                                             M E D I T E R R A N E A N  SEA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT.                                              ..  .-.*  .....EA    SL.               ..-
.        {PE1 walU IWg _ (f; _ SIUI:DA _{9, t r-iV
:;WATER UTILITIES SERVICE AREAS                                                                               
EPEL waler Uiltihlu Seric. Caepcwio
-Wolof Witdl" kneek 36Ma...                                                                          IJE
.          . * NoIioe.aICop.a                        -                       ,* C*t    '.BA                                               EPEA        ) -
w---ww4es              .,,I EPEMO   EL ASNAM                                                                              UELM
~~z~ Ft~rdhbries  .  W 9    EIAm   2    EPEM    BOUIRA>             ~~~SETIF       -JEfiECo                      /
s *- _ ylaslnum _-w> _>g/ MEDEA >__ Jw \ S ~~~~~~~~EPES                                                4-_ O &WAV. 0              >
.RAt-l'   ;M<tOSTAGANEMv                                                                                C;/ . ,UM EL IGUA  I
2 < ^;) v 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A T N A f i
MASCARA
EP.OR
e,nemccn>  SIDI                                                                                                           TEBESSA
. /   TIEMCEN   7 ASSES                                                                                                  EPE,A
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ,,                                                 K R_ A(\       ,___,
0
U  l               S~~~~ A I D A             >t                        w                                                                   _ 
EPET                                   LAGHOUAT                                _
.   >vW                        0              i ,                                           (          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALGERIA    
. .       /                           .                                                        /       OUARIL                         A O M\P
''   .%  '- '"rs
*                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IF
BECHAR                                                                                                            W. ~            *U



ALOINIA                                                               ,  -                                                                                              r*a
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORAN SUBPROJECT
__                                                                                        *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I-         --------
Bnli Wsi water upov Main,
*  Water r,amrnl hant                                                                                                                                              - == - 
,  _   --   Riven  111hmnz ,- a = 2 2 2 h = 2 2 2 D 2 2 2 2 _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                        -      -      -      -=  --    - 
StOrye"                                                                            ______           _om  -  - ----      -----===   _ -_=--__--__-
- *-1---S-   ff------.----                                -
IC~~~~~~  Brukwitgr 14.14 RNar/Oin                                         -~~---     ---     ---              --         --         --         --         --    
mviii                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----           
_r--;   -    - -             ----             ----            
IC d~~~~~~~~~~
MaOl lld5j                                                                                                                                                                U
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- \                                                                              5  \/'
-Ilese de                                                                          od t_     *rJie.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U.                                                                                             r;     < 2   ALGERIA')
X    J                                     a                   C        X               - -                 C-~~~~         ~     ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3'   3 \O 
_   . .
r



ALGERIA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                      X
CONSTANTINE SUBPROJECT
WSISI t npplV MiniW
t- Ser Maine.                                                Ot.UIANlCW !                               J
X    iU  WITO T,Eatsmi 4nn l., 
o       wei,
C    S    itrhtiatn ftuiairr;                                                                          to  N
-   Imtngorn Maine
S#anttst Treatment Plan_
N rm,zino sttion                                                               OI        tJ0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~w fli                                                                                  A/rea1                       )
International rrun dO 
-    Rivr,d                                                                        } j    tl ttl/    {l           \
'\e~~~~~~~~~~ -SP ln.naua \Ba j                                                                                                           A mul 
AU.
Fe N"n                                                           re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 
;  Ar^4sN                                                                                     _ _       .                           5~~~~~~~~~~~N 
5'"@"tV   2---   1  ,,,owitt,+  ,  ,,,                   E =           \----a-  ..
--r  
FEBRUARY tigS






