                                            Documentof
                                         TheWorldBank

                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                                          ReportNo. T7616-BU




                                      TECHNICAL ANNEX


                                   FORA PROPOSEDGRANT


               OF SDR 22.2 MILLION(US$33 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                 TO


                                    REPUBLIC OFBURUNDI


                                     FORAN EMERGENCY


   DEMOBILIZATION, REINSERTIONAND REINTEGRATIONPROGRAM




                                         February24,2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                        2


                                    CURRENCYEQUIVALENT
                            (exchange rate effective as o f January 31,2004)

                         Currency Unit            =       Burundian Franc (FBU)
                         US$l                     -
                                                  -       1,100

                                  GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1- December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

           AIDS           Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
           AMIB           African Mission inBurundi
           APPM           ArmedPoliticalParty andMovement
           CNDD           Conseil National pour la Ddfense de la De'mocratie, (National Council for the
                          Defense o fDemocracy)
           CNRS           Commission Nationale pour la Rdinsertion des Sinistrds, (National
                          Commission for the Rehabilitation o f War-Affected Persons)
           DRRP           Demobilization, ReinsertionandReintegration Program
           ES             Executive Secretariat o f the NCDRR
           FAB            Forces Arme'es Burundaises, (ArmedForces o f Burundi)
           FDD            Forcespour la Ddfense de la De'mocratie, (Force for the Defense o f
                          Democracy)
           FNL            Forces Nationalespour la Libe'ration, (National LiberationForce)
           FTA            Forces Technical Agreement
           GDP            Gross Domestic Product
           HIV            HumanImmuneDeficiency Virus
           IDA            InternationalDevelopment Association
           JCC            Joint Cease-fire Commission
           JLT            Joint LiaisonTeam o fthe JCC
           JOC            Joint Operations Center
           JOP            Joint Operations Plan
           MDRP           Multi-Country Demobilization andReintegration Program
           MDTF           Multi-Donor Trust Fundo f the MDRP
           MIS            Management InformationSystem
           MONUC          Mission de 1'Organisation des Nations Unies au Congo, (United Nations
                          Organization Missionto Congo)
           NCB            National Competitive Bidding
           NDF            NationalDefense Force
           NCDRR          National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration
           TSS            Transitional Support Strategy
           TWG            Technical Working Group
           UN             UnitedNations
           UNDP           UnitedNations Development Programme
           UNICEF         UnitedNations Children's Fund
           UNOB           UnitedNations Office for Burundi
           VCT            Voluntary Counseling and Testing


               Vice President                      Callisto E.Madavo
               Country Director                    Emmanuel Mbi
               Sector Manager              :       JosephBaah-Dwomoh
               Task Team Leader                    Ingo Wiederhofer

                                                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
        Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                                                                                          2


                                                                              Contents
         1. Background and Strategy                 .........................................................................................................                    4
            1.1CIRCUMSTANCESOF THECONFLICT
            1.2 ECONOMICAND SOCIAL IMPACT.................................................................                                           ..........................  6
            1.3 GOVERNMENT       RESPONSE STRATEGY.
                                                  AND
            1.4 INTERNATIONAL       RESPONSE         ....................................................................


            2.2 POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY ..................................................................................
            2.3 RATIONALEFORIDA INVOLVEMENT                                                                                  ...................
            2.4 LESSONS PREVIOUSIDA ASSIS
                         FROM




                                                                                                                              ......................
                                        ..............................................................................................................................          23




         4. Studies and Technical Assistance                        ...........................................................................................                30
            4.1 STUDIES ..................            ................................................................................................................. 30
            4.2 TECHNICALASSISTA
         5. Institutional Arrang
            5.1 INSTITUTIONAL      STRUCTURE................................................................................................................                    3 1
               5.1.I Central level.............:.
               5.1.2 Provincial level.........
               5.1.3 Commune level..........                                                                                  .................
               5.1.4 Stafjng, institutional
               5.I.5Program Coordination Mechanisms...........................................................................................                                  34
            5.2 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTAND AUDITING .........

                                                                                                                             ........................




               53.3 Procirrement methods...                                                                                                          ........................   .42


            5.5 PROGRAMSUSTAINABILITY                  .......................

            6.1 BENEFITS  .............................................................................................................................................          48
            6.2 RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES                         .................................................................................................... 48
            6.3 ENVIRONMENTAL          AND SOCIAL ASPECTS                                                               .......                                                  50
         7.     Financial and EconomicJustification                               ...............................................................................                51
         8. Action Plan   ...............................................................................................................................                        53
         9.     Attachments      .........................................................................................................................                       55

Thisdocument has a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
,theperformance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
[withoutWorld Bank authorization.                                                                                                                                                      I

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and ReintegrationProgram - TechnicalAnnex    3



Map- IBRDNo. 30118

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex             4



                                              Burundi
                Demobilization,Reinsertionand ReintegrationProgram


    1. Backgroundand Strategy


    1.ICircumstances of the Conflict

1.      Burundi is emerging from a vicious cycle o f recurrent politico-ethnic conflicts
between parties largely based on its two main ethnic groups, the Hutuand the Tutsi. The
most recent period o f violent conflict broke out in 1993 following the assassination o f the
democratically elected President Ndadaye, and has resulted in the deaths o f an estimated
300,000 people. The duration and increasing social and economic costs o f this conflict
prompted the international community to support a negotiation process from 1998
onwards.

2.      Negotiations in Arusha, Tanzania, facilitated by late President Julius Nyerere o f
Tanzania and former president Nelson Mandela o f South Africa, culminated in the
conclusion o f a the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement, on August 28, 2000.
Nineteen Burundian parties signed this agreement, which seeks to assess the origins o f
the conflict as well as to propose constitutional and institutional reforms to foster national
reconciliation, and to improve the judicial system, public administration, and social
service delivery, with a view to preventing future conflict. The Accord envisaged a 36-
month transition period during which a transitional government would undertake several
security and political stabilization activities and prepare for national elections. A power-
sharing transitional government was inaugurated on November 1, 2001, As stipulated in
the Agreement, then President Pierre Buyoya, who had led the Government for the first
18-months o f the transition, handed over power to his vice-president, Domitien
Ndayizeye, on April 30,2003.

3.      The current conflict. Despite the 2000 Arusha Peace Accord, large-scale violence
prevented the stabilization o f the political and security situation in the country. Two
major armed political parties and movements (APPMs), the Conseil National Pour la
De'fense de la De'mocratie -Forces Pour la De'fense de la De'mocratie (CNDD-FDD)and
the Forces Nationales Pour la Libe'ration - PALIPEHUTU (FNL-PALIPEHUTU) have
refused to participate in the Arusha process and continued their armed struggle against
the Government. Both groups fragmented into sub-factions, further complicating peace
negotiations.

4.      With facilitation assistance from the African Union, the governments o fTanzania,
South Africa and Uganda, and the United Nations (UN), the Government continued to
pursue cease-fire negotiations with these parties. This strategy beganto bear fruit with the
signing o f cease-fire agreements between the Government andtwo o f the smaller factions
- the    CNDD-FDD faction led Jean Bosco Ndayikengurukiye and the FNL-
PALIPEHUTU faction o f Alain Mugabarabona - inOctober 2002. This was followed by

Burundi Demobilization. Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex              5


the signing o f a cease-fire agreement with the larger CNDD-FDD faction o f Pierre
Nkurunziza inDecember 2002.

5.      However, in the absence o f a clear implementation framework and in an
environment marked by mutual distrust, the implementation o f the agreements remained
uneven. Insecurity persisted in many parts o f the country until the signing o f a
comprehensive cease-fire agreement between Government and the CNDD-FDD (Pierre
Nkurunziza) in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, on November 16, 2003. The subsequent
integration o f the leadership o f this group into the Government and other state institutions
has significantly improvedprospects for the full implementationo f the agreements signed
to date.

6.      InMay 2003, at the request o f Government and several intemationalpartners, the
African Mission in Burundi (AMIB) launched a pilot "cantonment"                   exercise for
combatants o f the CNDD-FDD (Ndayikengurukiye) and the FNL-PALIPEHUTU
(Mugabarabona), who had signaled a willingness to disarm. In the absence o f agreed
criteria and procedures for combatant status, a military integration policy or a structured
demobilization process, this exercise resulted in the costly and logistically challenging
long-term encampment o f an estimated 180 persons claiming combatant status. This
initiative highlighted the risks and costs o f initiating cantonment without having exit
strategies inplace, especially ina hostile security environment.

7.      The continued refusal o f the FNL-PALIPEHUTUfaction o f Agathon Rwasa to
sign a cease-fire remains an obstacle to comprehensive peace in Burundi. Intensive
diplomatic efforts to secure a cease-fire with the FNL-PALIPEHUTU(Rwasa) and to
facilitate its participation in the transitional institutions o f Burundi are ongoing with the
support o f intemational partners. A first meeting between this group and President
Domitien Ndayizeye took place in the Netherlands in January 2004, and has improved
prospects for its incorporation into the peace process.

8.      The Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Accord of August 28, 2000 and the
comprehensive cease-fire agreement of November 16, 2003 provide the overall policy
framework for all subsequent negotiations and agreements in Burundi. The Accord
details the responsibilities and attributes o f administrative institutions, including the role
o f the army and national police force. The integration o f combatants o f all armed parties
into new security and defense forces is a key provision o f the Arusha Accord. On
November 2, 2003, the Government and the CNDD-FDD (Nkurunziza) signed a Forces
Technical Agreement (FTA) outlining the process and scope o f the integration o f CNDD-
FDD (Nkurunziza) forces and the FAB into the new National Defense Force(NDF). The
Arusha Accord also makes reference to the need for a demobilization and reintegration
process to address the needs o f those former combatants who do not remain with the new
defense and security forces.'




IAmsha PeaceAccord, Protocol 111,chapter 11, article 21.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex                6


     1.2 Economicand Social Impact

9.       Inlight of persistent conflict, the economic situation has been marked by falling
output and incomes (GDP declined by nearly 20% in real terms over the period 1993-
2002); high levels o f inflation; diminished public revenues; the withdrawal o f
international financial assistance (international aid transfers fell from an annual average
of nearly US$300 million to less than an annual average o f US$lOO million between
1992 and 2002); lower investment (the investment rate fell from an annual average o f
more than 15% to 9% between 1992 and 2002); and the accumulation o f domestic and
extemal deficits andextemal payment arrears (which stood at US$148.5 million in2002).
Defense expenditure increased from 3.6% of GDP to 8% from 1992 to 2001.
Furthermore, the conflict has had a significant impact on the national budget. Defense
expenditures rose from approximately 10.7 percent o f total central government
expenditures in 1992 to about 27.1 percent in 2001, while education and health sectors
receivedonly 15 percent and two percent respectivelyin2001.

10.      On the social front, the situation i s marked by rising poverty: the proportion o f
people living below the poverty line rose from 35% in 1992 to more than 60% in 2002.
The lives o f most Burundianshave been severely disrupted. According to the UNOffice
for the Coordination o f Humanitarian Affairs, there are currently about 300,000
Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Burundi and around 600,000 Burundian refugees
inneighboringcountries (mainly inTanzania). Almost 15% of Burundi's populationhas
thus been displaced by conflict. Average life expectancy, which was more than 47 years
in 1990, decreased to 42 years in2001. The quality and the accessibility o fbasic social
services have also deteriorated. The precarious social situation has been further
aggravated by the high prevalence o f HIV/AIDS and the destruction and lack o f
maintenance of social facilities.

11.      Primary sector activities have been disrupted by widespreadinsecurity, especially
inthe rural areas o fthe country. Frequent ambushes against civilians and clashes between
parties to the conflict have been a deterrent to farming and marketing activities. The
livestock sector in general has perhaps suffered the most, as herds became primary
targets. A recent survey o f the Food and Agricultural Organization estimated that, by
September 2003, about 80% o f the bovine and 50% o f small ruminant herds o f the
Easternprovince o f Ruhigi (a Phase IV security province since 1999) hadbeen looted. To
avoid rustlers, herders typically regroup their herds around military outposts in or around
urban centers, where grazing opportunities are usually limited. As a result of these
difficulties, herders are forced to increase culling rate, selling their cattle prematurely at
sub-optimal prices, thereby further depleting the livestock population. Crop and animal
husbandry has also suffered from the fact that agricultural extension services virtually
came to a halt.


     1.3 Government Response and Strategy

12.      Since its establishment following the conclusion o f the Arusha Accord, the
Government has been pursuing a dual strategy o f military pressure and negotiation to
encourage the CNDD-FDD and the FNL-PALIPEHUTU to enter the peace process. To

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                  7



date, three o f the four APPMs havejoined the peace process, indeed been integrated into
Government and state institutions. With the recent integration o f the CNDD-FDD
(Nkurunziza),     a process o f meaningful defense and security sector reform and
demobilization can begin.

13.     Following the signing o f the cease-fire agreements in October and December
2002, the Government began to prepare a national Demobilization, Reinsertion and
Reintegration Program (DRRP) inJanuary 2003. The preparation o f the national program
built on knowledge and experience gained with the support o f a World Bank Post-
Conflict Fund grant, which financed the preparation o f eight background studies for
social and economic reintegration, training activities, confidence-building measures and
leaming trips for Government personnel from March 2000 onwards.2 The Government
formally established a National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and
Reintegration(NCDRR) on August 28,2003 to provide policy guidance to the DRRP.An
Executive Secretariat (ESNCDRR) o f the NCDRR has been put in place to finalize
preparation and lead implementation o f the national program, as well as to coordinate the
contributions o f international partners.

14.     Guidingprinciples. The Government has adopted the following guidingprinciples
for the DRRP:

        (9       demobilization would be implemented gradually to facilitate consolidation
                 o fthe peace process;

        (ii) theDRRPwouldformanintegralpartofadefense andsecuritysector
                 reform program that would begin with the integration o f the FAE3 and
                 different armed movements to form the NDF and a new national police
                 force;

        (iii) intheinterestofnationalreconciliation,theProgramwouldtargetallex-
                 combatants irrespective o f previous politico-military affiliation;

        (iv)     the DRRP would allow ex-combatants to choose their community o f
                 settlement and their own path to social and economic reintegration;

        (VI      reintegration assistance would be coordinated closely with broader
                 rehabilitation and reconstructionactivities for war-affected populations;

        (vi>     all demobilization and targeted reintegration assistance to ex-combatants
                 would be provided through the DRRP;

        (vii)    pension and social security issues for ex-combatants would be addressed
                 outside the DRRP, inaccordance with the ex-combatants' respective terms
                 and conditions o f service;

        (viii) the program would respect the partial amnesty specified in article 26, 1.1
                 o f the Arusha Accord, which stipulates that "Amnesty is accorded to all
                 combatants o f armed political parties and movements for crimes


 Burundian officials visited Chad, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Northern Ireland, Rwanda, Sierra
Leone, and South Africa under this Program.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex              8


                 committed due to their participation in conflict. However, amnesty is not
                 extended for acts o f genocide, crimes against humanity nor for
                participation incoups d'ktats";

         (ix)    as stipulated in the comprehensive cease-fire agreement o f November
                2003, the program would respect the temporary immunityextended to the
                 leaders and combatants o fthe CNDD-FDD andthe FAB ;and

         (x)    the program would respect relevant human rights conventions, especially
                those relatedto the rights o f the person.

15.      Target groups. The Government envisages the demobilization andreintegration o f
a total o f 55,000 combatants in two stages. Duringthe first stage, approximately 14,000
combatants o f the FAB and o f APPMs who would not join the National Defense Forces
(NDF) or the police force would be demobilized. Inaddition, the Program would help to
reinsert an estimated 20,000 Guardiens de la Paix, a community-level militia group
established by the Government as an auxiliary force, and up to 10,000 Combattants
Militants o f the APPMs at this time. During the second stage o f the Program, 41,000
soldiers o f the NDF would be demobilized as part o f the process o f defense and security
sector reform. Given the difficulty o f estimating the number o f APPM combatants,
Government would maintain sufficient resources in reserve and available for rapid
disbursement as required by Program implementation progress. Overall Program cost
estimates would be adjusted inline with overall beneficiary numbers.

16.      Timing. The pace and scale o f the demobilization process would largely be
contingent on the rate o f the military integration process and the subsequent defense and
security sector reform process. It i s estimated that the downsizing and demobilization
process for the NDF would be completed after four years. The DRRPwould continue for
a fifth year to complete the provision o f reinsertion and reintegration assistance to ex-
combatants.

17.      The military integration o f APPMs and the FAB into the NDF will be a sensitive
process. The initial integration will be governed by the Forces Technical Agreement
(FTA), and will be observed by AMIB. However, several important details remain to be
clarified - inthe spirit o f the FTA -by the Integrated Chiefs o f Staff o f the NDF and the
Joint Ceasefire Commission (JCC). This reform should lead to increased Government
transparency in the defense and security sector, an improved balance o f the various
ethnic, social and regional groups inthe forces at all levels, clarity regarding the division
o f labor betweenthe national police and the NDF, and ultimately a net reduction in the
size o f the NDF. Government has requested the assistance o f the international community
to support the defense and security sector reform process.

18.      With a view toward national reconciliation, the Government is also preparing for
the return and resettlement o f internally displaced persons (IDPs) and o f refugees from
Tanzania. The Government has established a Commission Nationale pour la
Re`habilitation des Sinistre`s to support their repatriation andreintegration. A special inter-
agency unit for the coordination o f donor assistance for reintegration processes has been
established by the UnitedNations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex            9



HighCommissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the World Bank. The NCDRR would
closely coordinate its reintegration assistance with the CNRS and this inter-agency unit to
ensure overall coherence of assistance to war-affected populations.


    1.4 International Response

19.     Political. The intemational community is providing considerable support to the
peace process in Burundi. At the political level, the governments o f South Africa,
Tanzania, Gabon and Uganda have played a critical mediation role in the negotiations
between the Government and the different parties before and after the Arusha Accord o f
2000. The United Nations Office in Burundi (UNOB) has also helped to facilitate these
negotiations, and presides over the ImplementationMonitoring Committee (IMC) and the
Joint Ceasefire Commission (JCC), two central bodies in the oversight o f the
implementation o f the Arusha Accord. Other initiatives supported by the intemational
community included informal meetings between members o f opposing parties outside
Burundi,including meetings with memberso fthe FNL-PALIPEHUTU(Rwasa) inCaux,
Switzerland. Senior officers o f the FAB and APPMs participated in joint leadership
training sessions in Nairobi in November 2003. The latter event was financed by the
European Commission and the Government of the United Kingdom and was a direct
spin-off o f the Burundi Leadership Training Program, which is supported by the World
Bank's Post-Conflict Fund(PCF).

20.     Security. At the request o f the Government o f Burundi, the Government of South
Africa provided security protection services for a number o f political leaders o f former
opposition groups who returned to Burundi in 2001 after the signing o f the Arusha
Accord. This mission has subsequently been integrated into the first peacekeeping
mission o f the African Union - AMIB. AMIB consists o f approximately 2,650 soldiers
from Ethiopia, Mozambique and South Africa, as well as military observers from an
additional 15 African countries. AMIB's mandate includes the provision o f support to the
military integration and disarmament processes.

21.     Humanitarian. With a large number o f IDPs in Burundi, humanitarian assistance
needs have remained substantial. A number o f relief agencies are supporting the
government and the people o f Burundi through humanitarian assistance and inpreparing
for early reconstruction. The UN Consolidated Appeal (CAP) launched in November
2003 requests intemational assistance in the amount of US$71.5 million to address the
humanitarianneeds o f Burundians in2004.

22.     Development. Substantial amounts o f development assistance were pledged by
donors after the conclusion o f the Arusha Accord. However, a significant proportion o f
this assistance has not been disbursed due to persistent insecurity. Several partners,
including the European Commission, the UNDP, and the World Bank, have continued to
provide significant assistance to Burundi. The Government o f Belgium and the UNDP
hosted a Partners Forum for Burundi in January 2004. Donors pledged US$1.032 billion
insupport ofBurundiat thismeeting.

Burundi Demobilization. Reinsertion and Reintewation Program-TechnicalAnnex             10



23.     Demobilization and Reintegration. The international community i s             also
supportive o f efforts towards the demobilization and reintegration o f ex-combatants in
Burundi. Partners o f the Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
(MDRP) for the greater Great Lakes region share the view that the DRRP would be an
essential component o f the broader peace-building and rehabilitation process inBurundi.
Representatives o f several MDRP donors and partners have actively participated in some
o f the preparation missions for this Project. AMIB, UNOB and UNICEF have been
closely involved inthe planning for disarmament and demobilization activities inthe first
year o f the DRRP.



    2 IDA Response and Strategy


    2.1 Multi-Country Program for Demobilization and Reintegration

24.     The MDRP is a partnership o f nine regional governments and 42 international
partners that serves as a coordination and financing platform for demobilization and
reintegration efforts in the greater Great Lakes region. Building on a variety o f country-
level initiatives, and inconsultation with governments inthe region as well as donors and
UN partners, the Bank elaborated a greater Great Lakes regional strategy for
demobilization and reintegration for the MDRP. These were endorsed by the Bank's
Board inApril 2002. 1.            Within the framework o f the MDRP, the Government o f
Burundihas asked the World Bank to provide financial assistance and coordinate extemal
partner support for the DRRP.To this end, the World Bank initiated a project preparation
process in February 2003, and established a Disarmament, Demobilization and
Reintegration Coordination Committee (the DDR-CC) consisting o f interested MDRP
partners present in Bujumbura, as well as a Technical Working Group (TWG) to
elaborate a Joint Operations Plan for disarmament and demobilization activities.

25.     The regional approach has several advantages in the Great Lakes region: the
ability to address external regional factors associated with some country programs;
enhanced transparency o f related country programs, and the facilitation o f knowledge-
sharing and training across national programs. The MDRP framework enhances
coordination and harmonization o f the activities o f various donors and UN agencies.
MDRP Joint Supervision Missions, in which a number of MDRP partners including
bilateral donors and UN agencies participate, have visited Burundi twice since the
initiation o f the MDRP. In both instances, the planning status and design o f the DRRP
were discussed intensively between the mission and various stakeholders in Burundi.
These discussions made significant contributions to the design o fthe DRRP.

26.     National demobilization and reintegration programs are already under
implementationinAngola and Rwanda, and further programs are under preparationinthe
Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic o f the Congo and the Republic o f
Congo. The personnel o f the ES/NCDRR have benefited from two study trips to Rwanda
to learn from the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Program. They have also
benefitedfrom technical exchanges between managers and technical experts o f national

Burundi Demobilization. Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex          11



programs supported by the MDRP, including a workshop on management information
systems and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) in demobilization and reintegration
programs held in Rwanda in August 2003 and a trip to observe ongoing ex-combatant
reintegration activities in Sierra Leone inFebruary 2004.

27.     The MDRP also serves as a framework for a regional multi-donor trust fund
(MDTF) for demobilization and reintegration activities inthe greater Great Lakes region.
The MDTF has become the vehicle to mobilize and channel key donor financing; reduce
transaction costs for client governments, donors and the Bank; and enable Governments
to complement IDA financing with other grant resources. To date, MDRP donor partners
have committed US$205 millionto the MDTF.


   2.2 Poverty Reduction Strategy

28.     Transitional Support Strategy (TSS). A TSS for Burundi (February 12, 2002,
Report No. 23635) reflects the Bank's support for the Government's program to
overcome the legacies o f the conflict, foster economic growth and reduce poverty. The
TSS describes a lending program that includes a grant for a Social Action Project, an
Emergency Reconstruction Credit and an Emergency Road Rehabilitation Credit in
addition to the Demobilization and Reintegration Project. The support o f the international
community for the DRRP (paragraphs 27-29), i s deemed essential for progress in the
peace processes. The proposedIDA grant for the DRRP i s thus i l l y consistent with the
TSS.

29.     Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). The Government o f Burundi completed an
interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (iPRSP) in November 2003. A Joint Staff
Assessment and the iPRSP were presented to the Boards o f the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) respectively in January 2004. Assistance to the
reintegration of ex-combatants is among one o f six priority areas for poverty reduction
identifiedinthe iPRSP. A final PRSP is expected bythe end o f2004.

30.     Restructuring of existing credits. The current IDA portfolio consists o f five
projects with satisfactory performance. None o f these projects is compatible in design
with the DRRP. Nevertheless, to leverage synergies and build on lessons learned, the
Government would establish links between the DRRP and several ongoing operations. In
particular, the experience gained under the Burundi Social Action Program would be
applied to inform the design o f community-based reintegration options for ex-
combatants. Close linkages would also be sought with projects dealing with agriculture,
publicworks andHIV/AIDS.


   2.3 Rationalefor IDA Involvement

31.     The Government's request for technical andfinancial assistance for the DRRPhas
come at a critical time in the peace process. IDA'S involvement is justified by its
considerable experience with such programs, the scale o f resources required for the
Program, the focus on sustainable economic reintegration of ex-combatants, and the need

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-Technical Annex             12



for IDA to be responsive to a client request to lead and coordinate international support
for a critical peace-building operation. IDA support would complement the activities of
other international stakeholders inBurundiand the region.

32.     Need for emergency assistance. The emergency is the extraordinary event o f
limited duration which started in November 16, 2003 following the signature o f the
comprehensive cease-fire agreement between the Government and the CNDD-FDD
(Nkurunziza). The implementation o f this agreement, which should help to bring a 10-
year civil war to an end, requires rapid financial and technical support. The impact o f the
conflict on Burundi has been profound. An estimated 300,000 Burundians have died as a
result o f the conflict and, due to insecurity, an estimated 1.2 million Burundians
(approximately 19% of the population), have been displaced within Burundi or fled to
neighboring countries. The application o f the Bank's emergency procedures under OP
8.50 i sjustified on the basis o f the following criteria:

            Impact on economic priorities and investment programs. A successfully
            implemented DRRP would help consolidate peace in Burundi and the region
            and support macroeconomic stability.

            Frequency. There i s general agreement that the peace process can be
            consolidated with specific stabilization measures, which can also help to
            prevent a return to conflict.

            Urgency. Urgent measures are needed to demobilize and reintegrate these ex-
            combatants ina rapid but structured manner.

            Prospects for reducing future hazards. Discontented ex-combatants could
            pose a threat to social stability. Therefore, structured demobilization and
            reintegration assistance may contribute to a reduction o f the risk o f future
            conflict.

            Expected economic benefits. The Program would provide the Government the
            means to consolidate social and economic recovery following the end o f the
            conflict.

33.     Making resources available for development. The persistent insecurity in the
Great Lakes region has led to the diversion o f scarce resources from economic and social
sectors to the defense and security sector. In the medium-term, in conjunction with a
defense and security sector reform process, the DRRP i s expected to facilitate the
reallocation o f Government resources from defense to economic and social investments.
The reduction o f defense spending would help ease the fiscal deficit, and is thus an
important factor to achieving macroeconomic and fiscal balance inthe longer term.


   2.4 Lessonsfrom Previous IDA Assistance

34.     IDA has gained substantial experience from a number o f demobilization and
reintegration programs it has supported in Africa and elsewhere. Such assistance has
often taken the form of technical andor financial support through investment credits,
budget support programs or through reallocations from ongoing projects. Based on

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex            13



information from these operations, a review o f relevant experiences in selected A h c a n
countries, and the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's evaluations, the following
best practices were identified and integrated inProgram design.

35.     Demobilization. This phase i s short but logistically complex. The successful
implementation o f demobilization activities i s a precondition for the subsequent provision
o f targeted reinsertion and reintegration assistance. Key demobilization activities include
the distribution o f non-transferable ID cards, the collection o f socio-economic data and
the establishment o f a database on the beneficiary population. The assembly o f ex-
combatants during the demobilization phase provides a good opportunity for HIV/AIDS
voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), as well as the dissemination o f information
about program benefits and civilian life.

36.     Reinsertion. Upon demobilization, the ex-combatants lose their source o f (formal
or informal) income. Experience suggests that they are usually in a vulnerable financial
position until they can begin to generate income. During this period (the "reinsertion"
phase), ex-combatants require a transitional safety net to cover their families' basic
material needs. The objective o f this transitional assistance would be to enable the ex-
combatants to return to their community and to sustain themselves and their families for a
limitedperiod following demobilization.

37.     Economic reintegration. Ex-combatants are often an economically vulnerable
group as they lack marketable skills, material assets and social networks. Inaddition, they
are often a high-risk group from a security perspective due to their familiarity with
weapons and violence. Where this is the case, targeted support i s advisable to help them
establish sustainable livelihoods. Inorder to be useful and cost-effective, such assistance
should be tailored to their socio-economic profile and adjusted to the economic
environment. Female ex-combatants often require specialized support to re-establish
sustainable livelihoods.

38.     In general, ex-combatants should receive no more support than is necessary to
help them attain the general standard o f living o f the communities into which they
reintegrate. Furthermore, reintegration assistance should be limited in time to avoid the
creation o f a dependency syndrome. Information, counseling and referral services can
assist ex-combatants to assess their livelihood options and find employment.
Apprenticeships in the informal sector combine the benefits o f vocational training and
employment and are thus preferable to training only. Micro-projects can help ex-
combatants secure their economic independence through self-employment. Micro-
projects are, however, complex interventions that require significant administrative
capacity and a stable environment.

39.     Ultimately, ex-combatants resettle into a broader economic environment. The
creation o f viable long-term employment opportunities for ex-combatants i s closely
linked to private sector growth and employment generation. It should be noted that ex-
combatants themselves could provide a significant human resource contribution to the
economy.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex          14



40.     Social reintegration. Social reintegration i s often eased by the support o f an
extended family network. Therefore, ex-combatants should be encouraged to reintegrate
in the vicinity of their extended families or to consider the social and financial
consequence of moving elsewhere. Informal networks o f ex-combatants can be important
elements to successful economic and social reintegration. Child ex-combatants should be
reunified with their families wherever possible, and assisted to resume their education or
enter into gainful enterprise. Disabled ex-combatants commonly require specialized
medical and assistance inovercoming the constraints o fthe disability.

41.     Care should be taken to prevent the stigmatization o f ex-combatants as unfit for
military service or as conveyers of disease and violence. Community sensitization and
information efforts are paramount inthis regard. The fears o f communities related to the
return o f ex-combatants should also be addressed.

42.     Institutional issues. Program coordination by a single civilian agency with overall
program responsibility, balanced by decentralization o f implementation to regions and
communities makes for a powerful institutional arrangement. Where possible, existing
implementation capacities should be leveraged. The employment o f ex-combatants as
counselors and field staff can facilitate reintegration. Inpeacekeeping environments such
as in Burundi, close operational linkages between the national implementation body and
the peacekeeping force are essential.



    3. The BurundiDemobilization, Reinsertionand Reintegration Program


    3.1 Eligibility Criteria

43.     The following general and national criteria needto be fulfilled for Government to
be eligible to receive assistance for the demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants
underthe MDRPframework:

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                              15



44.     General criteria

                        Table 1:General criteria for MDRP Assistance

                     Criteria                                                    Status

(i)     Affected by conflict. Being involved inor             Burundihas beenaffectedby civil war since
        directly affectedby one or more of the                1993.
        conflicts inthe greater Great Lakes region.
                                                              The Burundiconflict hasbeenexacerbatedby
                                                              the participation o f Rwandese elements.

                                                              The Government o fBurundiandAPPMs
                                                              undertook military operations inthe DRC
                                                              before 2003.

(ii)    Participation in the regional peace process.          Burundihas participated inthe Arusha peace
        Demonstratedwillingness to contribute to              process and subsequentpeace negotiations
        stability inthe greater Great Lakes region            under the auspices o f the African Union.
        andto implement relevant provisions o f the
        applicable peacelceasefire accord(s).                 Inaddition, the Government ofBurundihas
                                                              signed a bilateral non-aggression pact with the
                                                              Government o fthe DRC.



45.     Countvy-specijk criteria

                  Table 2: Country-Specific criteria for MDRP Assistance

                                    Criteria                                                  Status

(i)     Preparation of a national demobilization and reintegration program            Completed.
        as a result of the conjlict(s). This would typically be demonstrated by
        a national program developed in consultation with the international
        community and national stakeholders.

(ii)    Establishment of a suitable institutional structure. The government           Completed. Government
        would establish implementation arrangements with significant                  has established NCDRR
        planning, coordination and monitoring capacity and with appropriate           and Executive Secretariat
        participation o f relevant political and security stakeholders.

(iii)   A letter of demobilization policy outlining government commitment.            Completed.
        The Government would draft a letter in which it outlines its
        commitments to the regional peace process, demobilization and
        reintegration, defense and security sector reform and the expected
        fiscal impact o f demobilization.

(iv)    Establishment of appropriate safeguards andfiduciary measures. The            Completed within the
        government would provide assurances and monitoring measures to                context o f the program
        ensure    consistency    with    standard environmental       and    social   document.
        safeguards. In addition, government would establish satisfactory
        financial management and procurement arrangements.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex           16


   3.2 Objectives

46.     The overall goal o f the DRRP would be to help consolidate peace inBurundiand
the Great Lakes region through the implementation o f relevant articles o f the Arusha
Peace Accord and subsequent cease-fire agreements. The three principal objectives o f the
Program are to:

   (i)       demobilize an estimated 55,000 ex-combatants from the FAB, members o f
             APPMs, and subsequently the NDF, and support their reintegration into
             civilian life;

   (ii)      support the reinsertion o f an estimated 20,000 Gardiens de la Paix militia o f
             Government and approximately 10,000 combattants militants militia o f the
            APPMs; and

   (iii)    contribute to the reallocation o f Government expenditure from defense to
             social and economic sectors over a period o f five years.

47.     This Program is expected to have a significant impact on reducing poverty in
Burundi by: a) contributing to a stable and secure environment in which displaced
populations can return home, elections can be held, public and private investment i s
encouraged, and economic activities can be undertaken or restarted, and b) freeing up
additional public resources for investment insocial and economic sectors.


   3.3 Coverage and Implementation Period

48.     Target groups. the Government envisages the following target groups for the two
stages o f the DRRP:

49.     Target Groupsfor Stage I (Year 1of DRRP implementation)

        (i)      the demobilization and reinsertion o f 9,000 adult soldiers of the FAB and
                 members o f APPMs;

        (ii)     the demobilization and reinsertion o f up to 27,000 adult members o f the
                 Gardiens de la Paix and combattants militants o fthe APPMs; and

        (iii)    the demobilization and reinsertion o f approximately 8,000 child soldiers.

50.     The following target groups would be eligible for assistance during stage Io f the
DRRP:

Burundi Demobilization. Reinsertion and Reintegration Program   - TechnicalAnnex                    17



     Table3: EstimatedTarget Groupsfor Stage IDemobilizationof the DRRP


                                                                           Estimated# of
              Nameof Force                       Estimated # Of
                                                  Combatants             Combatantsto be
                                                                       DemobilizedinStageI*

   Forces Armkes Burundaises (FAB)                          45,000  I                          5,000

   CNDD-FDD (Nkurunziza)                                    25,000  I
   CNDD-FDD (Ndayikengurukiye)                               3,000

   FNL-PALIPEHUTU (Rwasa)                                    3,000

   CNDD (Nyangoma)                                           1,000                             9,000




   Total                                                    80,000                            14,000




51.     No child soldiers present inthe FAB and APPMs would be eligible for integration
into the NDF and all o f them would be demobilized during stage Io f the DRRP. Their
demobilization would be undertaken with the support o f the National Child Soldier
Demobilization, Reintegration and Recruitment Prevention Project, which i s co-financed
bythe MDTF as an MDRP Special Project.
52.     The identification and verification o f combatant status would be essential tasks
during stage I,in order to prevent non-combatants from accessing Program benefits.
These processes would be undertaken in accordance with procedures outlined inthe Joint
Operations Plan (JOP).3 According to the JOP, eligibility of members o f Burundian ex-
combatants would be assessedon the basis o fthe following general criteria:

    (i)     Submission o f a specified ratio o f arms and ammunition;

    (ii)    Identificationby unit commander of hidher force;

    (iii)   Affiliation with a recognized armed entity that engaged in military fighting
            before the signing o fthe respective cease-fire agreement o f that group;

    (iv)    Passing a test o f basic military knowledge and skills; and

    (v)     Burundian nationality.




  The purpose of the JOP is to outline a comprehensive set of procedures and mechanisms for the
disarmament, screening for military integration and demobilization of membersicombatants o f APPMs. The
JOP also defines the roles and responsibilities of the actors involved in this process. The JOP was
elaborated by a Technical Working Group comprising the ES/NCDRR, MDRP Secretariat, AMIB,
UNICEF, andUNOB.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program -TechnicalAnnex                18



53.      The verification o f combatants in stage Iwould be undertakenby Joint Liaison
Teams consisting o f AMIB, the Government, and a representative o f the relevant group
beingdemobilized.

54.      As specified in the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Accord o f August 2000 and
the comprehensive cease-fire agreement of November 2003, combatants would be
demobilized on the basis o fthe following broad criteria during stage Io fthe DRRP:

    (i) voluntarytermination;

    (ii) age(minimumandmaximum);

    (iii)    medical reasons (disability, chronic illness, etc.); and

    (iv)      level o f education and experience associated with respective ranks.

55.      In addition, the Program would support the demobilization and reinsertion of
approximately 20,000 Guardiens de la Paix, village militia aligned with the Government,
as well as an estimated 10,000 combattants militants during stage Iof the Program. The
demobilization of Guardiens de la Paix would be undertakenby mobile demobilization
teams o f the ES/NCDRR, with monitoring providedby AMIB.

56.      Target Groupsfor Stage 11(Years 2-5 of DRRP implementation)

    (i)      the demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration o f 41,000 personnel o f the
             NDF;

    (ii)      the provision o f reintegration assistance to all ex-combatants demobilized in
              stage Io f the Program; and

    (iii)     the provision of specialized reintegration assistance to disabled and child ex-
              combatants.

      Table 4: EstimatedTarget Group for Stage I1Demobilizationof the DRRP




  Forces de la DCfense Nationale         66,000        52,000        38,000       25,000

  # o f soldiers to be demobilized       14,000         14,000        13,000         0

  TOTAL Demobilized inStage I1                                                    41,000



57.      Duringstage I1o fthe Program, combatants would be demobilized on the basis o f
the following broad criteria:

    (i) voluntarytermination,

    (ii) age,

 Arusha Peace Accord, Article 21,7 (e)
  Gardiens de la Paix and Combattants Militants would be disarmed by the Government and relevant
provincial authorities. The process would be observed by AMIB.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program  -  TechnicalAnnex                 19



    (iii) medicalreasons,and

    (iv)    force structure requirements as identified inthe Arusha Accord and the Forces
            Technical Agreement.

58.     The reintegration o f approximately 55,000 ex-combatants poses particular
challenges in Burundi, a country devastated by conflict and with limited access to arable
land. Meaningful reinsertion and reintegration support for ex-combatants is necessary to
reduce the risk that the demobilization has negative security and social impacts, which
could potentiallyjeopardize the peace consolidation process.

59.     Geographical coverage. Reintegration activities would focus on those areas to
which ex-combatants return. As the settlement pattern o f ex-combatants is expected to be
scattered, Program benefits would likely be spread across the country. To facilitate rapid
Program start-up, reintegration activities would be prioritized by province according to
the settlement pattern o f ex-combatants, as well as implementation capacity at the
provincial and community levels.

60.     Duration. The DRRP would be implemented over a five year period. The
Program completion date i s December 31, 2008. The implementationtimeframe i s based
on the following considerations:

    (i)     It is anticipated that the labor market would not be able to absorb a large
            number o f ex-combatants duringthe initialwar-to-peace transition period;

    (ii)    The demobilization o f ex-combatants from the NDF during stage I1 o f the
            Program would be guided by a defense and security sector reform process. It
            i s anticipated that this reform program will be gradual in order to safeguard
            the cohesion o f the NDF. In this context, it is also believed that the rank
            verification process for officers o f the NDFwill take at least 24 months; and

61.     The implementation o f demobilization activities may be accelerated in the event
that a large number o f combatants choose not to enter the NDF or choose to leave the
NDF early on. To ensure Program preparedness for such an eventuality, the Program
would maintain adequate resources in its accounts, and financing would be structured
flexibly. Furthermore, the ES/NCDRR would maintain close communication with the
NDF and partners involved inthe defense and security sector reformprocess.




    3.4 Program Components

62.     The D W would contain four components6:

    (i)     demobilization, including HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures;

 Disarmament instage Iwould be undertaken outside the Program inaccordance with the provisions of the
JOP. The Government would be responsible for the disarmament of the Gardiens de la Paix and the
combattants militants, with observation by AMIB. The disarmament o f NDF personnel in stage I1of the
Program would be undertaken by the NDF, prior to their transport to the DemobilizationCenters.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program    -TechnicalAnnex                    20



    (ii) reinsertion;

    (iii) reintegration; and

    (iv)    customized reintegration assistance for special groups.


    3.4.1 Demobilization

Demobilization StageI

63.     The demobilization o f 9,000 ex-combatants from the APPMs and 5,000 soldiers
of the FABwouldbe completed ina period o f approximately six months duringstage Io f
the DRRP.

64.     Locations: The demobilization of APPMs and the FAB would be undertaken in
Demobilization Centers. The NCDRR would establish at least one demobilization center
for the FAB and two centers for the APPMs. The NCDRR would expand their capacity
and/or establish additional centers as feasible andnecessary.

65.     Security: The DCs for the APPMs would be protected by AMIB. The DCs for the
FABwould beprotectedbythe FAB,with monitoring by JLTs.

66.     Procedures: To the extent possible, demobilization procedures for FAB soldiers
andmembers o f APPMs would be similar. The following activities are outlined indetail
inthe JOP and the Program ImplementationManual (PIM) and are envisaged for all ex-
combatants inthe demobilization phase. Blankets, cutlery, and cups would be distributed
to ex-combatants upon their arrival inthe demobilization centers.

67.     Verzjkation. The eligibility o f each arriving combatant candidate would be
verified. The identity of FAB ex-combatants would be determined usingtheir military ID
card and/or discharge letter, andwould be monitored by JLTs.~                The IDnumber would be
compared with a list o f soldiers to be demobilized provided by the FAB. The
identification of members o f APPMs would be basedon the criteria above, andwould be
undertaken by JLTs.*

68.     Registration and ID card. Upon identification for demobilization, each ex-
combatant would be registered and provided with non-transferable DRRP identification
documents (IDS).To ensure security, these would be individually numbered, signed,
stamped, laminated, andcontain a photograph. Additional security features maybe added
if necessary. ID cards would be identical irrespective of former military affiliation. ID
cards for child ex-combatants would note their special status. Immediately upon


'Priortotheir arrival inthe Demobilization Center, FAB soldiers would be legally discharged. They would
beprovided with discharge letters confirming the termination o ftheir military service.
 APPM combatants repatriated from the Democratic Republic o f Congo with the assistance o f MONUC
would be transported to the Demobilization Centers with the assistance o f AMIB. Upon their arrival in
DCs, they would follow the same verification and demobilization procedures as all other APPM
combatants.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                        21



identification for demobilization, ex-combatants would be required to sign a form
acknowledging and renouncing their combatant status.

69.      Socio-economic profile and reintegration expectations. Socio-economic profile
data and a Reintegration Expectations interview would be conducted by the ES/NCDRR,
in order to inform the design of subsequent reintegration assistance measures. Data
collected would include demographic characteristics (age, gender, marital status, number
o f children, etc.),       assets, education level, health status, needs and reintegration
aspirations. These data would be entered into the Program's Management Information
System (MIS).

70.     Pre-demobilization orientation (PDO). Pre-demobilization orientation would
provide ex-combatants with information about Program benefits, implementation
arrangements at the central and local levels, health issues, and civic rights and duties
(including women's legal rights). The PDO would be organized inmodules andwould be
carried out by ES/NCDRR and its implementing partners. The ES/NCDRR would
identify and train counselors and prepare appropriate counseling materials. The PDO
would seek to minimize unrealistic expectations about Program benefits.

71.     Medical screening and Voluntary Counseling and Testing for HIV/AIDS. Ex-
combatants would be screened to identify serious diseases or impairments that may affect
their ability for economic and social reintegration. Furthermore, voluntary counseling and
testing (VCT) for HIV/AIDS would be offered. The ES/NCDRR would contract an
implementingpartner as required.

72.     Distribution of vouchers. The ES/NCDRR would distribute computer-generated,
numbered vouchers to enable eligible ex-combatants to access the Transitional
Subsistence Allowance (TSA). Each voucher would have three stubs, one for the
beneficiary, one for the ES/NCDRR and one for the implementing partner contracted to
effect the payments.

73.      Transport to communities of return. As part o f the first installment o f the TSA,
the ES/NCDRR would provide transport allowances in cash to enable ex-combatants to
travel from the DCs to their chosen areas o f retum. Ex-combatants would be requiredto
report to the Provincial Program Offices intheir area o f retum within thirty days o f their
departure from the DC.9

74.      Special Target Groups. DCs would contain special separate living areas for child
ex-combatants and for female ex-combatants. Child ex-combatants would undergo a
separate demobilization process with the support o f the National Child Soldier
Demobilization, Reintegration and Recruitment Prevention Project supported by
UNICEF, with MDRP financing. Adult female ex-combatants would undergo a similar
demobilization process as male ex-combatants,                     with extra personal protection,
specialized medical screening and PDO as appropriate.



  Ex-combatants who wish to move from one province to another in the course o f the Program would be
required to register with the PPO inhislher new area of settlement inorder to access Programbenefits.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex               22



75.      Timeframe: The demobilization o fFAB soldiers would take no more than 10 days
per person. The implementation o f stage Idemobilization is estimated to be completed
within 6 months o f its initiation. The ultimate duration o f the stage Idemobilization
process will depend on several factors, including (i) actual number o f combatants to
                                                            the
be demobilized, (ii)the implementation o f disarmament and military integration
activities, and (iii) capacity o f AMIB to undertake disarmament and to provide
                      the
security at DCs.

Demobilization Stage11

76.     Stage I1 demobilization would be undertaken during years 2-4 o f program
implementation. During this stage, 41,000 personnel o f the National Defense Force
(NDF) would be demobilized. Demobilization would be more gradual during stage 11,
and would be undertaken from a single DC. The procedures would be identical with those
for FAB soldiers demobilized instage I.




    3.4.2 Reinsertion

77.     In accordance with the principle o f equity among ex-combatants from different
politico-military origins, all APPM combatants, as well as FAB and NDF soldiers
demobilized in the DRRP would receive a Transitional Subsistence Allowance (TSA).
The TSA would be based on salary levels o f FAB soldiers, and would provide for the
basic reinsertion needs o f ex-combatants over a period o f 18 months. The amount o f the
TSA would be differentiated by rank, with agreed rank distribution percentages for all
parties established before the initiation o f demobilization activities. The basic benefit for
private soldiers would be FBU566,OOO (US$515). The average benefit would amount to
FBU644,OOO (US$586). The total reinsertion assistance for a private soldier compares
favorably with similar programs inAfrica (see attachment 5).

78.     The TSA would be paid incash for the following reasons:

            experience insimilar programs suggests that the cash payments have generally
            been used for constructive purposes by most beneficiaries;

            cash payments empower ex-combatants to make choices according to their
            own needs andpriorities;

            cash payments have lower transaction costs than in-kind assistance; and

            they help to stimulate a supply response from a variety of local producers o f
            goods and services, thereby contributing to an invigoration o f the local
            economy inareas o freintegration.

79.      Timeframe. The TSA would be paid in six installments. The first installment
would be paid prior to departure from the DC. The second payment would be made three
months after settlement in the community o f choice. Four subsequent installments would
be paid in quarterly intervals. Experiences from other countries suggest that payment in

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex                23



installments over time afford ex-combatants an opportunity to improve their financial
management skills.

80.     Gardiens de la Paix and combattants militants would be eligible for a single
reinsertion payment in the amount o f FBU100,OOO                    (US$91)   following their
demobilization. These payments would be made through the same banking modalities as
those utilized for ex-combatants.

81.     Counseling. To encourage the appropriate use o f the TSA, the Program would
provide extensive counseling on its use prior to demobilization and after arrival in the
community o f settlement, including peer-to-peer counseling (sharing o f experiences by
ex-combatants demobilized earlier). It would help ensure that the choice o f their path
towards establishing a livelihood - and thus reintegration        -  corresponds to individual
circumstances and the local economic opportunity structure. Families o f ex-combatants
would be included inthis counseling to the greatest extent possible.

82.     Payment modalities. The payments would be made by the ESNCDRR- through
the existing national banking system - and would be monitored by the Provincial
Program Office (PPO). Ex-combatants would become eligible for their TSA upon
registration at their respective PPO, and after having opened a bank account in their
provincial capital. The PPO would request the ES/NCDRR to transfer the funds to the
individual bank accounts. Withdrawals would be effected by the participating banks
using lists provided by the ESNCDRR, based on presentation o f the required ex-
combatant ID card and a payment voucher. Ex-post reviews would verify the correct
execution o f payments and facilitate the fine-tuning o f payment systems. The use o f bank
accounts has several indirect benefits, including banking education for ex-combatants,
rural capital formation, and a boost for the banking system.

83.     Monitoring. The ES/NCDRR would monitor the usage o f the TSA through its
PPOs, and consider strategies to ensure that inputs are used inthe most effective fashion
for the family unit.

84.     Safeguards. The DRRP would utilize several safeguards to ensure complete and
accurate payment o f the TSA: (i)        tracking o f TSA distribution through the financial
database as part o f the MIS; (ii)    registration at the PPO; (iii) photo ID card; and
                                                                     unique
(iv) regular surveys o f beneficiaries to verify receipt o f payment using representative
sampling methodologies.




    3.4.3 Reintegration

85.     Guiding principles. Building on experiences                with demobilization and
reintegration programs elsewhere in Africa and on lessons learned from community-
based development projects in Burundi, the DRRP would provide significant economic
and social reintegration assistance to help ex-combatants                 establish sustainable

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex            24



livelihoods. The following guiding principles have been agreed upon for reintegration
assistance:

             ex-combatants would receive a similar amount o f assistance, irrespective o f
             their previous military affiliation;

             ex-combatants themselves best know their needs and ambitions; they would
             thus beallowed to choose their reintegrationdestination andactivities freely;

             the Program would provide special reintegration assistance for former child
             soldiers, female ex-combatants, and ex-combatants with disabilities;

             the Program would help ex-combatants secure access to broader national
             reconstructionand employment creationprograms;

             in the event that health reasons or death prevent an ex-combatant from
             utilizing the reintegration assistance themselves, a designated member o f the
             family would become directly eligible to receive the assistance; and

             the Program would seek to involve andbenefit communities o f settlement.

86.      Detailed reintegration assistance activities would be developed on the basis o f the
socio-economic profile and aspiration data collected during the demobilization process,
and the opportunities available in the economic environment in which ex-combatants
resettle. Based on experience from other reintegration programs, the below activities are
likely to form the core o f the assistanceprovided to ex-combatants duringthis phase.

87.      Information and referral. An important pillar o f the reintegration support
provided through the Program would be the direct interaction o f Program staff with ex-
combatants and their dependents, providing them with relevant information, referral to
opportunities and other assistance. The ESNCDRR, including staff based in its PPOs,
would play a proactive role in answering questions from ex-combatants with regard to
employment opportunities, identification and development o f micro-projects, and finding
access to training and education opportunities. The staff would also inform the ex-
combatants about other opportunities such as parallel reconstruction initiatives in the
areas concerned.

88.      Counseling. The PPOs would provide advice and counsel individual ex-
combatants with regard to specific problems. These could range from administrative and
legal issues to community conflicts. Where appropriate and feasible, the staff would refer
them to specialized advisors, be they medical, legal or business experts. Experience in
other countries has shown that in the reintegration process an approachable `willing ear'
that is aware o f the specific problems o f ex-combatants can play an important role in
helpingthem establish a new civilian livelihood.

89.     Advocacy. The ESNCDRR would actively approach employers, educational
institutions and other reconstmction and development initiatives with the aim o f
identifying and advocating for the integration o f ex-combatants in a broad field o f
activities.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex               25



90.       Training. The Program would promote training as a means towards social and
economic reintegration. This training could take various forms, from formal professional
training to on-the-job training and apprenticeship. Training would increase the ex-
combatants' skill level, which would provide better access to certain jobs and facilitate
self-employment. It would contribute to the stabilization o f the ex-combatants' lives, as
well as provide them time to familiarize themselves with the challenges and opportunities
o f civilian life.

     (i)     The ES/NCDRR would approach existing training and educational institutions
             to facilitate participation o f ex-combatants intheir courses;

     (ii)    The ES/NCDRR would encourage these institutions to develop fast-track
             courses which would be tailored to the needs and aspirations o f ex-
             combatants; and

     (iii)   The ES/NCDRR would encourage small and medium sized enterprises inthe
             formal and informal sector to provide apprenticeships and on-the-job training
             to ex-combatants.

91.      Micro-projects. The ES/NCDRR would, through the various means indicated
above, guide the ex-combatants to opportunities o f starting a micro-project for
themselves or in collaboration with others. The most likely sectors in which these
initiatives would take place are small-scale agriculture, livestock keeping, fisheries,
handicraft, construction, services or trade. The criteria for access to micro-projects would
be inline with the general practice inthe country.

92.      For some o f the possible reintegration support projects (e.g., training, formal
education, apprenticeships), the ES/NCDRR may enter into a contract with implementing
partners. This contract would stipulate the responsibilities o f the implementers regarding
the provision o f economic reintegration assistance to ex-combatants, including the
expected result of the sub-project and its duration and cost. The PPOs would undertake
regular monitoring on a representative basis to verify service delivery to Program
beneficiaries.

93.      Micro-finance. Ex-combatants would be encouraged to link up with existing
micro-finance opportunities. This could be especially helpful for groups including ex-
combatants together with other civilians. However, the Program would not itself
undertake micro-credit financing activities.

94.      Synergies. Along the lines indicated in the previous paragraph, the Program
would also assess the feasibility and appropriateness of some existing reintegration,
employment creation, and social development programs to channel some o f the assistance
towards the reintegration o f ex-combatants.

95.      Access to land. It is anticipated that up to 75% o f the ex-combatants will settle in
rural areas. Therefore, access to land i s likely to become one o f the critical elements for
successful economic integration. Ex-combatants' access to landwould be facilitated with
the same procedures used for others who needland. Specifically, any Burundian insearch
o f land for housing or agricultural production would normally contact the local

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex              26



administration, which would allot an available piece o f public land for use ifpossible. In
the event that no public land were available, the local administration would consult with
relevant community membersto determine whether they would agree to cede part o f their
land to the newcomer(s) on a voluntary basis."               There would be no involuntary
displacement o f other civilians as a result o f ex-combatants settling ina community.

96.      Social reintegration. The objective o f social reintegration assistance would be to
promote reconciliation and cooperation between ex-combatants and other civilians in
communities o f settlement. Social reintegrationmay be especially difficult incases where
ex-combatants have no 'home'             to which they can return. The participation o f
communities in the reintegration aspects o f the Program i s considered critical for
successful reintegration. Activities to facilitate social reintegrationwould include:

     (i)    information and sensitization o f ex-combatants and communities through
            outreach activities, including training o f counselors and sensitization efforts
            (national awareness campaign regarding the Program, discussion o f ex-
            combatants and community rights and obligations, training sessions for
            community leaders, regular activities by the ESNCDRR towards sensitization
            andproblem solving, gender issues, etc.);

     (ii)   fostering reconciliation between ex-combatants and their host communities,
            where appropriate;

     (iii)  assessments of social impacts o f reintegration, community perceptions o f ex-
            combatants, and vice versa;

     (iv)   provision o f support to ex-combatants that would have positive secondary
            (spin-off) effects on the larger community (e.g., infrastructure rehabilitation);
            and

     (v)    specialized counseling (e.g., family, HIV/AIDS, and women).

97.      Linking projects with other initiatives. The Program recognizes the need to
proactively coordinate assistance to ex-combatants with assistance provided to other war-
 affected populations. The following approaches would be considered to attain more
balance in the support provided to ex-combatants, other war-affected groups and the
communities inwhich they try to reintegrate:

     (i)    Utilization  - to the extent possible - o f community development mechanisms
            and systems to appraise and channel assistance to ex-combatants;

     (ii)   Provision o f support to community          -  or area-based programs - and other
            broad development schemes - in areas where a large number o f ex-
            combatants settle, and conditional on the participation o f a large proportion o f
            ex-combatants inthe implementation o f such assistance; and

     (iii)  Ensuring clear communication towards a broad audience on the support
            provided to the ex-combatants and the broader benefits to the community.


~~~




 loThe Programwould not finance the acquisition ofland.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex          27




    3.4.4 Special target groups

98.     Child ex-combatants. It is anticipated that approximately 8,000 child soldiers
would be demobilized by the Program - representing a significant target group. The
demobilization o f and reintegration support to underage soldiers i s currently being
addressed through a Special Project implemented by Govemment and UNICEF with
financing from the MDTF o f the MDRP.Inthe preparation for this National Program, the
procedures and approaches o f the ESNCDRR and the current Special Project would be
harmonized.

99.     The DRRP would adopt the Cape Town Principles and associated definitions o f
child soldiers. In line with the assistance provided under the current Special Project,
assistance to the reintegration o f child ex-combatants would include family tracing and
unification, trauma counseling and psycho-social care, and facilitation o f access to
education and recreation in communities o f settlement. Children older than 15 years may
have different needs and would receive appropriate support (e.g., for vocational training).
Under the overall coordination o f the National Program, the National Child Soldier
Demobilization Project unit would be responsible for implementation, with the technical
assistance o fUNICEF.

100.    Female ex-combatants. The Program would pay special attention to the well-
being o f female ex-combatants and provide targeted support. Specific measures would
include the following:

            Provision o f information and training to Joint Liaison Teams and AMIB
            concerningthe eligibility o f female ex-combatants for DRRP assistance;

            Sensitization o f APPMs in pre-disarmament assembly areas about the
            eligibility o f female ex-combatants for DRRPassistance;

            ensuring that benefits for ex-combatants are equally accessible to men and
            women;

            encouraging implementing partners to ensure that their reintegration support
            activities facilitate the participation o f female ex-combatants;

            encouraging female ex-combatants to participate inwomen's associations;

            including partners o f ex-combatants and women in communities o f retum in
            community-level counseling activities;

            strengthening the gender awareness and capacity o f the staff o f the
           ESNCDRR and authorities o f the communities to which a significant number
           o f female ex-combatants may return; and

           monitoring the impact o f the Program on partners o f ex-combatants and
           women in communities o f retum and bringing emerging problems to the
           attention o f the relevant authorities.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program  - Technical Annex                   28



101.     Disabled ex-combatants." The Program would seek to systematically address the
medical and economic rehabilitation needs o f disabled ex-combatants. The degree o f
disability would be defined by a medical screening during the demobilization process.
The Program would finance the provision o f medical rehabilitation assistance depending
on the degree o f disability. To this end, it would seek to reinforce key medical facilities to
provide prosthesis and physiotherapy services to ex-combatants. In cases where ex-
combatants are unable to pursue economic activities, the Program would facilitate the
deferral o f Program benefits to a family member identified by the ex-combatant.


    3.4.5 HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures

102.     The DRRP would provide HIV/AIDS sensitization and voluntary counseling and
testing (VCT) to ex-combatants during demobilization. The DRRP would coordinate
closely with the existingnational AIDS program to take over counseling and treatment o f
ex-combatants and their families incommunities o f settlement.

103.     Demobilization phase. The following activities would be conducted for all ex-
combatants during the demobilization process: (i)initial sensitization; (ii)pre-test
counseling; (iii)  voluntary testing (every effort would be made to have facilities available
to run the confirmatory test in the field for ex-combatants who test positive on the first
screening test); and (iv) post-test counseling. Ex-combatants who test negative would be
given an individual counseling session in which they would be informed o f their sero-
negative status and receive the standard Information, Education and Communication
(IEC) material and condom package. Ex-combatants who test positive would have
confirmatory testing, receive intensive post-test counseling, be given condoms, and be
referred to a local hospital for management and support for potential opportunistic
infections. The ES/NCDRR would sub-contract the sensitization and VCT during the
demobilization process to appropriate specialized agencies.

104.     Reintegration phase. Incollaboration with activities envisaged under the national
AIDS program, the following activities would be considered in the reintegration phase:
(i)referring HIV positive ex-combatants to the organizations responsible for
implementingthe national AIDS program, (ii)             encouraging HIV-positive ex-combatants
to join or establish support groups o f people living with HIV/AIDS; (iii)             utilizing ex-
combatant networks to disseminate HIV/AIDS sensitization in communities o f
settlement; and (iv) transferring economic reintegration assistance o f HIV/AIDS affected
ex-combatants who are unable to resume economic activities to a family member.




    3.5 Program Cost

105.     The Program i s estimated to cost US$84.4 million (see table 5), o f which IDA
would finance US$33 million with grant resources. The MDTF o f the MDW would

" Disability is defined as the functional limitation within an individual causedby physical, mental or
sensory impairment.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program     -TechnicalAnnex                        29



provide financing in the amount o f US$45.4 million (see table 6). The German
government has indicated that it plans to finance about US$6 million bilaterally. The
average direct benefit per ex-combatant would amount to US$1,054, while the average
cost per beneficiary is likely to amount to US$1,325. Inview o f the fact that the actual
number o f ex-combatants may vary from the estimates, the Program has incorporated
contingency resources o f US$4 million.

  Table 5: BurundiDemobilization,ReinsertionandReintegrationProgramCosts


            Component                   AverageUnit Cost




* Average unit cost for ex-combatants, excluding special target group beneficiaries, Gardrens de la Paix and
Combattants militants.




106.    Government counterpart contribution. Notwithstanding its fiscal constraints, the
Government i s committed to supporting the Program. In this spirit, Government would
waive all taxes levied inBurundion works, goods and services for this Program.

     Table 6: BurundiDemobilization,ReinsertionandReintegrationProgram
                                           FinancingPlan

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex             30



    3.6 Conditions of Effectiveness

107.    The following conditions o f effectiveness have been agreed upon with
Government:

    (i)     Government has adopted a decree definingex-combatant status and associated
            criteria, inform and substance satisfactory to the Association;

    (ii)    Government has adopted a ministerial order defining Gardiens de la Paix and
            Combattants militants status and associated criteria, in form and substance
            satisfactory to the Association;

    (iii) the Program Implementation Manual (PIM),                       including a financial
            management and procurement section, has been adopted by the NCDRR in
            form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and

    (iv)    the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account (DRFA) has been
            established.



    4. Studies and Technical Assistance

108.    Institutional development support would be provided in the form o f studies and
technical assistance to inform the implementation o f the Program. The Bank would
provide technical support as required.


    4.1 Studies

109.    Several studies were completed during program preparation with the assistance o f
a Post-Conflict Fund grant from the World Bank. These studies covered the following
areas: agriculture, livestock, employment, micro-credit, vocational training, social
reintegration, and medical rehabilitation-o f disabled ex-combatants. While some o f the
studies may have to be updated.

110.    Economic Opportunity Inventory. The ES/NCDRR would undertake one new
studyto map economic opportunities. The objective o fthis studywould be to establish an
inventory o f reintegration opportunities (training, employment, development projects,
etc.) by province and sector. This inventory would be used by the PPOs for informing
and counseling ex-combatants.


    4.2 Technical Assistance

111. Pre-demobilization orientation program. A program would be developed to
provide ex-combatants with information about the Program, health issues and civilian
life. Inparticular, ex-combatants would be briefed about their benefits and the modalities
to access them, banking and financial matters, civic and community duties, training and
employment opportunities, access to land and credit, income generating activities, and
family and health issues.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex            31



112.     Program of community sensitization and participation. The objective o f this
program would be to sensitize the civilian population about the DRRP and the challenges
faced during this process by ex-combatants and their families. The program would also
address the concerns o f the receiving communities and to encourage their participation in
reintegration activities. The program would be disseminated on various forms o f media
(e.g., radio, brochures, popular folk theater, andnewspapers).

113.     Local and/or expatriate technical assistance may be required for short-term and
longer-tenn assignments during Program implementation. Consultancies would be
required on an ongoing basis, especially for periodic external audits and independent
evaluations. Qualified (private andor public) providers would be sub-contracted by the
ES/NCDRR to undertake such activities. Targeted technical assistance may also be
needed for HIV/AIDS activities and the special target group component (child ex-
combatants, disabled ex-combatants, female ex-combatants). The ES/NCDRR could sub-
contract relevant activities in part or as a whole to qualified implementing partners. For
training and employment opportunities, the ES/NCDRR would prepare a roster o f
qualified organizationdemployers byprovince.




     5. Institutional Arrangements and Program Implementation


     5.1 Institutional Structure

114.     Government formally established the National Commission for Demobilization,
Reinsertion and Reintegration (NCDRR) on August 28, 2003. The NCDRR has been
mandated to provide policy guidance and to oversee the design and implementationof the
DRRP. It would be dissolved upon completion o f demobilization and reintegration
activities envisaged inthe Program.

115.     The NCDRR is supported by an Executive Secretariat (ESNCDRR), which i s
tasked with the technical planning and implementation o f the DRRP, as well as
coordination with external program partners. Government nominated key personnel o f
the ESNCDRR in November 2003. The ES/NCDRR would be supported by Provincial
Program Offices (PPOs).


     5.1.1 Central level

116.     National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration. The
Commission would be the Government's supervisory body o f the DRRP.12The NCDRR
i s chaired by the President o f the Republic. Its mainresponsibilities would include:




l2 The costs associatedwith the Commission wouldbe bome by the GovernmentofBurundi.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex          32



    (i) determiningGovernmentpolicyfor thedemobilizationandreintegrationof
            ex-combatants;

    (ii) guiding the activities undertaken to ensure ex-combatants' successful
            transition to civilian life;

    (iii) monitoringandguidingtheimplementationoftheProgrambytheExecutive
            Secretariat; and

    (iv)    providing strategic and policy-level Program coordination.



117.    Executive Secretariat. The Executive Secretariat would serve as the Program's
implementation unit. The ES/NCDRR would report to the office o f the President. In
particular, the ES/NCDRR would be charged with:

            the preparationand costing o f detailed annual implementationplans;

            the implementation and coordination o f the individual DRRP components
            (demobilization, reinsertion, reintegration, special target groups, HIV/AIDS
            measures). To this end, the ESNCDRR would establish close links with
            relevant Government departments, local organizations and associations, and
            the private sector;

            the transparent and accountable administration o f Program resources
            (including procurement and financial management);

            monitoring and evaluation o f program implementation progress and impacts;
            and

            ensuring the coordination o f international partners in accordance with the
            provisions o f the Grant Agreements and the principles o f the MDRP.

118.    The ESNCDRR would be headed by an Executive Secretary and comprise three
main departments (see attachment 7 for organigram):

    (i)     administration and finance (including personnel and financial management);

    (ii)    operations (including demobilization, reintegration and special groups); and

    (iii)   informationmanagement (including information and sensitization).


    5.1.2 Provincial level

119.    The ESNCDRR could not hope to properly oversee implementation o f
reintegration assistance from one central point. Therefore, the NCDRR would establish a
Provincial Program Office (PPO) in each province (17 provinces) to help administer
reinsertion and reintegration assistance, and to monitor and evaluate program
implementation progress and impacts. In provinces in which more than 3,000 ex-
combatants settle, additional personnel would be deployed. The PPOs o f the ES/NCDRR
would be attached to the offices o f the provincial administration. The ESNCDRR would

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex             33



recruit staff o f the PPOs in consultation with the respective provincial administrators.
PPO staff would report to the ES/NCDRR. This approach would help strengthen
decentralized Program delivery capacity and ensure the integration o f Program
implementation inthe Government's provincial structures.

120.    The DRRP Provincial Program Offices would be responsible for the following:

    (i)    updating the inventory o f projects and training and employment providers;

    (ii)   conducting outreach activities with ex-combatants, including counseling and
           referral as well as business development support;

    (iii)  managingthe work o f district ex-combatant outreach personnel;

    (iv)   technical and financial monitoring o f reintegration activities, especially at the
           community level;

    (v)    coordinating with other Government and non-governmental institutions and
           reconstruction activities; and

    (vi)   reporting to the ES/NCDRR on a regular basis.


    5.1.3 Commune level

121.    The ES/NCDRR would also recruit and train one ex-combatant ineach o f the 117
communes of the country to serve as a Commune Outreach Officer (COO). These
outreach officers would serve as the link between the Program and the ex-combatant at
the community level. Their responsibilities would include the following:

    (i)    provision o f Program information to ex-combatants;

    (ii)   identification o f local economic reintegration opportunities and constraints;

    (iii)  advocacy o f ex-combatant access to local community-based development and
           reconstruction activities;

    (iv)   facilitating ex-combatant communicationwith local authorities;

    (v)    collecting monitoring and evaluationdata;

    (vi)   facilitating conflict resolution and reconciliation at the community level; and

    (vii)  identification o f major reintegration bottlenecks and conflicts, and their
           referral to PPOs.


    5.1.4 Staffing, institutional support and capacity building

122.    The institutional structure for Program implementation requires strengthening at
all levels (Executive Secretariat and Provincial Program Offices). Government has
already recruited several management personnel o f the ES/NCDRR satisfactory to IDA,

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                        34



including the Executive Secretary, the Information and Sensitization and Operations and
Missions advisors, as well as the Director o f Finance and Administration and Operations.
The ESNCDRR would be further strengthened through the appointment o f key technical
personnel through a competitive process and terms o f reference satisfactory to IDA. PPO
personnel would be recruited in accordance with the settlement pattems o f ex-
combatants. All positions could be filled by qualified ex-combatants. Impartiality in
implementation o f activities for different target groups would be closely monitored
duringprogram implementation.

123.     Equipment would be procured to help the ESNCDRR and the PPOs fulfill their
responsibilities effectively. For the ESNCDRR, this would include vehicles and office
equipment. Each PPO would receive essential office equipment as well as motorcycles
for monitoring and outreach activities.

124.     Staff development at the central and provincial levels would be critical for
effective Program implementation. Staff at all levels would therefore undergo training.
The objectives o f this training, which would commence immediately after staff have been
recruitedlassigned, would be to ensure that all involved in the DRRP have the same
understanding o f the Program objectives, procedures, and specific responsibilities,
including their tasks in relation to the internal reporting system. A staff development
program would be prepared and would include: (i)              the preparation o f a training plan; (ii)
the development of training materials; and (iii) carrying out o f training activities,
                                                             the
including gender awareness and sensitization, conflict resolution and reconciliation. Staff
selection and training would include measures to enhance the ability o f ES/NCDRR
personnel to provide assistance in an equitable manner irrespective o f the former military
affiliation o f beneficiaries. As necessary, relevant PPO and commune outreach personnel
would also undergo training for supervising the micro-project activities supported by the
DRRP.


     5.1.5 Program Coordination Mechanisms

125.     The Government and the World Bank established a Disarmament, Demobilization
and Reintegration Coordination Committee (DDR-CC) in Bujumbura in February 2003.
With the recent establishment of the NCDRR, and in accordance with the principle o f
national ownership fundamental to the MDRP, the ESNCDRR would assume the co-
chairmanship o fthis ~ommittee'~.The main objectives o fthe committee are to:

     (i) coordinate the provision of intemational assistance to disarmament,
             demobilization and reintegration (DDR) activities inBurundi;

     (ii) act as a forum for technical discussions between Government and
             intemational partners o f the national program design, preparation and
             implementation;



13The establishment of technical coordination sub-committees o n specific subjects (social reintegration,
training and education, etc.) will be considered as required.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex         35



    (iii)  ensure coordination between DDR and related activities, including pre-
           cantonment, humanitarian assistance, defense and security sector reform,
           AMIB, andreintegration o fother war-affectedpopulations; and

    (iv)   monitor the implementation o f DDR activities.

126.    In addition, the following three coordination mechanisms would play an
important role at different levels duringimplementationo f stage Io f the D W :

    (9     the JCC would provide overall policy guidance and monitoring support to the
           disarmament process envisaged inthe JOP;

    (ii) aTechnicalCoordinationCommittee(TCC)consistingofkeyimplementation
           stakeholders, and co-chaired by the AMIB Chief o f Staff and the Operations
           Advisor o f the ES/NCDRR, would serve as a technical coordination body for
           the implementation o f all JOP activities.

    (iii) a Joint Operations Center (JOC) consisting of AMIB and ESNCDRR
           demobilization personnelwould be responsible for operational coordination o f
           AMIB and ES/NCDRR activities envisaged in the JOP. The JOC would be
           situated within the offices o fthe ESNCDRR.

127.    The ES/NCDRR would establish additional coordinationmechanisms as required.
Inparticular, the ES/NCDRR would envisage the establishment of a technical committee
to help further refine its social and economic reintegration strategy, and to ensure
coordination o f targeted ex-combatant reintegration activities with broader recovery and
reconstructionefforts, bothwithin Government and with external partners.


    5.2 Financial Management and Auditing

 128.   The overall coordination o f the Program would be under the responsibility o f the
ES/NCDRR, which i s headed by an Executive Secretary. H e i s assisted by three advisors,
and three heads o f departments including the Director o f Administration and Finance, the
Director o f Operations, and the Director o f Information and Sensitization. All funds
would be managed by the ES/NCDRR. PPOs would not be involved in funds
management, though petty cash would be made available to cover minor expenses within
established limits.

 129.   The principal objective o f the Program's financial management system (FMS)
would be to support management inthe distribution o f limitedresources with the purpose
o f ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery o f outputs required to
achieve program objectives. Specifically, the FMS must be capable o f producing timely,
understandable,     relevant and reliable financial information that would enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress
towards the achievement o f its objectives.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex           36



130.    Qualified, experienced and independent auditors would be appointed on approved
terms o f reference. The external audit would cover all World Bank, other donors and
Counterpart funds at all levels o fProgram execution.

131.    The detailed financial management arrangements i s contained inAttachment 9 o f
the Technical h e x .




    5.2.1 DisbursementArrangements

    Financing Mechanisms

132.    There would be five distinct financing mechanisms for the DRRP:

    a   A quick disbursingmechanismfor Category (1) o fthe Grant;
    a   A special Account for Categories (2) to (5) o fthe Grant;
    a   The government's contribution inclusive of donor support through the budget;
    a   The Multi-DonorTrust Fund(MDTF) o fthe MDW; and
    a   Accounts for other bilateral financing partners.

133.    The rapid implementation o f the Program requires a substantial amount o f
primarily local currency at specific points in time. The Program addresses this exigency
by incorporating the provision o f foreign exchange through a quick disbursing
mechanism. This mechanism would consist o f reimbursement to the Government o f the
foreign currency used for private sector imports for eligible goods included in a pre-
approved positive list o f imports. The proceeds o f the quick disbursingcomponent would
be disbursed twice a year in roughly equal installments following the sequence o f the
demobilization plan agreed uponwith the Government.

 134.   Upon receipt o f the proceeds o f the Grant through the release o f each installment,
the Central Bank o f Burundi (BRB) would convert the foreign currency into Burundian
Francs and deposit them in a Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account (DRFA)
opened by the Government for this purpose.

 135.   A positive list o f imports would be established. It would be linked to the
emergency at different levels:

    a   The rehabilitation o f infrastructure and equipment destroyed by or dilapidated
        duringthe war;
    a   The (re) construction o f houses for war affectedpopulations;
    a   The program proper, in particular the reintegration component (agriculture,
        training, etc.) but also demobilization (transport, rehabilitation, etc).

 136.   Retroactivefinancing. To facilitate speedy support to ex-combatants demobilized
as o f March 2004, the Project would allow retroactive financing inthe amount o f US$6.6
million (20% o f the IDA grant amount). This would apply to eligible imports for which

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex              37



payments were made after December 31, 2003. Retroactive financing would allow the
Government to initiate large-scale demobilization activities prior to Grant effectiveness if
necessary.

137.     Multi-donor trust fund. The Government recognizes that the MDRP trust fund
would help to ensure comprehensive financing for the Program, facilitate the involvement
o f donors that might otherwise not be able to participate, minimize duplication o f efforts,
and reduce the administrative burden on Government through the application o f one set
o f implementationprocedures. Government would thus apply to the MDTF o f the MDRP
to finance the part o fthe program not financed by the IDA Grant or bybilateral partners.

138.     The following bank accounts would be maintained bythe ESNCDRR for
program funds:

         Deposit Account: DenominatedinU S dollars, would serve as the mainproject
         account into which would be deposited program funds under the quick
         disbursement mechanism for Category (1) o fthe Grant.
0        IDA Grant Special Account: Denominated inU S dollars, would beto deposit
         program funds for Category (2) to (5) o fthe Grant.
         MDTF Special Account: Denominated inU S dollars, wouldbe deposited program
         funds from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTF).
a        Demobilization and Reintegration FundAccount(DRFA): This would be
         denominated inlocal currency. Counterpart funds from the Government o f
         Burundimaybe deposited onthis account inaccordance withprogram objectives.

139.     The Deposit Account would be maintained in BRB. The IDA Grant Special
Account, the MDTF Special Account, and the DRFA would be maintained in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA.

140.     The chart in Attachment 10 illustrates the proposed banking and funds flow
arrangements.


     5.2.2 Accounting arrangements

     Financial Management Manual

141.     For the sake o f comprehensiveness and harmonization o f procedures, Program
funds would be administered and audited irrespective o f their source and the financing
mechanism employed.

142.     The accounting system o f the project would be based on a Manual o f Financial
and Accounting Procedures that would be part o f the PIM. Proper books o f accounts
would be kept on double entry principle usingthe cash based system.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex        38


    5.2.3 ReportingArrangements

   Integrated Financial Management System

143.    For the Program to deliver on its objectives, a Financial Management System
would be developed inaccordance with the Financial Management Assessment Report
presented inthe Attachment 9. The system should integrate budgeting, operating and
accounting systems to facilitate monitoring and reporting. System generated formats for
periodic reports would be developed and agreed with program management.

    Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)

144.    Project management staff should be able to produce FMRs by effectiveness. The
report would be prepared on a quarterly basis in accordance with the Guidelines for
Borrowers on Financial MonitoringReports and would include the following:


    0   Sources andUses o f Fundsby Grant Categories andProgram Components

    0   OutputMonitoringReport

    0   Procurement MonitoringReports


    Financial Statements

145.    In compliance with International Accounting Standards and IDA requirements,
the project would produce annual financial statements. Financial Statements would
include:


    0   A Statement o f Cash Receipts and Payments which recognizes all cash receipts,
        cash payments and cash balances controlledby the project.
    0   A Balance Sheet that shows Assets and Liabilities.
    0   A Statement o f Sources andUses o fFunds.
    0   Notes in respect o f significant accounting policies and accounting standards
        adopted by management and underlyingthe preparation o f financial statements.
    0   A Management Assertion that Bank funds have been expended in accordance
        with the intendedpurposes as specified inthe World Bank legal agreement.


    5.2.4 Audit Arrangements

    External Auditing

146.    Qualified independent auditors would be appointed by the ES/NCDRR. The
selected auditors would be acceptable to IDA in terms o f independence, qualifications
and experience. The audit would be based on terms o f reference agreed with IDA. The
external audit work would include all World Bank funds, other funds and Government
funds (ifavailable) o f the program.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex          39



147.    The financial statements o f the Program would be audited every six months until
performance i s proved to be satisfactory, and annually thereafter. The date o f the first
audit would be determined inconsultation with IDA.

148.    In addition to the audit report, the auditor would be required to prepare a
Management Letter where internal control weaknesses and recommendations for
improvements, are highlighted. A single audit opinion would be issued on program
income and expenditures, special accounts and statements o f expenditure. The audit
reports along with Management Letters would be sent to IDA and all other financing
partners not later than four months after the end o f eachpreceding period.

149.    For the sake o f comprehensiveness and harmonization o f procedures, Program
funds would be administered and audited irrespective o f their source and the financing
mechanism employed.


    5.2.5 Supervision

150.    Financial Management Supervision would be done by the World Bank over the
program life to ensure the implementation o f strong financial management systems.
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) reviews would be undertaken where necessary in
compliance with World Bank requirements.

151.    On a semi-annual basis or at such time that the Government and the Bank deem
necessary, the Government and IDA would carry out joint supervision missions. These
missions would make spot checks on a small random sample o f beneficiaries at their
place o f residence to verify the use o f the funds disbursed.

    Disbursement of I D A Funds to Program Management

152.    IDA funds wouldbedisbursed to the ProgramManagement for activities basedon
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) that include financial reporting, procurement and
contract management with physical implementation progress.

153.    The Borrower would open a Deposit Account for Category 1inUS dollars inthe
BRB. Upon Grant effectiveness and at the request o f the borrower, proceeds o f the first
installment would be deposited in the accounts against Statement o f Expenditures. The
remaining installments would be released if the Program i s being implemented in a
manner satisfactory to the Association and on the basis of:


    0   An implementation plan and resource requirements for the subsequent 6 month
        period;

    0   Beneficiary survey findings confirming that ex-combatants have received
        payments due them from previous tranches; and
    0   A list o f ex-combatants, identifying the amount o f the funds allocated to each in
        support o f their reinsertion and reintegration.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        40



    Disbursementof funds from DRFA to Ex-combatants

154.    Funds would be disbursed to the DRFA to Ex-combatants through the commercial
banking system. Eligible ex-combatants would be required to open accounts in
commercial banks o f their choice. Payments would be initiated and authorized at the
central level by the ES/NCDRR.


    5.2.6 RiskAnalysis

155.    Inorder to establish anacceptable control environment and to mitigate financial
management risks, the measures outlined inthe Action Plan inAttachment 9 should be
implemented. The Program i s at highrisk untilthe FMS and other operational systems
are well defined and documented, andpersonnel are trained.

156.    Safeguards to ensure theproper use of funds. Six safeguards have been built into
the Program to ensure that IDA funds are utilized for the purposes intended:

    Replenishments under the quick-disbursing mechanism (Category (1)) would be
    linked to Programperformance;

    Periodic audits would verify appropriate use o f funds under all Categories;

    A unique, non-transferable, photograph ID would be provided to each ex-combatant.
    This wouldbe usedto verify ex-combatants' eligibility for assistance;

    The IDSwould be entered in an integrated MIS that would enable the ES/NCDRR
    and Provincial Program Offices to track Program implementation at the central and
    local level;

    Annual surveys o f a representative sample o f the beneficiary population would track
    Program delivery and verify their receipt o f assistance; and

    Semi-annual supervision missions would be carried out by IDA in collaboration with
    interested UN/donor partners.

157.    Overall assessment. A Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist has
reviewed the present status and the agreed actions indicated above and detailed in
attachment 10. On this basis, IDA has reasonable assurances for satisfactory financial
management o f Program funds in conformity with current IDA requirements. The
financial management o f the DRRP would require close follow up. To this end,
specialized Bank staff would monitor financial management performance on an ongoing
basis.


    5.3 Procurement

158.    Procurement o f goods and works to be financed from the proceeds o f the Grant
would be govemed by the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRLI Loans and IDA
Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999. Consultant services contracts financed by IDA would be

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-Technical Annex              41



procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999 and M a y 2002.

159.    In addition to the eligible private sector imports financed through the quick
disbursement component, the Grant would finance goods required for the demobilization
process, including basic needs kits, equipment to prepare ID cards and VCT materials.
The Grant would also finance office equipment and vehicles/motorcycles for the
ES/NCDRR and the PPOs, as well as the rehabilitation of, and the purchase o f essential
equipment for up to four demobilization centers and up to two medical rehabilitation
centers.


    5.3.1 Procurementcapacity assessment andimplementationarrangements

160.    Procurement activities would be handled by the central bank for the quick
disbursing component and by the ES/NCDRR for all the other components. The central
bank has efficiently executed four IDA operations with a quick disbursing component
during the last decade. Hence, the quick disbursing component should be implemented
smoothly. The ESNCDRR would handle the procurement tasks for the remaining
components, hence the ES/NCDRR would be responsible for among other things : (i)
preparation o f the General Procurement Notice and its annual update; (ii)     preparation o f
the specific procurement notices; (iii)     preparation and update o f the annual procurement
plan; (iv) drafting bidding documents and request of proposals; (v) awarding o f contracts
and requesting for IDA no-objections when required; and (v) drafting o f contracts and
ensuring that contracts are implemented and managed properly.

161.    A procurement capacity assessment o f the ES/NCDRR was carried out during
appraisal in accordance with the Procurement Policy and Service Group (OPCPR)
guidelines o f July 15, 2002 The ES/NCDRR i s a new institution with limited
procurement experience. As a result, the project i s considered high risk. While the
procurement program financed by the Grant i s not extensive, the fact that the upfront
delivery o f some goods and the completion o f rehabilitation o f some works would be
critical to the success o f the Program, means that the ESNCDRR needs to be guided and
assisted in order to fulfill its responsibilities satisfactorily. Consequently, the following
measures were agreed: (i)    recruitment o f an international procurement consultant to assist
the ESNCDRR to prepare the detailed procurement plan for the first year of operation,
the biddingdocuments for the first six months and provide onjob training to the national
procurement officer; (ii)    recruiting a consultant to prepare the Program implementation
manual (PIM); (iii)recruiting the national procurement officer before Grant
Effectiveness. These activities would be financed under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF). The adoption o f a PIM satisfactory to IDA would be a condition o f Grant
effectiveness. The international procurement consultant has been in place since
December 2003, the selection process o f the consultant who would prepare the manual is
under way, and the PIM should be available by April 2004.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Prozram - TechnicalAnnex           42


     5.3.2 Procurement plan

162.      The ESNCDRR would prepare the procurement plan for the first year o f
operation before Grant effectiveness. It would update the plan every six months for
discussion with the Bank during supervision missions. Regular Financial Monitoring
Reports would present procurement activities inan appropriate degree o f detail.


     53.3 Procurement methods14

163.      Goods imported by the private sector under Category (l), to cost less
                                                                            estimated
than US$2 million equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with
established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association.

164.      For contracts for goods estimated to cost US$ 200,000 equivalent or more, may
be awarded by International Competitive Bidding (ICB). However, given that some
goods and items are required during the first semester o f 2004, it i s unlikely that this
method would be used for goods needed before June 2004. Furthermore, since
demobilization from the NDF is expected to be implemented through a six-month cycle
and by groups not exceeding 2,000 ex-combatants, goods contracts valued more than the
above amount would be numberedand should not exceed two.

165.      Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent per contract may be
awarded by National Competitive Bidding(NCB) as described inparagraphs 3.3 and 3.4
o f the IDA procurement guidelines. Due to the urgency o f the Program, and in order to
facilitate the speedy procurement o f immediately required drugs and other critical items,
international and national shopping methods would be employed more than i s customary
in Bank financed projects. Hence, drugs, reagents, medical items and other goods
estimated to cost not exceeding the equivalent o f US$ 150,000 per contract may be
procured on the basis o f comparison o f at least three quotations at national or
international level in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f the
Guidelines. A sample format for international shopping would be included in the
Program implementationmanual.

166.      Goods including vehicles, motorcycles, computers, drugs and medical items up to
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent o f US$200,000 may be procured through
United Nations agencies (IAPSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO) in accordance with the
provisions o fparagraph 3.9 o f the guidelines.

167.      Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with
existing equipment or, are o f proprietary nature up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of U S $ 100,000 may, with IDA'Sprior agreement, be procured by direct
contracting inaccordance with the provisions o f the paragraph 3.7 o f the Guidelines.

168.      Civil works contracts would be very limited inboth number and value, hence no
I C B i s foreseen. However, ICB procedures would apply for civil works estimated to cost


l4The amounts per contract andthe aggregate amounts apply to the IDA Grant only.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex            43



the equivalent o f US$ 500,000 or more. Civil works estimated to cost between US$
100,000 and less than US$ 500,000 equivalent per contract may be awarded by National
Competitive Bidding(NCB) in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4
o fthe Guidelines.

169.    Given the urgent requirement to rehabilitate at least two demobilization centers
and up to two medical rehabilitation centers, on an exceptional basis, civil works
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured on the
basis o f quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors in response to a
written invitation. The written invitation would include a description o f the works, basic
technical specifications, completion date and if necessary the plan of the works. The
contract may be awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest quotation provided that
the bid is substantially responsive to the conditions specified in the written invitation. A
simple format o f the invitation with all the subsequent documents (instruction to bidders,
model o f contract etc.) would be included inthe Program implementationmanual.

170.    Consultants' services procured under the Grant would finance the strengthening
o f local institutions responsible for the execution o f the Program: the ES/NCDRR,
Provincial Program Offices, district administrations as well as associations and
community-based groups. The Grant would also finance technical studies in support o f
Program execution, the monitoring o f Program components, external financial audits and
external Program evaluations.

171.    All consultant services estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent per
contract would be selected using the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method.
For contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, the short list may be
comprised entirely o f national consultants provided that at least three qualified national
consultants are available. However, if foreign firms express an interest inthese contracts,
they would not be excluded from the selection process.

172.    Consultant services for training, technical advisory services and implementation
support for special groups and HIV/AIDS activities estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 equivalent for firms may be awarded through the Consultants' Qualifications
method inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraphs 3.7 of the Guidelines. Consulting
services contracts meeting the requirements o f Section V o f the Consultants Guidelines
may be selected under the provisions for the selection o f Individual Consultants, i.e.
through the comparison o f the curriculum vitae o f at least 3 qualified individuals.

173.    Contracts for consultant services for financial audits and external evaluations,
estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract, may be awarded using the
least cost selection method, in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6
o f the Bank's Guidelines for the selection o f consultants.

174.    UN agencies may be hired as consultants, where they are qualified to provide
technical assistance and advice in their area o f expertise, according to the provisions o f
paragraph 3.13 o f the Guidelines. UNagencies may be hired on a single-source selection
basis ifthe criteria outlined inSection 3.9 o f the Guidelines are fulfilled.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex     44



   5.3.4 Thresholds for prior review

175.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$150,000 or more and civil works
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$200,000 or more would be subject to
IDAprior review.

176.    For consultant services, contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of U S
US$50,000 or more for individuals and the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or more for firms
would be subject to IDA prior review procedures.

 Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                                  45




                       Table 7. ProcurementArrangements SummaryTable

I
I            Procurementcategory

 Eligible private sector importsvalued at less than     Commercialpracticesas describedunder clause3.12 of
 US$2,000,000 per contract:                             "Guidelines: procurementunder IBRD loanand IDA
                                                        Grant".

 Goodsestimatedto cost the equivalent of US $ 200,OO    IntemationalCompetitiveBidding as describedunder
 or more and civil works estimatedto costthe equivalent section 11. of "Guidelines: procurementunder IBRDloan
 of US$500,000 or more:                                 and IDA Grant" (ICB).

 Goods estimatedto cost less than the equivalent of     NationalCompetitiveBidding as describedunder
 US$200,000 andcivil works estimatedto cost more        paragraphs3.3 and3.4 of"Guidelines :Procurementunder
 than the equivalentof US$lOO,OOO andless than the      IBRD loansand IDA Grants".
 equivalent of US$500,000:

 Goodspurchasedfrom the original supplier to be         Direct contractingas describedunder paragraph3.7 o f
 compatiblewith existingequipmentor, are of             "Guidelines : Procurementunder IBRD Loans and IDA
 proprietarynature, upto an aggregate amount not        Grants".
 exceedingthe equivalent of US$100,000:

 Goods including medicalitems upto an aggregate         UNagenciesas describedunderparagraph3.9 of
 amount not exceedingthe equivalent of US$200,000 :     "Guidelines :Procurementunder IBRD Loans andIDA
                                                        Grants".

 Drugs, reagents, medical equipment and goods not       Quotations obtained from at least three qualified enterprises
 exceedingthe equivalent of US$ 150,000 per contract    as describedunderparagraphs3.5 and 3.6 of "Guidelines :
 andcivil works not exceedingthe equivalent of          Procurementunder IBRD Loans andIDA Grants".
 US$lOO,OOO per contract :
IConsultant servicesto beprocuredby firms and           Quality andcost based selection as describedunder section
 estimatedto cost the equivalent ofUS$lOO,OOO or        11.of the Guidelines"Selection andEmploymentof
 more:                                                  consultantsby World Bank Borrowers".

 Consultant servicesto beprocuredby firms andnot        Consultants' qualification selection as describedunder
 exceedingthe equivalent of US$lOO,OOO per contract :   paragraphs3.1 and3.7 ofthe Guidelines"Selection and
                                                        Employmentof consultantsby World BankBorrowers".

 Consultant serviceswhich can be conductedby an         Selection of individual consultantsas describedunder
 individual without additionaloutside professional      section V. of the Guidelines"Selection and Employmentof
 support:                                               consultantsby World Bank Borrowers".

 Consultant servicesfor financialaudits and external    Least cost selection as describedunderparagraphs3.1 and
 evaluationsnot exceedingthe equivalent of US 75,000    3.6 of the Guidelines"Selection and Employmentof
 per contract :                                         consultantsby World BankBorrowers".

 Hiring UNagencies as consultants:                      Selection according to paragraphs3.13 and3.9 of the
                                                        Guidelines"Selectionand Employmentof consultantsby
                                                        World Bank Borrowers".



 177.     All other goods, civil works and services contracts would be subject to post
 review by IDA during supervision missions and by auditors during the technical and
 financial audits.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex                46


    5.4 Monitoring and Evaluation

178.      A strong monitoring and evaluation system, complemented with close Bank
supervision, would seek to ensure that the Program reaches targeted beneficiaries in a
timely andefficient fashion. It is essential that informationon all beneficiaries is captured
during the initial demobilization process, securely stored, and subsequently utilized to
inform Program implementation.

179.      Establishment o f a Management Information System. A well-functioning MIS i s a
critical management tool, as throughout Program implementation there is a need to
register and monitor the target group beneficiaries and Program implementation progress
and effectiveness. Furthermore, a robust M I S can provide monitoring data on
beneficiaries and activities that can serve as an important input into the planning o f
subsequent demobilization phases. Additionally, and to keep track o f the utilization o f
Program funds, it would be relatedto the financial management system.

180.      Monitoring would be undertaken at central (ES/NCDRR), provincial (PPOs) and
the commune (COOS) levels. The Monitoring and Evaluation unit o f the ES/NCDRR
would collect information during demobilization operations, when ex-combatants report
for TSA payments and when ex-combatants apply for reintegration assistance. The
ES/NCDRR would track the provision o f assistance to the ex-combatants throughout the
life o f the Program. Inaddition, within six months o f the Effectiveness date and annually
thereafter, or upon the request o f the Association, surveys o f a statistically representative
sample o f Program beneficiaries would be conducted to verify that they (i)      have received
reinsertion and reintegration benefits in accordance with the semi-annual work program
and budget o fthe Program, and (ii)     have acquired the goods and services intended.

181. Evaluation. Independent evaluations o f Program implementation would be carried
out annually and would consist o f quantitative and qualitative parts. An analysis o f the
databases and existing administrative records andreports would establish to what extent the
Program as such as well as the individual components have achieved their objectives. As
the integration o f ex-combatants into communities i s a major factor for the long-term
success o f the Program, the statistical evaluation would be complemented with a
beneficiary assessment consisting o f participant observation and key informant and focal
group interviews. It would be directed towards the ex-combatants and their families as
primary and the communities as secondary beneficiaries.

182.     Performance indicators. The ES/NCDRR and Provincial Program Offices would
measure Program performance against the agreed performance indicators specified below
(see Table 8).

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                       47



                            Table 8. Key PerformanceIndicators


 Component                                    Key PerformanceIndicator

                         Ex-combatants from the APPM, FAB and NDF are demobilized inaccordance
                         with the criteria andprocedures set out inthe Programimplementation manual.
                         A t least 14,000 ex-combatants are demobilized annually.
Demobilization           All ex-combatants are registered, receivenon-transferable IDcards andtheir
                         data i s captured inthe MIS.
                         The demobilization process does not, on average, exceed 10 days per individual
                         ex-combatant.

                         Eachdemobilized ex-combatant has receivedhislher TSA within 30 days o f
Reinsertion              scheduled payment dates.
                         TSA payments are utilized for reinsertion needs o f family units.

                         Ex-combatants have access to reintegration assistance within 9 months o ftheir
                         demobilization.
                         A t least 40% o f ex-combatants are engaged insustainable income-generating
Reintegration            activities within 18 months o f demobilization.
                         Average income levels o f ex-combatants are similar to average community
                         incomes intheir communities of settlement within 24 months o f their
                         demobilization.

                         All demobilized female ex-combatants have receivedreinsertion and
                         reintegrationbenefits under the Programinthe same amount and according to
                         the same procedures as demobilized male ex-combatants.
Special target           Each demobilized disabled ex-combatant has received medical rehabilitation
groups                   assistancewithin 18 months o f demobilization.
                         Eachdemobilized child ex-combatant has received targeted reintegration
                         assistancewithin 12 months o f demobilization.

                         17 Provincial ProgramOffices are operational withm 6 months o f Grant
                         effectiveness inaccordance with criteria set forth inthe Program
Implementation           implementation manual.
arrangements
                         An independentevaluationis carried out annually and includes an analysis o f
                         environmental and social monitoring indicators.

                         Recurrent expenditures on defense are a maximumo f FBU49.4 billion in2005,
Public                   FBU36.1 billion in2006 andFBU23.8 billion in2007. At the same time,
expenditures             expenditures on health and educationcombined increase by FBU6.7 billion in
                         2006 and FBU 19 billion in2007.




    5.5 ProgramSustainability

183.     The DRRP is designed to aid the sustainable social and economic reintegration o f
ex-combatants. In this regard, it would make a positive contribution to the socio-
economic status o f ex-combatants, their families and their communities o f settlement.
The Program would also foster micro-economic recovery by transforming ex-combatants
into positive economic actors and injecting financial resources at the local level.
Furthermore, the Program would encourage national reconciliation. Although the

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex             48



NCDRR itself i s a temporary structure, the Program would strengthen Government
capacities at the provincial level for developing, managing and monitoring development
interventions.



     6, Benefitsand Risks


     6.1 Benefits

184.     The Program would enable the Government to consolidate the peace process, its
social and economic recovery efforts. The Program i s designed to facilitate and expedite
the process o f returning about 55,000 ex-combatants and 30,000 militia to productive
social and economic life. Increased security following the first stage o f the disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration process should contribute to a return to normalcy in
agricultural activities and livestock husbandry, ease transport constraints and provide an
enabling environment for the return o f displaced populations, elections and social
investments. In addition, the return o f such a large percentage o f the labor force to the
labor market is expected to inject significant human resources into the civilian economy.

185.     A secondary benefit would be the freeing up o f resources currently allocated to
the defense and security sectors, and their reallocation towards social and economic
sectors. Such public expenditure restructuring would allow Government to restore
expenditure levels inthe social sectors in line with its poverty reduction strategy.

186.     At the recent Brussels partner conference on Burundi, donors pledged over one
billion dollars to assist the country. Although previous pledges (Paris 2000; Geneva, 2001
and 2002) did not result in commensurate financial assistance - partly because o f
perceived lack o fprogress on the peace and reconciliation agenda and security concerns -
it i s anticipated that the current positive political momentum, aided by successful
implementation o f the proposedDRRP,would contribute to a resumption o f development
assistance.


     6.2 Risks and Mitigation Measures

187.     Program external risks. There are four significant external risks:

     (i)    A failure to implement the political and security aspects o fthe Arusha Accord
             and the subsequent cease-fire agreements and protocols, especially the
             sensitive military integration process, could undermine the DRRP. Even if
             large-scale violent conflict did not resume, delays in the implementation of
            these provisions o f the agreements might delay Program implementation;

     (ii) notwithstanding the recently initiated dialogue, potential delays in the
            conclusion o f a cease-fire    between Government and the FNL-PALIPEHUTU
            (Rwasa) and its entry into the institutions o f Government and the state may

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                  49



             lead to continued violent conflict between the Government and this party, and
             delay full implementationo fthe DRRP; and

   (iii)     the support o f AMIB is critical to the disarmament phase. A failure to finance
             the AMIB, or to transfer its responsibilitiesto a UNpeacekeeping operationin
             a timely and operationally coherent manner,                 could jeopardize      the
             implementation o f the Program.

188.     These external risks are mitigated by several factors:

   (i)       First, the integration o fthree o f the parties into state institutions has increased
             their stake inthe consolidation o f the peace;

   (ii) the Forces Technical Agreement (FTA) provides a framework for the
             integration o f combatants o fthe CNDD-FDD (Nkurunziza) into the NDF;

   (iii)     the JCC, which serves as a forum to resolve issues o f friction and to build
             confidence among all the signatories o f the Arusha Accord, i s fully
             functioning;

   (iv)      the full deployment o f AMIB helps to provide confidence in the security
             aspects o f the process and serves as a deterrent for renewed efforts to
             destabilize the Government. Recent initiatives, mentioned before, in which
             senior officers o f the FAB and (former) APPMs participate injoint leadership
             training, i s also contributing to increased trust and confidence between the
             parties;

   (v)       recent high-level meetings between the Government and the FNL-
             PALIPEHUTU (Rwasa) are leading towards the initiation o f a formal
             negotiationprocess; and

   (vi)      the Government's preparation o f the DRRP provides an indication o f its
             commitment to the implementation o f the peace process and to defense and
             security sector reform, and initself serves as an important confidence-building
             measure.

189.     In the event of a collapse of the overall peace process and resumption of
hostilities, IDA would consider exercising its remedies under the legal agreement.

190.     The major Program-specific risks andmitigation measures are as follows:

(i) Program resources would possibly be diverted toward military spending.
         Appropriate safeguards with respect to financial management, procurement and
         disbursement have been put in place to avoid any such misuse o f Program
         resources;

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintewation Program - Technical Annex               50



(ii)    Savings from the downsizing o f the NDF do not translate into increased spending
        inthe health and education sectors. Government expenditures would be carefully
        monitored by IDA inthe context o f its overall assistanceprogram;

(iii)   Given the limited human resource capacity in Burundi's public and private
        sectors, implementation is unsatisfactory. The Program would carefully monitor
        implementation progress and actual reintegration experiences o f ex-combatants.
        The ES/NCDRR would be reinforced with additional qualified staff and technical
        assistance as required; and


(iv)    HIV/AIDS spreads via the ex-combatants demobilized under the DRRP. The
        HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures included in the Program's design
        would mitigate this risk significantly.


    6.3 Environmentaland Social Aspects

191.    Building on lessons from reintegration programs for displaced persons and ex-
combatants in Burundi and elsewhere, the Program contains a number o f specific
elements to identify social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation
measures. These procedures and measures would be based upon a social and
environmental framework developed for the Multi-Country Demobilization and
Reintegration Program (MDRP) by the Africa Region's Social and Environmental
Safeguards unit (ASPEN) in collaboration with the MDRP Secretariat. Relevant
procedures and measures would be detailed in the Program implementation manual (see
Attachment 8 for a detailed description o f social and environmental management
arrangements). Measures aimed at mitigating negative social impacts o f the Program
include: (i)ensuring that there i s no involuntary resettlement or displacement and that
Batwa ex-combatants have equal access to the Program's benefits; (ii)carrying out
specific social reintegration activities and monitoring; (iii)   addressing the needs o f female
ex-combatants and o f partners o f ex-combatants; and (iv) carrying out activities targeted
at child ex-combatants.

192.    The Program is classified as environmental category B, as it includes support to
income-generating activities. However, the phased and widely dispersed reintegration o f
55,000 ex-combatants into civilian life is expected to be environmentally neutral.
Furthermore, the Program would not finance the construction or rehabilitation o f
infrastructure other than the rehabilitation o f up to four demobilization centers and two
medical rehabilitation centers. Environmental mitigation measures under the Program
include the screening and monitoring o f sub-projects financed under the reintegration
component for environmental impact according to the procedures, acceptable to IDA, set
up for the MDRP. Furthermore, adequate arrangements for medical waste disposal o f
HIV/AIDS testing materials would be included inthe Program implementation manual.

193.    The DRRPwould seek to promote participatory social and environmental
monitoring. Annual evaluations would include an assessment of, among others: the
procedures to access land; the occurrence o f involuntary displacement or resettlement;
the degree o f community acceptance; the existence o f discrimination on the basis o f

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                           51



gender or previous military affiliation; the levelofpersonal security of ex-combatants;
the inclusion o f Batwa ex-combatants inthe program's activities; the level o f criminal
activities undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact o freintegration on an ex-
combatant's family members. These evaluations would help to identify social and
environmental impacts, determine the appropriateness of procedures andprocesses, and
make recommendations for improvementswhere necessary.


     7. Financial and Economic Justification

194.     Macro-economic context. An analysis of defense expenditure inrelation to key
economic and financial data permits an assessment ofthe potential long-term impact o f
military downsizing on social and economic development. Four main sources have been
used: (i)  GDP and other macroeconomic data from the IMFfor 2000 to 2003, with
projections for 2004 - 2006; (ii) FAB salary structure; (iii) on expenditure from
                                         the                              data
the Ministryo f Finance; and (iv) data provided by Government inthe Letter o f
Demobilization Policy.

195.      Analysis of defense expenditure. From 1992 to 2001, defense expenditure
increased from 3.5% of GDP to 8.0%. Nominal defense expenditure increased from FBU
30.5 billion in 1999 to FBU45.6.3 billionin2002.

             Table9. GovernmentExpenditure(inbillionsFBUand percent)




Source. IMF and Governmentfor data up to 2003. IMF and Government estimatesandprojections for the period 2004-
2007. Staffand Governmentestimatesandprojectionsfor 2007

il Socialsectors includeexpenditure for healthandeducation.

196.      Impact of Demobilization. The analysis of the impact of demobilization i s based
on several assumptions, and i s therefore only indicative. l5           Although 55,000 combatants
would be demobilized under the DREW, the calculation of the Program's fiscal impact i s
based on the plannednet reduction inforce o f the NDF o f 20,000 from the current size o f
the FAB.


  The following assumptions are used: (i)integration of APPMs into the national defense force, increasing
its size from 45,000 in 2003 to 66,000 in 2004; (ii) demobilization o f 5,000 FAB soldiers in 2004,
                                                         the
14,000 NDF soldiers in2005, 14,000 NDF soldiers in2006, and 13,000 NDF soldiers in2007; and (iii)         the
reallocation o f 100% o fbudgetary savings to social sectors.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                      52



197.    With demobilization completed during 2007, the net reduction in force of 20,000
NDF soldiers would reduce defense expenditure by approximately FBU 22 billion
(US$19.9 million) annually over the 2003 budget. The share o f defense expenditure in
total current expenditure would decrease from 31.7% in 2003 to 13.5% in 2007. The
share o f defense expenditure in GDP would decrease from 7.1% to 2.6% over the same
period. Concomitantly, social sector expenditures would almost double.

198.    Analysis of alternatives. The Government's proposal, and the IDA appraisal o f it,
have taken into consideration various alternatives in the design o f the DRRP. The final
design i s based on best practices and responds to the specific requirements o f the
situation inBurundi. It pursues a gradual approach to demobilization and reintegration as
compared to a simple one-off discharge. The political and security requirements
stipulated in the h s h a Agreement (August 2000) and the Forces Technical Agreement
(November 2003), the stabilization o f the country before and during elections, the need
for a structured defense and security sector reform process, and the difficulty o f economic
reintegration in the immediate post-war period were judged to justify the related short-
term defense expenditure costs.

199.    The Program tries to support the reintegration o f ex-combatants into civilian life
by providing a transitional safety net to facilitate the re-establishment o f households and
to avoid social tensions. The Program's design attempts to minimize interference with
market forces and to maximize the choice o f the individual and synergies with ongoing
interventions. Furthermore, economic reintegration measures would be based on the
socio-economic profile o f the ex-combatants, their own efforts and aspirations, and the
specific opportunity structure intheir communities o f retum.

200.    Cost-effectiveness analysis. The Program design seeks to minimize costs without
compromising quality. Whenever possible, existing structures would be used rather than
parallel systems created. For example, with respect to the disbursement mechanisms,
transitional safety net allowance payments would be effected directly by the ES/NCDRR
through participating banks. With overall per capita costs o f US$1,325 equivalent, the
costs o f the DRRPare within the range established by the MDRP framework.

201.    Cost-benefit analysis. It i s instructive to compare the total cost o f the Program
US$84.4 million with the direct savings in recurrent cost to the Government's budget
from the medium-term net reduction in force o f 20,000 soldiers. Compared to the
counterfactual, the reduction in force o f the NDF would save approximately US$40
million during the Program's duration and US$22 million annually thereafter.                 l6Fiscal
savings from demobilization would thus exceed Program costs in 8 years. This
calculation does not take into account long-term savings in overhead costs to the NDF,
including training and maintenance o f material. It also does not take into account the
budgetary impact o f a planned increased in the size o f the national police force. Finally,
this simple comparison does not take into account productivity gains and benefits to the
communities and households o f the ex-combatants' retum to civilian life.



l6The counterfactual would be that the share o f military expenditure in Government current expenditure
remains constant at 32%.

 Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                53



     8. Action Plan


                           Issue                            Action/ Responsi
IDemobilization
 1. Prepare logistics plan for demobilization               JOC and ESINCDRR         I   28Feb04

 2.  Complete rehabilitation o f demobilization centers     Contractor and ESINCDRR      31 Mar04

 3.  Initiate disarmament o f Gardiens de la Paix and       Government                  18 April 04
      Combattants Militants
I4.  Initiate demobilization o f FAB and APPMs              ES/NCDRR, AMIB, JOC and     30 April 04
                                                            JLTs
I5.  Complete stage Io f DRRP demobilization                ESINCDRR, JLTs and AMIB     31 Oct. 04
IReinsertion
r6. Develop payment mechanismand accounting                 ESINCDRR                   31 March 04
     procedures

 7.   Sign contract with participating banks                ESINCDRRandBanks           3lMarch 04


IReintegration

 8.   Establishcoordination mechanisms with MNRRR,          ESINCDRR                   31March04
I    CNRS and other partners

 9. Prepare provincial inventories o f economic             PPOs and ESBCDRR         I    2 July04
      opportunities

 Special target groups

  10. Establishjoint planwith National AIDS Program         ESINCDRR andNational       31 March 04
      regardingthe provisiono f social and medical          AIDS Secretariat
      assistance to HIV/AIDS affected ex-combatants

  11. Initiate special medical rehabilitation assistancefor Ministry ofHealthI       I
      disabled ex-combatants                                Consultant                    30Ju1y04

  12. Integrate national Child Soldier Demobilization and   ESINCDRR and                31 Dec. 04
      Reintegration Special Project into nationalprogram

 Institutional arrangements
I 13. Finalize procurement plan                             ESINCDRR                 I   28Feb04
I 14. Finalize Program implementation manual                ES/NCDRR and consultant  I 18 March04

 15. EstablishDRFA                                          ESINCDRR and Central Bank  18 March04

  16. Pass decree on definition o f ex-combatant status     GOB                        18 March04
      and associatedcriteria

 17. Pass ministerial order defining status o f Gardiens    GOB                        18 March04
      de la Paix and Combattant Militants and associated
      criteria
~                                                                                                ~



  18. Set up financial management system                    ES/NCDRR and consultant    31 March 04

  19. Procure essential equipment                           ESINCDRR                   31 March 04

 Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex              54



 20. Set up management informationsystem                 ES/NCDRR                   15 April 04

 21. Establish Provincial Program Offices                ESNCDRR                   31 March 04

 Financing                                              I
~~



 22. IDA Board Review o f DRRP                           IDA                       18 March 04

 23. IDA Grant Effectiveness                             IDA                               After
                                                                                  completion o f
                                                                                   conditions o f
                                                                                   Effectiveness

  24. Conclusion o f Grant Agreement for MDTFof          IDA andGOB                 30 April 04
     MDRP

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex    55




   9. Attachments

   1.           List of Documents inthe Project File

   2.           Estimated Program Costs

   3.           IDADisbursementCategories

   4.           ProgramBeneficiaries

   5.           A Comparison ofTransitional Safety Nets

   6.           Organigram

   7.           Positive List of Imports for Category 1

   8.           Environmental and Social Monitoring

   9.           Program Implementation Plan

    10.         Financial ManagementAssessment

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex       56


                                         Attachment 1

                            List of Documentsin Project File



A. Peace andCease-fireAgreements

1. Arusha Peace andReconciliation Agreement.August 2000.

2. Government o f BurundiandCNDD-FDD (Nkurunziza). The Pretoria Protocol on
   Political, Defense and Security Power-sharing inBurundi.October 2002.

3. Government of Burundi andCNDD-FDD (Nkurunziza). Comprehensive Cease-fire
   Agreement. November 2003.



B. Government

1. Ministryof Finance.November 2003. InterimPoverty Reduction StrategyPaper.

2. Ministryof Finance. February 2004. Letter confirmingwaiver o ftaxes on all goods
   andservices purchasedunder the DRRP.

3. MinistryofFinance. February2004. Letter of DemobilizationPolicy.

4. National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion andReintegration. January
   2004. Demobilization andReintegration Program.



C. BankStaffAssessments

1.      Aide-Mtmoire, Identificationo fthe DRRP,March 2003.

2.      Aide-Mtmoire, Preparationo fthe DRRP, May2003.

3.      Aide-MCmoire, Pre-appraisal of the DRRP, September2003.

4.      Aide-Mtmoire, Appraisal of the DRRP, December2003.
5.      Transitional Support Strategy. February2002.



D.Other

1. Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner andIngoWiederhofer. 2002. Disarmament,
   Demobilization, and the Social and Economic Reintegration of Ex-Combatants:

,  Lessonsand Liabilities inState Transition.

2. Colletta, Nat J., MarkusKostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996a. The Transition from
   War to Peace inSub-SaharanAfrica. Directions inDevelopment. Washington, DC:
   World Bank.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-TechnicalAnnex        57


3. Colletta, Nat J., MarkusKostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996b.Case Studies inWar-
   to-Peace Transition. The Demobilization andReintegration o fEx-Combatants in
   Ethiopia, Namibia, andUganda.Discussion PaperNo. 331. Washington, DC: World
   Bank.

4. De Watteville, Nathalie. 2001. Addressing Gender Issues inDemobilization and
   Reintegration Programs. Africa Region Working Paper Series.
5. Technical Working Group. February 2004. Joint OperationsPlan.
6. Kostner, Markus.2001. A Technical Note on the Design andProvision o f
   Transitional Safety Nets for Demobilization andReintegration Programs. The World
   Bank.
7. Kreimer, Alcira, John Eriksson, Robert Muscat, Margaret Arnold, andColin Scott.
   1998. The WorldBank's Experiencewith Post-conflict Reconstruction. Operations
   and Evaluation Department.Washington, DC: World Bank.

8. MDRP Joint Supervision Mission Report. October 2002. MDRP Secretariat.

9. MDRP Joint Supervision Mission Report. October 2003. MDRP Secretariat.

10.UNAIDS. 1998.AIDS and the Military.Best Practice Collection. UNAIDS.

11.Verhey, Beth.2001. Child Soldiers: Preventing, Demobilizing, Reintegrating. Africa
   Region Working PaperNo. 23.

12.World Bank. 2002. Greater Great Lakes Regional Strategy for Demobilization and
   Reintegration. Washington DC. World Bank


Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-Technical Annex                 59


                                            'Attachment3

                                  IDA Disbursement Categories
                                                   (US$)

            Category                    Amount of the Grant           YOof Expendituresto be
                                              Allocated                      Finance
 (1) Eligible Imports required                                      100%
 for the Project as specified in
 Annex to this Schedule
             (a)                              10,000,000
             fb)                              10.000.000

             (C)                              6,000,000
 (2) Civil Works                              1,000,000             100%
 (3) Vehicles, Furniture,                      1,000,000            100%
 Equipment and Materials
 (4) Consultants' Services,                   2,000,000             100%
 Training and Audits
 (5) Operating Costs                           1,000,000            100%
 (6) Refunding o f the Project                  596,000
 Preparation Advance
 (7) Unallocated                               1,404,000

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                 60


                                  BurundiAttachment 4
                                              DRRP Beneficiaries


-              Target Groups                    Demobilization    Reinsertion   Reintegration


          FAB&APPMs        I                              14,000 I      14,000 I      13,1000


                             Ofwhich adult                 9,000          9,000         8,100

                             Of which children             5,000          5,000         5,000
Phase I   Gardien de la
          Paix and                                        30,000        30,000          3,000
          Combattants
         militants

                            Of which adult                27,000        27,000              0
                           I Of which children 1           3,000 1        3,000I        3,000
                           I                   I                 I             I
 Phase   NDF                                              41,000        41,000         36,900

 I1                          Of which adult               41,000        41,000
                             Of which children                 0              0             0

3
v)




      \
      Ir,
      \
      9
      0
      m
      d

r

I
r

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program-Technical Annex    63


                                            Attachment 7


  Classes of Eligible Importsto be Financed Underthe IDA Grant (Category 1)


1.      Agricultural equipment and inputs.

2.      Petroleum and fuel products.

3.      Constmction materials.

4.      Transport vehicles and spare parts.

5.      Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies.

6.      School supplies and equipment.

7.      Medical supplies and equipment.

8.      Constructionequipment, industrial machinery and spare parts.

9.      Electrical equipment, machinery, materials andparts.

10.     Industrialraw materials andchemicals.




                                                    63

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                   64


                                            Attachment 8

                 Social and EnvironmentalSafeguardArrangements


The BurundiDemobilization, Reinsertionand ReintegrationProgram (DRRP)aims to
demobilize a large number o f ex-combatants and support their reintegration into civilian life.
To enhance the chance o f success, the DRRPneeds to address a range o f social and
environmental issues effectively. To this end, six months within Grant Effectiveness, a Social
Assessment including an Environmental and Social Management Framework will be prepared
and disclosed. Its purpose will be to identifypotential social and environmental impacts,
summarize the social and environmental mitigation measures implemented under the
Program, outline targetedmonitoring and evaluation activities, and propose institutional
capacity buildingactivities.

1.      Social and Environmental Dimensions

1.1     Successful long-term reintegration o f ex-combatants can make a major contribution to
conflict resolution and the restoration o f social capital, while failure to achieve reintegration
can leadto crime and insecurity and also increase the risk o f resumed conflict. Reintegration
takes place at the community level, and the perceptions, attitudes and organizational capacity
o f communities to receive and support ex-combatants become a major factor for determining
the success or failure o f a demobilization and reintegrationprogram.

1.2     Ex-combatants may face profound social reintegration problems. There may be a
generalized fear that ex-combatants are merely conveyers o f violence, crime and sexually
transmitted diseases. Communities may then resent support provided to what is perceived as
an overly privileged group. Ex-combatants may be discriminated against on the basis o f
previous military affiliation. Their personal security may be at risk, especially ifthey
committed atrocities inthe communities to which they return.

1.3     Female ex-combatants who have become accustomed to a more independent way o f
life inthe militarymay struggle to adapt to the expectations o f traditional communities.
Femalepartnerso f ex-combatants and their children who migrate to communities o f other
ethnic, linguistic andor cultural backgrounds may be rejected. Last but not least, the years o f
development children lose to military life profoundly affect their fiture identity.

1.4     Ex-combatants may also exert pressure on the natural resource base, especially in
communities with highpopulation densities. Community members may be involuntarily
displaced or ex-combatants involuntarily resettled to communities that are not o f their choice.
Traditional tenure arrangements may bar female ex-combatants from,access to land. Ex-
combatants may start income-generating activities that, ifuncontrolled, may lead to
overgrazing, deforestation or improper waste management.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                65


2.       Social and Environmental Management Arrangements

2.1      Buildingon lessons from reintegrationprograms for displaced persons and ex-
combatants inBurundiand elsewhere, the Programcontains a number o f specific elements to
identify social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation measures. These
procedures and measures will be based upon a social and environmental framework
developed for the Multi-Country Demobilization and ReintegrationProgram (MDRP)bythe
Africa Region's Social and Environmental Safeguards unit (ASPEN) incollaboration with the
MDRPSecretariat. They willbedescribed indetail inthe Program ImplementationManual.

2.2     Access to land. The program would seek to facilitate access o f ex-combatants to land
inareaso freturninaccordance with local landtenure systems andwith support from local
authorities. The following principles would be applied: (i)       the programwould not bear the
cost o f land acquisition; (ii) ex-combatants will be free to settle inthe community o ftheir
choice; (iii)no citizen would be compelled to cede any land to an ex-combatant; (iv) thus
there would be no involuntary displacement o f civilians as a result of ex-combatants settling
ina community.

2.4      Social reintegration. The principle objective o fthe social reintegration assistance
would be to ease the retum o f ex-combatants into civilian life while promoting reconciliation
and harmony. Given that a significant proportion o fthe target group would have spent a
significant period of time inmilitary service, many have only knownwar intheir adult life.
This fact, coupledwith the`lack o fprevious work experience and low educational levels o f
many o f the former soldiers, will require social support following their return to communities.

2.5      Facilitators working with ex-combatants would undertake activities to promote the
social reintegration process, including:


    (i)     Community level sensitization and confidence buildingprograms;
    (ii)    Assessments o f community perceptions o f ex-combatants and ex-combatants'
            perceptions o f communities; Awareness-raising programs focused on civic rights
            and responsibilities;
    (iii)   Information and counseling on sexually transmitted infections (STIs), HIV/AIDS,
            health and sanitation;
    (iv)    Media campaigns through radio, posters, pamphlets and print media;
    (v)     Conflict analysis and reconciliation activities inareas o freal or potential tension to
            develop concrete interventions to diffuse potential conflict; and
    (vi)    Community activities (cultural, sporting events or work projects) which promote
            social cohesion and help to rebuildsocial capital inreturn communities.

2.7      Gender. While it appears unlikelythat the number o f female ex-combatants to be
demobilized will be sizeable, the DRRPwould provide targeted support for the social and
economic reintegration o f female ex-combatants. Specific measures would include the
following:

    (i)     Provision o f information and training to Joint Liaison Teams andAMIB
            concerning the eligibility o f female ex-combatants for DRRP assistance;

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                                 66


    (ii) SensitizationofAPPMsinpre-disarmamentassemblyareasabouttheeligibilityof
              female ex-combatants for DRRP assistance;

    (iii) ensuringthatallbenefitsforex-combatantsareequalforandequallyaccessibleto
              men andwomen;

    (iv)      encouraging implementing partners to ensure that their reintegration support
              activities facilitate the participation o f female ex-combatants;

    (VI       encouraging female ex-combatants to participate inexisting women's associations;

    (4        including partnerso f ex-combatants and women incommunities o freturn in
              community-level counseling activities;

    (vii)     strengthening the gender awareness and capacity o f the staff o f the ES/NCDRR
              and authorities o f the communities to which a significant number o f female ex-
              combatants may return; and                           -
    (viii) monitoring the impact ofthe Programon partners of ex-combatants andwomen in
              communities o f returnandbringingemerging problems to the attention o f the
              relevant authorities.


2.8     Disabled ex-combatants.' To date, only limitedmedical and economic assistance has
beenprovided to disabled ex-combatants. The DRRPwould provide assistance for medical
rehabilitation depending onthe degree o f disability, and including the provision o fphysical
rehabilitation assistance (prosthesis and orthesis), counseling, vocational training and/or
support for micro-enterprise activities. Furthermore, the DRRPwould seek to reinforce key
medical facilities (such as the provincial orthopedic workshops inor near areas o f return) to
provide systematic prosthetic and physiotherapy services, including maintenance o fprosthetic
devices, to ex-combatants.

2.11     Under age ex-combatants.Inclose coordination with the National Child Soldier
Demobilization and ReintegrationProject andUNICEF, the DRRPwill support assistance to
underage soldiers and other minors associated with both armed forces inaccordance with the
Cape Town Principle definition o f "child soldiers". Assistance for the reintegration o f child
soldiers would include family tracing and unification, trauma counseling andpsycho-social
care, and facilitation o f access to education and recreation incommunities o f settlement.
Children older than 15 years may have different needs and would receive appropriate support
(e.g., for vocational training).

2.12     Environmental classzjkation. The program is classified as environmental category B,
although the phased and widely dispersed reintegration o f 55,000 ex-combatants into civilian
life over a period o f four years i s expected to be environmentally neutral. Furthermore, the
program will not finance the construction or rehabilitation o f infrastructureother thanthe


` Disabilityi s defined as functional limitation within an individual causedby physical, mental or sensory
impairment. Ifthe pattern o f disability among ex-combatants follows national averages, about three infive
disabled soldiers are likely to have traumatic injuries resultinginloss o f limbthrough amputation (due to war,
landmines, or accident) and about two infive disability originating from disease and resulting inloss of a bodily
fimction (e.g. deafness, blindness, paralysis due to poliomyelitis

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                  67


possible small-scale rehabilitation o f certainmedicalrehabilitation centers and
Demobilization Centers. Environmental mitigationmeasures under the program include the
screening and monitoring o f sub-projects financed under the reintegration component for
environmental impact according to the procedures, acceptable to IDA, set up by the
Government.

2.13    Environmental screening. The DRFSmay provide reintegration support to ex-
combatants inthe form o f sub-projects inthe areas o f agricultural activities, community
works, training, and promotion of income-generating activities. Community works activities
and income-generating activities would be screened for environmental impact using screening
mechanisms developed for the MDRP.The objective o f environmental screening would be to
minimize the negative environmental impacts o fthe Program. The screening procedures will
betailored to the small-scale nature of community works andincome-generating activities,
examining the potential for impacts and identifyingany mitigation measures. The focus o f the
screening would be on the following issues: health, water and sanitation, natural resource
exploitation, erosion, pesticide use and any other safeguard-related issue. The screening will
also assess the potential environmental impact o f community works and income-generating
activities on neighboring communities. Incase o f wider negative environmental impact,
actions would be agreed upon with the relevant local administrations.

3.      Social and Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation

3.1     The DRRPwill seek to promoteparticipatorysocial and environmental monitoring.
Annual evaluations would include an assessment of, among other things: the procedures
governing access to land; the occurrence of involuntary displacement or resettlement; the
degree o fcommunity acceptance; the existence o f discrimination on the basis o f gender or
previous military affiliation; the level of personal security o f ex-combatants; the level o f
criminal activities undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact on an ex-combatant's family
members. The evaluations would help to identify social and environmental impact, determine
the appropriateness o fprocedures andprocesses, and make recommendations for
improvementswhere necessary.

3.2     Social assessment. Shortly after Grant effectiveness andbuildingonrelevant
preparatory activities (preparation of the sensitization program and o f the pre-discharge
orientation), a social assessment will be undertaken andwill include the following:

    (i) Astakeholderanalysis;
    (ii) Aninstitutionalcapacitydiagnostic;

    (iii)   The development o f apublic consultationmechanism as part o fthe DRRP's
            sensitization program; and

    (iv)    The design o f a participatory monitoring and evaluation framework.

3.3     The social assessment will help identify the social and cultural structure o f incentives
and constraints that guide and govem behavior with respect to buildingsocial cohesion and
promoting the sustainable use o f natural resources. Furthermore, it will help determine the
relevant social indicators for participatory monitoring, including on the social exclusion o f

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                68


returningex-combatants. Also, attention will be paid to returningBatwaex-combatants in
project areas.

3.4     Information will be distributedhorizontally (especially important for the beneficiaries
and ingeneral for sake o ftransparency) and vertically inthe management structure o fthe
Program. Information will be readily available for assembly and analysis into periodic
monitoring and evaluation reports. The Program's computerized Management Information
System is built around these parameters.

3.5     Independent evaluations. A special Program element would be annual evaluations o f
environmental and social indicators as part o f the annual Program evaluationundertaken by
independent consultants. These evaluations would include a beneficiary assessment and a
review o f Program achievements. The issues to be addressed would include, among other
things: the procedures governing accessto land; the occurrence o finvoluntary displacement
or resettlement; the degree o f community acceptance; the existence o f discrimination on the
basis o f gender or previous military affiliation; the level o fpersonal security o f ex-
combatants; the level o f criminal activities undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact on
an ex-combatant's family members. The evaluations would help to identifysocial and
environmental impacts, determine the appropriateness o fproceduyes andprocesses, and make
recommendations for improvementswhere necessary.

3.6     The monitoring and evaluation system i s designed insuch a way that the regular
review o f social and environmental aspects is part andparcel o f Programimplementation, and
that mitigation measures would be initiated quickly as needed.

-r-
   !




        m
        W

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex             70


                                           Attachment 10

                             Financial Management and Auditing



A. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

ProgramManagementStructure

The main implementing agency for the program will be the Ministry o f Finance while the
Ministryo fDefense will provide logistical assistanceinthe demobilization phase.

Central level
The National Commission for Demobilization Reinsertion and Reintegration (NCDRR) will
be the Government's supervisory body. The Commission will advise the Government on
matters conceming the demobilization and reintegration o f ex-combatants.

The overall coordination o f the Program will be under the responsibility o f the Executive
Secretariat, which will be headed by an Executive Secretary. H e will be assisted bythree head
o f departments including the Director o f Administration and Finance, the Director o f
Operations and the Director of Information Systems, as well as a Procurement Specialist.
There would be a clear division o f labor between the commissioners and the Executive
Secretariat.

Provincial level
The NCDRR will establish a decentralized presence at the provincial level to help administer
reinsertion and reintegration assistance. Provinces in which a significant number ex-
combatants settle, a fully-fledged Provincial Program office will be established. Inthose with
fewer ex-combatants, an assistant program officer would be attached to the local
administration.



Planning,Budgeting& BudgetaryControl

The project will ensure the existence o f suitable work plans. Planning will be done within the
guidelines issued in the Program Implementation Manual to be adopted prior to project
effectiveness.

A well definedbudgeting and budgetary control system will be put inplace. Annual budgets
will be prepared based on specific guidelines contained inthe project implementationmanual
and on annual work plans. The Technical Annex and the Program Implementation Manual
will include a disbursement schedule. They will be used as the basis for the preparation o f
annual budgets.The planwill be updated as part o fproject implementation.




                                                    70

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                71


The budget format will be based on program components and will be integrated into the
program accounting system. The budget will be used as a management tool. Expenditureswill
be authorized inaccordance with agreed budgets.



Accounting System

Financial Management Manual

The accounting system o f the project will be based on well documented Manual o f Financial
and Accounting Procedures. Proper books o f accounts will be kept on double entry principle
usingthe cashbased system.

Written job descriptions with defined duties, responsibilities, lines o f supervision and
approval limits will be established. Definitiono f responsibilities should ensure segregation o f
duties for proper accountability.

Staff and Transaction Recording

The program will be under the responsibility o f the Executive Secretary who reports to the
Commission. He will be assisted by a Chief Financial Officer(CFO), a Chief Operations
Officer, a Procurement Specialist and a Chief Information Officer. An accounting unit will be
created for program activities under the control o f the CFO.

Thus, the accounting system should allow for the proper recording o f program financial
transactions, including the allocation o f expenditures in accordance with the respective
components, disbursement categories and sources o f funds. Controls over the preparation and
approval o f transactions should be put in place to ensure that all transactions are correctly
made, recordedandreported.

A well defined chart of accounts will be put in place. The chart o f accounts should be
developed in a way that allows project costs to be directly related to specific work activities
and outputs o f the project.

The accounting system will be managed through an accounting software. This should
facilitate the production o f the required program financial reports. Accounting staff will be
adequately trained to maintain the system and appropriate controls will be instituted to
safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability o f the data. The accounting system will
be able to generate financial monitoring reports.


Books of Accounts

Although a computerized accounting system will be put in place, Program Management
should ensure that proper books o f accounts are kept. This will be achieved through a well
defined filing system that allows authorized users easy access to accounting and supporting

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex           72


documents .on a permanent basis. Registers for Fixed Assets, Contracts ,In-coming and out-
going Cheques, should be properly maintained.



ReportingArrangements

Integrated Financial Management I nformation System

The program will put inplace an IntegratedFinancial Management Information System. The
system should integrate the Budgeting, Operating and Accounting Systems to facilitate
monitoring and reporting. System generated formats for periodic reports will be developed
and agreed with program management. An action plan will be reached with the borrower
before BoardPresentation.


Financial Monitoring Reports(FMRs)

Project management should be able to produce FMRs by effectiveness. Consolidated
quarterly FMRswill be produced to include:
        Sources andUses o fFundsby Credit Categories and Program Components

    0   Output Monitoring Report

    0   Procurement Monitoring Reports



Financial Statements

Incompliance with InternationalAccounting Standards (IAS) andWorld Bank requirements,
the project will produce annual financial statements. Financial Statements will include:


    0   A Statement o f Cash Receipts and Payments which recognizes all cash receipts, cash
        payments and cash balances controlled bythe project.
    0   A Balance Sheet that shows Assets andLiabilities.

    0   A Statement o f Sources andUses o fFunds.
    0   Notes in respect o f significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted
        bymanagement and underlyingthe preparationo f financial statements.
    0   A Management Assertion that Bank funds have been expended inaccordance with the
        intended purposes as specified inthe World Bank legal agreement.

The report will be prepared in accordance with the Guidelines for Borrowers on Financial
Monitoring Reports.

MonitoringReports

Monthly Activity Reports will be preparedby Program management.

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex             73


Audit Arrangements

External Auditing

Qualified independent auditors will be appointed by the Technical Secretariat. The selected
auditors will be acceptable by IDA in terms o f independence, qualifications and experience.
The audit will be based on terms o f reference agreed with IDA. The external audit work will
include all World Bank funds, other funds and Government funds(if available) o f the
program.

Furthermore, the financial statements o f the Program will be audited every six months until
performance is proved to be satisfactory. The date o f the first audit will be determined in
consultation with IDA.

In addition to the audit report, the auditor will be requiredto prepare a Management Letter
where internal control weaknesses and recommendations for improvements, are highlighted.

A single audit opinion will be issued on program income and expenditures, special accounts
and statement o f expenditure. The audit reports along with Management Letters will be sent to
IDA and all other financing partners not later than four months after the end o feachpreceding
period.



Supervision

Financial Management Supervision will be done by the program World Bank Financial
Management Specialist over the program life to ensure the implementation o f strong financial
management systems. Statement O f Expenditure(S0E) reviews will be undertaken where
necessary, incompliance with World Bank requirements. The Project Status Report(PSR) will
include a financial management rating.

Ona semi-annual basis or at such time that the Government andthe Bank deemnecessary, the
Government and IDA would carry out joint supervision missions. These missions would
make spot checks on a small random sample o f beneficiaries at their place o f residence to
verify the use o fthe funds disbursed.


DisbursementArrangements

FinancingMechanisms

Therewould be five distinct financing mechanisms to manage Program funds:


    0   A quick disbursing mechanism for Category (1)
    0   A special Account for Categories (2) to (5) o fthe Grant

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex              74


   0    The government's contribution, inclusive o f Franc Burundais equivalent o fUS$
        deposited for the quick-disbursing mechanism, other donor support through the
        budget, and Government's counterpart contribution;
    0   A SpecialAccount for the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTF)

    0   Other bilateral financing partners

The rapid implementation o f the Program requires a substantial amount o f primarily local
currency at specific points in time. The Program addresses this exigency by incorporating the
provision o f foreign exchange through a quick disbursing mechanism. This mechanism would
consist o f reimbursement to the Government o f the foreign currency used for private sector
imports for eligible goods included ina pre-approved positive list o f imports. The proceeds o f
the quick disbursing component will be disbursed in accordance with the implementation o f
Program activities.

Upon receipt o f the proceeds o f the Grant through the release o f each installment into the
Deposit Account, the Central Bank o f Burundi (BRB) will convert the foreign currency into
Burundian Francs and deposit them in a Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account
(DRFA) openedbythe Government for this purpose.

A positive list o f imports will be established. It will be linked to the emergency at different
levels:


   0    The rehabilitation o f infrastructure and equipment destroyed by or dilapidated during
        the war
   0    The (re) construction o f houses for war affectedpopulations
   0    The program proper, in particular the reintegration component(agriculture, training,
        etc) but also the demobilization(transport, rehabilitation, etc).



BankingArrangements

World Bank Financed-Projects activities in Burundi are generally controlled through Special
Accounts(SA) and Project Account (PA). Counterpart funds are usually received through the
Project Account. These accounts are managedby the Project Management.

The following bank accounts will be maintained by the Executive Secretariat for program
funds:


0       Deposit Account : Denominated inU S dollars, will serve as the main project account
        into which will be deposited program funds under the quick disbursement mechanism
        for Category (1) o f the Grant.
0       IDA Grant Special Account: Denominated in US dollars, will be to deposit program
        funds for Category (2) to (5) o f the Grant.
0       M D T F Grant Special Account: Denominated inU s dollars, will be deposited program
        funds from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTF).

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex                75


0       Demobilization and Reintegration FundAccount(DRFA1: This will be denominated in
        local currency and counterpart funds from the Government o f Burundi may be
        deposited on this account inaccordance with program objectives.

The Deposit Account will be maintained in BRB. The Special Accounts, and the DRFA will
be maintained in a Commercial Bank with a wide geographical coverage. The Commercial
Bank shouldbe acceptable bythe World Bank.


Disbursementof IDA Fundsto ProgramManagement

IDA funds will be disbursed to the Program Management for activities based on Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) that include financial reporting, procurement and contract
management with physical implementationprogress.

The Borrower will open the Deposit Account for Category 1inU S dollars inthe BRB. Upon
Grant effectiveness and at the request o f the borrower, proceeds o f the first installment would
be deposited in this account against Statement o f Expenditures. The remaining installments
would be released if the Program is being implemented in a manner satisfactory to the
Association and on the basis o f


    0   An implementationplan and resource requirements for the subsequent 6 month period;
    0   A list o f ex-combatants, identifying the amount o f the funds allocated to each in
        support o ftheir reinsertion and reintegration; and
    0   Verification that a statistically representative sample o f the Ex-Combatants have
        received their payments in accordance with the work program and budget o f the
        Project and providing information on the purposes for which the resources were
        utilizedby the ex-combatants as well as their income-generation and social status.

Provincial Program offices will manage petty cash accounts for limited expenses. The petty
cash will be managed on an imprest system. Petty Cash limits will be established. It will be
replenished on presentation o f adequatejustifications.



Disbursement of funds from DRFA to Ex-combatants
Funds will be disbursed to the DRFA to Ex-combatants through the Commercial Banking
System. Eligible ex-combatants will be required to open accounts in a Commercial Banks.
Payments will be initiated and authorized at the central level by the Executive Secretariat.




Flow of Funds

The diagrambelow illustrates the Funds Flow arrangements:

Burundi Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program - TechnicalAnnex              76


           FUNDS FLOW ARRANGEMENTS


         Government
         o fBurundi                                                 IDA




                                                   Deposit             IDA Grant   MDTFGrant

            DRFA           4                       Account             Special     Special
                                                                      Account      Account




B. CONCLUSION

Financial Management risks will be reduced through the implementation of the actionplan



Financial ManagementAction Plan




                        procedures to be usedfor the program


