Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H076 BU 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 2 , 2004
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H076  BU 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February 19, 2004
 
(Letter of Demobilization, Reinsertion, and Reintegration Program), from the Recipient 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to address the 
Emergency through the demobilization, reinsertion, and reintegration of a large number 
of Ex-
Combatants (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program; 
 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and which forms part of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings 
 
(a) 
“African Mission in Burundi” or “AMIB” means the peacekeeping 
mission of the African Union in Burundi established under the terms of the ceasefire 
agreement of December 2, 2002 between the Recipient and the CNDD, and deployed in 
conformity with the decision of the meeting of the African Union in its 91st Ordinary 
Session on April 2, 2003; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“Armed Political Party and Movement” or “APPM” means an organized 
armed group that engaged in military fighting between October 21, 1993 and November 
16, 2003
 
against the armed forces of the Recipient in the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(c) 
“Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement” or “Arusha Agreement” 
means the agreement of August 28, 2000 among a number of Burundian political parties, 
which provided a political framework for the reform of state institutions and a return to 
democratic government in the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(d) 
“Burundian Francs” or “BIF” means the currency of the Recipient; 
 
(e) “
Combattants Militants
”
means auxiliary units of the APPMs providing 
non-combatant services to the APPMs; 
 
(f) “
Conseil National pour la Défense de la Démocratie
”
or “CNDD” means 
the National Council for the Defense of Democracy, an opposition political movement 
using violent means until the signing of a comprehensive ceasefire agreement with the 
Recipient on November 16, 2003; 
 
(g) 
“Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account” or “DRFA” means 
the account in BIF to be established pursuant to Section 6.01 (b)
 
of
this Agreement in a 
commercial bank for the purpose of holding the local currency counterpart funds of the 
proceeds of the Grant allocated to Category (1) of the table in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and other Recipient counterpart contribution to the Project; 
 
(h) 
“Demobilization Center” means a site temporarily utilized under the 
Program for purposes of demobilizing Combatants; 
 
(i) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule
 
1
to this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (2)-(5) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(l) 
“Emergency” means the extraordinary event of limited duration which, 
for the purposes of this Agreement, started on November 16, 2003, and which was caused 
by the signature of a comprehensive cease-fire agreement between the Recipient, the 
CNDD, and the
 Forces pour la Défense de la Démocratie
 (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(m) 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the evaluation of the 
Project's potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of influence, to be 
Page  4
-
3
-
conducted by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule
 
4
to this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
the framework, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, describing 
measures for the mitigation of the potential adverse environmental and social impact of 
the Project, as the same may be updated from time to time with the approval of the 
Association, to be prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
 “Ex-Combatant” means: (i) any member of the armed forces of the 
Recipient to be demobilized after the date of this Agreement; or (iii) any member of an 
APPM who fulfills the criteria for combatant status, to be set out in the legislation to be 
enacted by the Recipient pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, to be 
demobilized after the date of this Agreement;
 
(p) 
“Executive Secretariat” or “ES” means the Project implementation unit 
established by the Recipient as the executing body of the National Commission for 
Demobilization, Reinsertion, and Reintegration (as hereinafter defined) and whose role 
and functions are described in Paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(r) “
Forces Armées Burundaises
”
or “FAB” means the armed forces of the 
Recipient; 
 
(s) “
Forces pour la Défense de la Démocratie
”
or
“FDD” means the Force 
for the Defense of Democracy, the military wing of the CNDD ; 
 
(t) 
“Forces Technical Agreement” means the agreement of November 2,
 
2003 between the Recipient and the CNDD, which details the provisions for the 
integration of FAB, CNDD, and FDD combatants into the NDF and the national police; 
 
(u) “
Gardiens de la Paix
”
means the militia created by the Beneficiary to 
enhance security in conflict-affected areas; 
 
(v) 
“Joint Ceasefire Commission” or “JCC” means the commission 
established under the terms of the Arusha Agreement of, and whose task it is to guide and 
observe implementation of the security aspects of the Agreement, and which is chaired by 
the United Nations and consists of the military leadership of the signatories of the Arusha 
Agreement and subsequent cease-fire agreements; 
 
(w) 
“Joint Liaison Team” or “JLT” means a team established under the aegis 
of the JCC, comprising the AMIB, ES, and relevant parties of the JCC and assigned to a 
Page  5
-
4
-
specific Demobilization Center, and which monitors execution and implementation of 
disarmament and demobilization activities in accordance with the Joint Operations Plan 
(as hereinafter defined); 
 
(x) 
“Joint Operations Plan” means a plan developed by the ES / NCDRR, 
AMIB, the United Nations Office for Burundi, UNICEF, and the MDRP Secretariat, 
outlining the procedures for the disarmament, verification, screening for military 
integration and demobilization of APPMs and the FABand specifying the roles and 
responsibilities of implementing partners during this process; 
 
(y) 
“Manual of Financial and Accounting Procedures” or “MFAP” means 
the manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, contained in the 
Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and outlining the financial and 
accounting procedures, policies, and guidelines to be followed by the Recipient in Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the MFAP; 
 
(z) 
“Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program Secretariat” 
or “MDRP Secretariat” means the secretariat which services the Multi-Country 
Demobilization and Reintegration Program Trust Fund and partnership coordination 
activities; 
 
(aa)  “National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion, and 
Reintegration” or “NCDRR” means the entity responsible for overall supervision of the 
Program, established by the Recipient and operating pursuant to Decrees No. 100/127
 
of 
August 28, 2003 and 100/180 of December 10, 2003, and whose role and functions are 
described in Paragraph 1
 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(bb) 
“National Defense Force” or “NDF” means the future armed forces of 
the Recipient, to be established following integration of Ex-Combatants from APPMs and 
the FAB into a new national armed force, in accordance with the Arusha Agreement and 
the Forces Technical Agreement; 
 
(cc) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual adopted 
by the Recipient pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, and containing details of 
procurement and disbursement arrangements, arrangements for environmental and social 
monitoring and mitigation, a manual of financial procedures, and other administrative 
and organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association for 
purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the PIM; 
 
(dd) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the Letter Agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on June 12, 2003 and on behalf of the Recipient on June 14, 
2003; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ee) 
 “Provincial Program Office” or “PPO” means the implementation arm 
of the ES / NCDRR at the provincial level, established by the Recipient in each of its 
provinces where Ex-Combatants will settle and whose role and functions are described in 
Paragraph 4
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(ff) 
 
“Report-Based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal for funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(gg) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1 of Schedule
 
1
to this Agreement; 
 
(hh) 
“Special Target Group” means a special group of Ex-Combatants that are 
provided targeted support for their medical rehabilitation or social and economic 
reintegration and comprises those who are children, female or disabled; and 
 
(ii) 
“Transitional Subsistence Allowance” or “TSA” means cash payments 
made to Ex-Combatants under the Project for purposes of their reintegration into civilian 
life. 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The un-withdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03.  (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
Page  7
-
6
-
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04.  Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date of the Grant shall be December 31, 2008 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
carry out, through the ES / NCDRR, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, and military demobilization 
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objective; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.  
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall for purposes of making the counterpart contribution to the financing of 
the Project: 
 
(a) 
establish and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, the 
DRFA;  and 
 
(b) 
promptly thereafter deposit in the DRFA the local currency counterpart 
funds of the proceeds of the Grant allocated to Category (1) of  the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and ensure that all such funds shall be used exclusively to 
make payments for the demobilization, reinsertion, and reintegration of Ex-Combatants. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Deposit Account, Special Account, and 
DRFA for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
Page  9
-
8
-
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were Report-Based Disbursements or made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
 
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section III
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the  Recipient shall 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(a) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and projected sources and 
uses of  such funds; 
(b) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the previously forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; 
 
(b) 
funds deposited in the DRFA pursuant to this Agreement have been used 
for purposes other than those stated in Section 3.03 (b) and (d) of this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
demobilization of the NDF has not commenced by June 30, 2006. 
 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the PIM, including the MFAP, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, has been adopted by the NCDRR; 
 
(b) 
the DRFA has been established by the Recipient; 
 
(c) 
legislation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,  setting 
out the definition of and criteria for Ex-Combatant status as well as the rank distribution 
to be applied during the demobilization process under the Program, has been adopted by 
the Recipient; and 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(d) 
legislation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, setting 
out criteria for status as a member of 
Gardiens de la Paix
 and 
Combattants Militants
,
to 
be applied under the Program, has been adopted by the Recipient. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in 
effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the 
parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Bujumbura 
 
Burundi 
 
Facsimile:  
(257) 223 827
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By 
/s/ Antoine Ntamobwa 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ 
Emmanuel 
Mbi 
    
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Eligible imports to be  
 
 
100% of foreign 
 
financed under the Project 
 
 
       expenditures     
 
as specified in Annex A                                                               
 
to this Schedule 
 
        
 
(a) Tranche One 
6,700,000 
 
(b) Tranche Two 
6,700,000 
 
(c) Tranche Three 
4,100,000 
 
(2) Civil 
works 
670,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) Vehicles, 
furniture, 
670,000 
100% 
 
equipment and materials 
 
 
 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services 
1,350,000 
100% 
 
(including audits) and training 
 
 
 
 
(5) Incremental 
operating 
costs 
670,000 
 
100% 
 
(6) 
Refunding of the Project 
400,000 
 
      Amount due  
 
Preparation Advance                                                                  pursuant to 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
 
      Section 2.02 (b) of                    
 
this Agreement 
(7) Unallocated 
940,000  
 
 
_________
TOTAL 22,200,000
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
“Foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Recipient; and 
 
(b)  
“Incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred 
by the ES / NCDRR on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office space rental and utilities, office supplies, bank charges, communications, 
vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, building and equipment maintenance 
costs, travel and supervision costs, and salaries of supporting staff, but excluding salaries 
of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a)  
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) of the table in Part
 
A.1 of this Schedule prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 4,440,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for Eligible Expenditures before that date but after December
 
31, 2003; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) and (c) of the 
table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, unless the Program is being implemented in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association and the Recipient has furnished to the Association the 
following information: 
 
(i) 
an implementation plan and resource requirements for 
the subsequent six-month period; 
 
(ii) 
beneficiary survey findings, confirming that at least 95% 
of Ex-Combatants have received Transitional 
Subsistence Allowance payments due them from 
previous installments within ninety (90) days of the 
scheduled payment date; and 
 
(iii) 
a list of Ex-Combatants, identifying the amount of the 
funds allocated to each in support of their reinsertion and 
reintegration. 
 
4. 
It is understood that the percentages in the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions in the letter from the Recipient’s Minister 
of Finance to the Association, dated February 20, 2004, which exempt the goods, services 
and works to be financed under the Project from taxes and customs duties levied by the 
Recipient.  If any change is made to said letter which has the effect of levying taxes or 
Page  16
-
15
-
customs duties on such goods, services or works, the percentages referred to above shall 
be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) imports under contracts 
costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent each; (c) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (e) services of individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (f) training not subject to contract; and (g) incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-Based Disbursements).  In 
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has 
been made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
 
B. Deposit 
Account
1. 
The Recipient shall, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal under Category (1) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, open and 
maintain in US Dollars a Deposit Account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals for this Category shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
C. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Categories (2)-(5) of the table in Part A.1 
of this Schedule, open and maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1; and  
 
Page  17
-
16
-
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex C to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
Based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-Based 
Disbursements.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  18
-
17
-
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex A  
to  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Classes of Eligible Imports to be Financed under the Project 
 
1.     Agricultural equipment and inputs; 
 
2.     Petroleum and fuel products; 
 
3.     Construction materials; 
 
4.     Transport vehicles and spare parts; 
 
5.     Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies; 
 
6.     School supplies and equipment; 
 
7.     Medical supplies and equipment; 
 
8.     Construction equipment, industrial machinery and spare parts; 
 
9.     Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts; and 
 
10.   Industrial raw materials and chemicals.
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B  
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-Based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $450,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $225,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 450,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part
 
C.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
un-withdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
Page  21
-
20
-
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex C 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-Based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
un-withdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in creating long-term 
sustainable social development and supporting macroeconomic stability in its territory 
through the: (i) demobilization of approximately 55,000
 
Ex-Combatants from the FAB, 
APPMs, and the NDF, up to 20,000 members of 
Gardiens de la Paix
,
and up to 10,000 
members of 
Combattants Militants
,
while providing support for their reinsertion and 
social and economic reintegration; and (ii) contribution to reallocation of Recipient’s 
resulting budget savings from defense to social and economic sectors. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
A. 
Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration
Importation of goods specified in Annex A to Schedule 1 to this Agreement to 
support demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration of Ex-Combatants, including 
Special Target Groups. 
 
B.  
Institutional Development and Project Implementation Support
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Recipient’s institutions at the central and local 
level to carry out and support activities under the Project through the provision of training 
and technical advisory services, and acquisition of vehicles and equipment. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of: (i) selected studies, including in relation to development of a 
pre-demobilization orientation program and a community sensitization and participation 
program; and (ii) financial audits, monitoring, and external evaluations of the Project. 
 
3. 
(i) Rehabilitation of Demobilization Centers as needed, and of medical facilities 
in accordance with the settlement patterns of Ex-Combatants; (ii) acquisition of medical 
and other equipment, drugs and prostheses to support the reintegration of disabled Ex-
Combatants; and (iii) acquisition of HIV / AIDS prevention and protection tools and test 
kits. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
I. 
Procurement of Good and Works
A. General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section. 
 
B. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
C. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract and 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Drugs, reagents, medical equipment and other such goods estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Commercial 
Practices
Goods imported by the private sector under Category (1) of the table in Schedule 
1
to this Agreement estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured in accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  25
-
24
-
4. Direct 
contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier of existing equipment 
in order to be compatible with such equipment, or which are of a proprietary nature, such 
as CD4 cell count and HIV/ AIDS testing reagents, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $100
,000, may be procured, with the Association’s prior agreement, from a 
particular manufacturer or an authorized local supplier in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, including vehicles, motorcycles, computers, drugs and medical supplies, 
up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000, may be procured through the IAPSO
,
UNFPA, UNICEF, and WHO, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed semi-
annual procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply; and 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
II. 
Employment of Consultants
A. General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto; and (b) the following provisions of this 
Section. 
 
B. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
 
II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
C. 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial audits and external evaluations estimated to cost less than 
$75,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. UN 
Agencies
Technical advisory services may be procured under contracts with UN agencies 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Technical advisory services may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured under contracts with UN agencies in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines;  
 
D. 
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
 
Page  28
-
27
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
I. 
Project Coordination and Management
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project 
the NCDRR in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  The NCDRR,  headed 
by the President of the Recipient, shall be responsible for overall coordination, 
management and implementation of the Project.  It is charged with: (i) formulating Ex-
Combatant demobilization, reinsertion and socio-economic reintegration policy; (ii) 
launching initiatives as needed to ensure a smooth transition of Ex-Combatants to civilian 
life; (iii) supervising and monitoring the functioning and ES implementation of the 
Program; and (iv) ensuring policy and strategic coordination of the Program. 
 
2. 
The NCDRR shall be supported at the central level by an ES which shall report 
to the Office of the President and which shall be headed by an Executive Secretary who 
shall report to the NCDRR.  The ES shall be assisted by three advisors, each of whom 
shall be responsible for operations, finance and administration, and information 
management, respectively, and three directors, each of whom shall be responsible for 
operations, finance and administration, and information management, respectively.  The 
ES shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project the following 
three departments with staff recruited through a competitive process and with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association: operations, finance and administration, and 
information management.  The Executive Secretary shall be assisted by a Director of 
Operations, an Operations Advisor, a Director of Finance and Administration under 
whose control an accounting unit shall be created, a Procurement Specialist, a Director 
for Information and Sensitization, an Information and Sensitization Advisor, and a 
General Advisor. 
 
3. 
The ES shall be responsible for: (i) the preparation and costing of detailed annual 
implementation plans for the Program; (ii) the implementation and coordination of 
individual Program components, and to this end shall work in close collaboration with the 
relevant Recipient agencies as well as local organizations and associations, the private 
sector, and UN agencies; (iii) the transparent and accountable administration of the 
Program, including procurement and financial management; (iv) monitoring and 
evaluation of Program implementation progress and impact; and (v) coordination with 
international donor agencies. 
 
4. 
The ES / NCDRR shall be represented in each province of the Recipient by a 
PPO which shall report to the ES / NCDRR and whose staff shall be recruited in 
accordance with the settlement patterns of Ex-Combatants.  The PPOs shall have the 
following responsibilities: (i) updating the inventory of projects and training and 
employment providers; (ii) conducting outreach activities, including counseling and 
referral, and providing support to income-generating activities; (iii) managing the work of 
Page  30
-
29
-
Ex-Combatants recruited in accordance with the settlement patterns of Ex-Combatants to 
carry out sensitization activities; (iv) technical and financial monitoring of reintegration 
activities, especially at the community level; and (v) liaising with Recipient institutions at 
the local level, non-governmental institutions, and other reconstruction bodies. 
 
5. 
The ES / NCDRR shall recruit and train an Ex-Combatant in accordance with the 
settlement patterns of Ex-Combatants to carry out sensitization activities.  This Ex-
Combatant shall serve as the link between the Program and the Ex-Combatant at the 
community level and be responsible for activities such as the following: (i) the 
decentralized provision of Program information to Ex-Combatants; (ii) advocacy of Ex-
Combatant access to local-community-based development and reconstruction activities; 
(iii) facilitation of monitoring and evaluation data collection; and (iv) identification of 
major reintegration bottlenecks and conflicts, and their referral to the respective PPO. 
 
6. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM, and shall 
not amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion of the Association shall 
materially or adversely impact the implementation of the Project.  The PIM shall specify 
the detailed rules and processes for demobilization, including identification and screening 
of Ex-Combatants; the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions of reinsertion and 
reintegration assistance to Ex-Combatants; verification of assistance packages; and flow 
of funds to Ex-Combatants and verification of the use of such funds by Ex-Combatants 
for the intended purposes. 
 
7. 
The Recipient shall, no later than within six months of the Effectiveness Date, 
and annually thereafter or upon the request of the Association, furnish to the Association: 
(i) verification that a statistically representative sample of Ex-Combatants have received 
their TSA payments in accordance with the annual work program and budget of the 
Project; and (ii) information on the purposes for which the TSA payments were utilized 
by the sample of Ex-Combatants as well as the income-generation and social status of 
such sample of Ex-Combatants. 
 
II. Safeguard 
Policies
The Recipient shall, no later than six (6) months of the Effectiveness Date, 
prepare the ESMF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and, 
subsequently, Subproject-specific EAs, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, as needed.  The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
aforementioned, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
III. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
The Recipient shall:  
Page  31
-
30
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the  Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30 in each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
 
(a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by October 31 in each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the Recipient’s obligations with respect to auditing of 
Project accounts set forth in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, the Recipient shall carry 
out a financial and technical audit of the records and accounts for the Deposit Account 
and the DRFA within six (6) months of each tranche release. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall carry out no later than December 31 every year an external 
evaluation of the implementation of the Project, including an analysis of environmental 
and social monitoring indicators, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and communicate to the Association the results of such evaluation. 
Page  32
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”; 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”; 
 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”;  
 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”; and 
 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(i)      The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
 
(i) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are 
modified to read “commitment charge”. 
Page  33
-
32
-
(a) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
6. 
 Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c)  Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
 
7. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  34
-
33
-
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators
 
1. 
At least 14,000 Ex-Combatants are demobilized annually; 
2. 
Each demobilized Ex-Combatant has received his / her TSA payment within 
thirty (30) days of scheduled payment dates; 
3. 
Ex-Combatants have access to reintegration assistance within nine (9) months of 
their demobilization; 
4. 
Average income levels of Ex-Combatants are similar to average income levels in 
their communities of settlement within twenty-four (24) months of the Ex-
Combatants’ 
demobilization; 
5. 
An external evaluation of the implementation of the Project is carried out 
annually in accordance with Section III.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and includes 
an analysis of environmental and social monitoring indicators; and 
6. 
Recurrent expenditures on defense are a maximum of FBU 49.4 billion in 2005, 
FBU 36.1 billion in 2006 and FBU 23.8 billion in 2007.  At the same time, expenditures 
on health and education combined increase by FBU 6.7 billion in 2006 and 
FBU 19 billion 
in 
2007.
 
