                                             Document of
                                          The World Bank




                                                                Report No: ICR00001152



                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA H076 ­ TF 053794)

                                               ON AN

                                            IDA GRANT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22 MILLION
                                 (US$ 33 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 AND A TRUST FUNDED GRANT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 28 MILLION
                                (US$ 41.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                                      FOR AN EMERGENCY

             DEMOBILIZATION, REINSERTION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT


                                            June 23, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development Unit
Africa Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                              (Exchange Rate Effective May 2009)
                                Currency Unit = Burundi Francs
                                      US$1 = BIF 1,241
                                      SDR1 = US$ 1.33

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                          July 1 ­ June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

    AMIB      African Peacekeeping Mission in Burundi
   ASPEN      Africa Region Social and Environmental Safeguards Unit (World Bank)
   APPMs      Armed political parties and movements
   BINUB      United Nations Integrated Mission to Burundi
     BNP      Burundi National Police
     CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CNDD-FDD      Conseil National Pour la Défense de la Démocratie ­ Forces de la Défense de la Démocratie
              ­ National Council for the Defense of Democracy ­ Democratic Defense Forces
      D&R     Demobilization and Reintegration
     DRRP     Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program
     ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
      FAB     Forces Armées Burundaises ­ Burundi Armed Forces
      FNL     Forces Nationales de la Libération ­ National Forces of Liberation
    FNL-D     Forces Nationales de la Libération ­ Dissidents ­ National Forces of Liberation - Dissidents
      FTA     Forces Technical Agreement
      GoB     Government of Burundi
 HIV/AIDS     Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
     IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
       IDA    International Development Association
        ITS   Indemnité Transitoire de Subsistance (French translation of TSA ­ see below)
       JCC    Joint Cease-Fire Commission
       JOP    Joint Operations Plan
    JVMC      Joint Verification and Monitoring Mechanism
    MDRP      Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
    MDTF      Multi-Donor Trust Fund
      M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation
       MIS    Management Information System
   NCDRR      National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration
      NDF     National Defense Force
      NGO     Non-Governmental organization
    OP/BP     Operational Policy/Bank Policy
      PDO     Pre-discharge orientation
      PDO     Project Development Objective
       PIM    Program implementation manual
   PNDRR      Programme National pour la Démobilisation, Réinsertion et Réintégration ­ National
              Program for Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration
    PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
     TSA      Transitional subsistence allowance
      UN      United Nations
   UNDP       United Nations Development Program
  UNICEF      United Nations Children Fund
     VCT      Voluntary Counseling and Testing
      Vice President:   Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
    Country Director:   John McIntire
   Country Manager:     Mercy Myiang Tembon
     Sector Manager:    Ian Bannon
Project Team Leader:    Marcelo Jorge Fabre
   ICR Team Leader:     Bernard Harborne
                                                     REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                Emergency Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Project


                                                                   CONTENTS




1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................................................... 1
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ....................................................................... 6
3.  Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................................... 11
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................................. 18
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................................................. 18
6.  Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................................ 21
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ................................... 24
Annex 1.   Project Costs and Financing................................................................................................ 25
Annex 2.   Outputs by Component ....................................................................................................... 26
Annex 3.   Economic and Financial Analysis ....................................................................................... 27
Annex 4.   Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .................................. 29
Annex 5.   Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .................................................................................... 31
Annex 6.   Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR ............................................................. 34
Annex 7.   Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................................. 36
Annex 8.   List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................................ 37
Annex 9.        List of key informants ......................................................................................................... 39
[MAP] ....................................................................................................................................................... 40
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Burundi Emergency
                                                                          Demobilization,
Country:                Burundi                 Project Name:
                                                                          Reinsertion and
                                                                          Reintegration Program
Project ID:             P081964                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H0760,TF-53794
ICR Date:               06/26/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BURUNDI
Original Total
                        USD 33.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 29.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/15/2003     Effectiveness:                               09/10/2004
Appraisal:            10/20/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/18/2004     Mid-term Review:          06/15/2007         06/15/2007
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2008         12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:               Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower          Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:              Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                 5                    5
Other social services                                                 95                  95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  29                  29
Gender                                                                14                  14
HIV/AIDS                                                              14                  14
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  14                  14
Social safety nets                                                    29                  29

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Calisto Madavo
Country Director:          John McIntire                        Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:            Ian Bannon                           Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project Team Leader:       Marcelo Jorge Fabre                  Ingo Wiederhofer
ICR Team Leader:           Bernard Harborne
ICR Primary Author:        Fanny Robert


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall goal of the DRRP would be to help consolidate peace in Burundi and the
Great Lakes region through the implementation of relevant articles of the Arusha Peace
Accord and subsequent cease-fire agreements. The three principal objectives of the
Program would be to:



                                                 ii
  (i) demobilize an estimated 55,000 ex-combatants from the FAB, members of Armed
Political Parties and Movements (APPMs), and subsequently the NDF, as well as support
their reintegration into civilian life; (ii) provide reinsertion assistance to 20,000 Gardien
de la Paix and 10,000 combattants militants militia; and (iii) contribute to the reallocation
of Government expenditure from defense to social and economic sectors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target          Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values          Target Years
                  Up to a maximum of 55,000 ex-combatants from FAB and APPMs have been
Indicator 1 :     demobilized and reintegrated into civilian life. Up to 30,000 militias provided
                  reinsertion support
                                                                                  26,283 ex-
                                                                                  combatants
                                            up to 55,000 ex-
                                                                                  demobilized.
                                            combatants
Value                                                                             28,383 Gardiens de
                                            up to 30,000
quantitative or   0%                                                              la Paix and
                                            Gardien de la Paix
Qualitative)                                                                      Combattants
                                            and Combattants
                                                                                  Militants have
                                            Milittants
                                                                                  received reinsertion
                                                                                  support.
Date achieved     09/10/2004                12/31/2008                            12/31/2008
                  100% of eligible combatants were demobilized.The discrepancy between initial
Comments
                  and actual target numbers is due to an overestimation of the original size and
(incl. %
                  composition of the different fighting forces, and to delays in the negotiations
achievement)
                  with FNL-PALIPEHUTU
                  At least 40% of ex-combatants are engaged in sustainable income-generating
Indicator 2 :
                  activities within 18 months of demobilization.
                                                                                  Over 87% of ex-
                                            40% are engaged                       combatants
Value
                                            in sustainable                        reported being
quantitative or   0%
                                            income-generating                     employed in 2008
Qualitative)
                                            activities                            survey on
                                                                                  reintegration.
Date achieved     09/10/2004                12/31/2008                            12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Recurrent expenditures on defense fall from FBU49.4 billion in 2005, and fall to
Indicator 3 :     FBU 23.8 billion in 2007. Expenditures on health & education combined
                  increase by FBU25.7 over same period



                                                  iii
                                                                             2008 revised
                FBU 62.7 billion for                                         budget: FBU 132.3
Value
                defense                    Projected 2009-                   billion for health &
quantitative or
                FBU 51.3 billion for       2.2%                              education
Qualitative)
                social expenditures                                          combined; FBU
                                                                             57.6 for defense.
Date achieved 09/10/2004                  12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
              Demobilization has reduced defense expenditures between 2005 and 2009, but
(incl. %
              the increase in the police force has more than offset the savings
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   At least 14,000 ex-combattants are demobilized annually.
                                                                              year 1:15,170
Value
                                                                              demobilized; year
(quantitative   0%                         N/A
                                                                              2: 2,181; year 3:
or Qualitative)
                                                                              2,735; year 4: 1,987
Date achieved 09/10/2004                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments        The discrepancy between initial and actual target numbers is due to an
(incl. %        overestimation of the original size and composition of the different fighting
achievement) forces, and to delays in the negotiations with FNL-PALIPEHUTU
                Each demobilized has received his/her Transitional Subsistence Allowance
Indicator 2 :
                payment within 30 days of scheduled payment dates
Value
                                                                              23,022 have
(quantitative   0%                         95%
                                                                              received their TSA
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/10/2004                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments        Initially scheduled tranches payment was 3, 6 and 9 months after demobilization.
(incl. %        Average payments were made 3.01, 6.03 and 9.01 months after demobilization.
achievement) Over 98% on average have received their TSA on time.
                Each disabled ex-combatant has received medical rehabilitation assistance within
Indicator 3 :
                18 months of demobilization
                                                                              1,660 disabled ex-
Value                                                                         combatants were
(quantitative   0%                         100%                               provided medical
or Qualitative)                                                               rehabilitation
                                                                              assistance
Date achieved 09/10/2004                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments        100% of disabled ex-combatants have received basic medical assistance in
(incl. %        demobilization camps. 40% of severely and very severely disabled ex-
achievement) combatants have received medical rehabilitation assistance starting July 2008.
                100% of registering ex-combatants have access to reintegration assistance within
Indicator 4 :
                9 months of their demobilization



                                                iv
                                                                               21,996 ex-
Value                                                                          combatants have
(quantitative   0%                       100%                                  received
or Qualitative)                                                                reintegration
                                                                               assistance.
Date achieved 09/10/2004                   12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
                The average wait time between demobilization and the beginning of the
(incl. %
                reintegration assistance was 1 year throughout the project.
achievement)
                Up to 20,000 Gardiens de la Paix and 10,000 Combattants are disarmed and each
Indicator 5 :
                receive FBU 100,000 service allowances
                                                                            18,709 Gardiens de
                                                                            la paix and 9,674
Value                                                                       Combattants were
(quantitative   0%                         100%                             disarmed and
or Qualitative)                                                             received
                                                                            FBU100,000
                                                                            service allowance.
Date achieved 09/10/2004                   12/31/2005                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        94% of original target
achievement)
                Up to 20,000 Gardiens de la Paix and 10,000 Combattants are disarmed and each
Indicator 6 :
                receive FBU 100,000 service allowances
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/10/2004                   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                             IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     09/29/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/19/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     6.05
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  3     06/30/2005                                                                       11.17
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  4     09/16/2005                                                                       11.17
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately
  5     10/25/2005                                       Unsatisfactory                  11.37
                          Unsatisfactory
  6     12/02/2005     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             11.37
  7     03/27/2006     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             12.04
  8     06/30/2006     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             12.82


                                                 v
  9    12/22/2006   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory   22.81
                                                    Moderately
 10    05/30/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                              22.81
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                 Moderately
 11    08/13/2007                                                        22.81
                       Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                 Moderately
 12    03/17/2008                                                        25.00
                       Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
 13    06/26/2008   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory   25.81
 14    12/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory   26.54


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
                        1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

Note: Per OPCS guidelines, this ICR will focus on rating the outcomes of the project as well as
identifying lessons learned from this operation. Further, some additional detail is provided on the
relevant socio-political context due the difficult operating environment in which this project was
launched.

1.1        Context at Appraisal

1.      In 2000, emerging from the cycle of recurrent politico-ethnic conflict that had plagued the
country for several years, Burundi reached a milestone in the peace process. The Arusha Peace and
Reconciliation Agreement on August 28, 2000 laid the groundwork for constitutional and institutional
reform to foster national reconciliation between the nine co-signatory parties. A power sharing
transitional Government was successfully inaugurated on November 1, 2001. However, large-scale
violence continued to prevent the complete stabilization of the country. Two major armed political
parties and movements (APPMs), the Conseil National Pour la Défense de la Démocratie - Forces Pour
la Défense de la Démocratie (CNDD-FDD) and the Forces Nationales Pour la Libération -
PALIPEHUTU (FNL-PALIPEHUTU) continued to fight the transitional Government and refused to
participate in the Arusha process. Only in November 2003 did the CNDD-FDD, the larger of the two
armed groups, finally reach a comprehensive cease-fire agreement with the Government.

2.     At the time of project launch, in 2003, the situation was marked by rising poverty: the proportion
of people living below the poverty line rose from 35% in 1992 to more than 60%. Burundi was
presenting some of the worst socio-economic indicators in the world, including high infant mortality and
acute malnutrition. Of an estimated population of 8 million persons, over 800,000 were living in refugee
camps in neighboring Tanzania, in addition to 300,000 internally-displaced civilians still in country.1
Protocol IV of the Arusha Agreement had dedicated an entire portion of its final text to the issue of
refugees and IDPs by planning for an independent legal framework and the establishment of a national
commission for the rehabilitation of war-affected populations. In 2002, in the midst of ongoing violence
and with little preparation, refugee camps in Tanzania started to be dismantled by the Burundian Army
because they were considered a recruitment base for the armed groups. The ensuing migratory situation
was later identified as a variable in the reintegration of ex-combatants into civil society.2

3.     In turn, the economic situation was marked by falling output and incomes (GDP declined by
nearly 20% in real terms over the period 1993- 2002); high levels of inflation; diminished public
revenues; the withdrawal of international financial assistance (international aid transfers fell from an
annual average of nearly US$300 million to less than an annual average of US$ 100 million between
1992 and 2002); lower investment (the investment rate fell from an annual average of more than 15% to
9% between 1992 and 2002); and the accumulation of domestic and external deficits and external
payment arrears (which stood at US$148.5 million in 2002).

4.    On August 28, 2003 and in direct response to the renewed efforts to seek peace and stability, the
Government established a National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration

1
    International Crisis Group briefing, [December, 2003].
2
    Peter Uvin [May, 2007], Ex-combatants in Burundi: why they joined, why they left, how they fared.


                                                               1
(NCDRR) to provide political and strategic guidance to the DDR process. An Executive Secretariat was
put in place to implement a national DDR program, as well as to coordinate the contributions of
international partners. Within the framework of the Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration
Program (MDRP) for the greater Great Lakes region, the Government asked the World Bank for
financial and technical assistance to support a Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Project
(DRRP). Efforts towards the demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants in Burundi were
supported by representatives of several MDRP donors and partners, the African Union Mission in
Burundi (AMIB) and the Joint Cease-fire Commission (JCC) chaired by the United Nations. In this
context, the Bank worked with the Government and other key stakeholders to facilitate the preparation
of a Joint Operations Plan (JOP) outlining the roles and responsibilities of all actors engaged in the
disarmament and demobilization process.

5.       The Government's request for technical and financial assistance for the DRRP had come at a
critical time in the peace process. IDA's involvement was justified by its considerable experience with
such programs, the scale of resources required for the Program, the focus on socio-economic
reintegration of ex-combatants, and the need for IDA to be responsive to a client request to lead and
coordinate international support for a critical peace-building operation. IDA support was intended to
complement the activities of other international stakeholders in Burundi and the region. The
establishment of a multi-donor trust fund under the umbrella of the MDRP program allowed for donor
coordination and flexibility in the funding available.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators [as approved]:

Development objectives:

6.      The overall goal of the DRRP was to help consolidate peace in Burundi and the Great Lakes
region through the implementation of relevant articles of the Arusha Peace Accord and subsequent
cease-fire agreements. The three main objectives of the Program were to: (i) demobilize an estimated
55,000 ex-combatants from the Forces Armées Burundaises (FAB), members of Armed Political Parties
and Movements (APPMs), and subsequently the National Defense Force (NDF), as well as support their
reintegration into civilian life; (ii) provide reinsertion assistance to 20,000 Gardiens de la Paix and
10,000 combattants militants militia; and (iii) contribute to the reallocation of Government expenditures
from defense to social and economic sectors.

Letter of Demobilization Policy:

7.      In February 2004, the Government addressed to the President of the World Bank a document
containing the Government commitment to implement DDR activities in the country. This "Letter of
Demobilization Policy," outlined the legal framework for DDR activities, the target numbers and a
schedule for implementation. This key information was embedded into the project design and drove the
establishment of estimates and targets for the project. The strategy described in the Letter also outlines a
gradual decrease in the size of the National Defense Force (NDF) over a period of four years, after its
creation out of personnel selected from the former APPMs and Burundian Armed Forces (FAB). In
summary, the Letter establishes a two-phase program including:




                                                     2
             a. Phase 1 (year 1): The Joint Operations Plan establishes criteria for combatant status and
                eligibility for integration in the regular forces. Ineligible combatants (for the army) would
                be demobilized (ca. 14,000)
             b. Phase 2 (years 2- 4): The NDF is gradually downsized with demobilization of combatants
                (ca. 14,000 in year 2; 14,000 in year 3 and 13,000 in year 4).

Key indicators:

      1. At least 14,000 Ex-Combatants are demobilized annually;
      2. Each demobilized Ex-Combatant has received his / her TSA payment within thirty (30) days of
         scheduled payment dates;
      3. Ex-Combatants have access to reintegration assistance within nine months of their
         demobilization;
      4. Average income levels of Ex-Combatants are similar to average income levels in their
         communities of settlement within 24 months of the Ex-Combatants' demobilization;
      5. An external evaluation of the implementation of the Project is carried out annually and includes
         an analysis of environmental and social monitoring indicators; and
      6. Recurrent expenditures on defense are a maximum of FBU 49.4 billion in 2005, FBU 36.1
         billion in 2006 and FBU 23.8 billion in 2007. At the same time, expenditures on health and
         education combined increase by FBU 6.7 billion in 2006 and FBU 19 billion in 2007.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and key indicators, and
         reasons/justification: N/A

1.4      Main Beneficiaries:

8.     Below are the original tables from the technical annex detailing the target groups for the two
phases of the DRRP. Stage 1 for the first year and stage 2 for years 2-4.

Figure 1. Original tables of estimated target groups




                                                       3
1.5    Original components [as approved]:

9.      Component 1 ­ Demobilization. STAGE 1: The demobilization of 9,000 ex-combatants from
the APPMs and 5,000 soldiers of the FAB would be completed in a period of approximately six months
during stage I of the DRRP. This component includes verification of combatant status, registration and
distribution of ID cards, socio-economic data gathering, pre-demobilization orientation, medical
screening and voluntary counseling and testing for HIV/AIDS and transport to communities of return.

STAGE 2: Stage II demobilization would be undertaken during years 2-4. During which 41,000
personnel of the NDF would be demobilized. This process would be more gradual during stage II, and
would be undertaken from a single Demobilization Centre. The procedures would be identical to those
in stage I.




                                                  4
10.   Component 2 ­ Reinsertion. All ex-combatants receive a transitional subsistence allowances
(TSA) based on salary levels of FAB soldiers and providing for basic resettlement needs of ex-
combatants over a period of 18 months.

11.     Component 3 ­ Reintegration. Reintegration assistance was provided to help ex-combatants
return and/or settle in a community and establish sustainable livelihoods. This included:

      -   information and referral
      -   counseling
      -   advocacy from the implementing agency to local communities
      -   training (vocational, on-the-job training, and apprenticeship)
      -   micro-projects (small-scale agriculture, livestock keeping, fisheries, handicraft, construction,
          services or trade) and micro-finance
      -   access to land: facilitation for ex-combatants' requests according to established procedures (but
          not amounting to the acquisition of land)
      -   social reintegration

12.      Component 4 - Customized reintegration assistance for special groups. Special groups
included children ex-combatants (as defined by the Cape Town Principles3), who were initially assisted
via an MDRP special project implemented by the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF); female ex-
combatants and disabled ex-combatants. The customized assistance entailed among others separate
facilities for the encampment of women and children ex-combatants, medical assistance and
rehabilitation for disabled ex-combatants, counseling activities at the community level with partners and
women associated with ex-combatants, and gender awareness for the implementing agency and
implementing partners.

1.6       Revised Components:

N/A

1.7       Other significant changes:

13.     Over the course of the project, negotiations with the FNL did not succeed in time to incorporate
the ex-combatants from this group in the Demobilization and Reintegration activities. Furthermore, the
verification process for the status of combatant and registrations showed that the original size and
composition of the different fighting forces in Burundi had been largely overestimated. This resulted in a
much smaller number of eligible beneficiaries to be assisted. Overall, the project has supported nearly
100% of combatants eligible and opting for reincorporation into civilian life. This translates to a number
of ca. 26,000 beneficiaries.




3
 Cape Town Principles ­ UNICEF [1997] Cape Town Principles and Best Practices on the Recruitment of Children into the
Armed Forces and on Demobilization and Social Reintegration of Child Soldiers in Africa.


                                                          5
                     2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry:

14.     The Government had made significant progress towards peace and stabilization in 2003 after the
signature of the 2000 Arusha peace accords and the November 2003 cease-fire agreement with the
CNDD-FDD. This provided the overall framework for subsequent negotiations and agreements in
Burundi. A proactive role of the Government and the political momentum behind the peace process were
positive factors for the preparation, design and quality of the project at its inception. They were
especially instrumental to the integration process whereby ex-combatants from APPMs integrated the
national forces. Only strong political will from the Government could guarantee the buy-in from the
FAB, then the national army, and confidence-building amongst all armed groups set to integrate the
national army. Although outside the scope of the project, these were determining factors throughout
inception and implementation.

15.      The dire economic situation was a key factor affecting implementation of the reintegration
component. After signing peace agreements in the early 2000s, the country did not experience a bounce
in GDP growth as is generally the case when some degree of `post-conflict' stability resumes. With a
population of about 8 million distributed over 27,834 square kilometers, Burundi has one of the highest
population densities in Africa and is ranked the third poorest country in the world according to the latest
World Development Indicators.4 The country is landlocked and thus depends on the extremely degraded
road and rail infrastructure of its neighbors to conduct international trade. 63 percent of the population
suffers from food insecurity. Agriculture, which provides 94 percent of all employment, 80 percent of
export revenues and 40 percent of the aggregate GDP, is marked by a high dependency on coffee
exports and low levels of investment from the private sector.5 Poverty is deeper and more pervasive in
rural areas, and substantial disparity exists between regions. Almost 97 percent of Burundi's poor live in
rural areas, which have a poverty incidence of 69 percent, compared to 34 percent in urban areas.
Against this challenging background, socio-economic reintegration activities were intended to support
ex-combatants in establishing a livelihood and sustain themselves and their dependents. However the
weakness of the private sector and infrastructure limited the opportunities to generate wealth. It must be
noted that reintegration was meant to act as an equalizer and not an opportunity for higher incomes. One
of the key indicators for reintegration was therefore that average income levels of ex-combatants are
similar to average community incomes in their communities of settlement within 24 months of their
demobilization.

16.     Project design benefited from lessons learned from past Bank operations such as the Burundi
Community Rehabilitation project financed by the Post Conflict Fund in 2001, but also past
reintegration projects in Rwanda and Ethiopia. The World Bank had gained experience in working in a
fragile environment and established a level of confidence with the Government instrumental to national
ownership. Among the lessons learned were :




4
 World Development Indicators Database, World Bank, revised April 24 2009.
5
 World Bank working paper No. 147 [May, 2008], Breaking the cycle, A Strategy for Conflict-Sensitive Rural Growth in
Burundi.


                                                           6
           a. Demobilization. The assembly of ex-combatants during the demobilization phase
              provides a good opportunity for HIV/AIDS voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), as
              well as the dissemination of information about program benefits and civilian life.
           b. Reinsertion. During this period, ex-combatants require a transitional safety net to cover
              their families' basic material needs.
           c. Economic reintegration. Targeted support is advisable to help ex-combatants establish
              sustainable livelihoods. In order to be useful and cost-effective, such assistance should be
              tailored to their socio-economic profile and adjusted to the economic environment.
              Female ex-combatants often require specialized support to re-establish sustainable
              livelihoods. In general, ex-combatants should receive no more support than is necessary
              to help them attain the general standard of living of the communities into which they
              reintegrate. Furthermore, reintegration assistance should be limited in time to avoid the
              creation of a dependency syndrome. Information, counseling and referral services can
              assist ex-combatants to assess their livelihood options and find employment.
              Apprenticeships in the informal sector combine the benefits of vocational training and
              employment and are thus preferable to training only. Micro-projects can help ex-
              combatants secure their economic independence through self-employment. Microprojects
              are, however, complex interventions that require significant administrative capacity and a
              stable environment.
           d. Social reintegration. Ex-combatants should be encouraged to reintegrate in the vicinity
              of their extended families. Informal networks of ex-combatants can be important
              elements to successful economic and social reintegration.
           e. Child ex-combatants should be reunified with their families wherever possible, and
              assisted to resume their education or enter into gainful enterprise.
           f. Disabled ex-combatants commonly require specialized medical and assistance in
              overcoming the constraints of the disability.
           g. Institutional issues. Program coordination by a single civilian agency with overall
              program responsibility, balanced by decentralization of implementation to regions and
              communities makes for a powerful institutional arrangement. The employment of ex-
              combatants as counselors and field staff can facilitate reintegration. In peacekeeping
              environments such as in Burundi, close operational linkages between the national
              implementation body and the peacekeeping force are essential.

17.     The project was designed with original key features that reflected the specificity of the D&R
operations and allowed for greater flexibility of the World Bank model for this kind of program. In
particular, the 2-phase approach was a response to the Burundi political context and the need to
demobilize members of armed groups first before progressively decreasing the size of the national
forces. Moreover, the project was designed over a 5-year period as opposed to the traditional 3 year
lifespan of regular Bank operations. Finally, the overall structure of the MDRP as a regional program
with trust funds available for financing of operations created an unprecedented level of donor
coordination on the ground as well as flexible and adapted financing mechanisms.

18.     Risks were accurately identified in the project's technical annex. Yet, some of the measures set
up to mitigate these risks proved to be insufficient. For example, program-specific risks which were
identified, such as the limited capacity or the repartition of Government expenditures, were not
adequately addressed in the mitigation measures proposed. Indeed mitigations measures for low capacity



                                                    7
such as careful monitoring and technical assistance to the Executive Secretariat throughout
implementation were put in place but their scope was too limited, allowing for inadequate management
and important delays in implementation, particularly for the reintegration component.

19.     Reintegration was planned as a short-term assistance to be linked with longer-term recovery
projects such as a planned UNDP community-based development project. This intentionally short-term
view was chosen for two main reasons. From lessons learned from other similar projects, the objective
was to avoid perceptions amongst the population that perpetrators of violence were being rewarded.
Short-term reintegration assistance was intended to provide just the sufficient amount of initial support
for ex-combatants to return to their communities. The second reason pertained to the synergies planned
with longer-term, community-based recovery programs that would assist the entire community and
allow for reintegration in the process. The UNDP had notably started preparation of such a project at the
time of design, but broad-based community recovery efforts never materialized due to several reasons,
mainly associated with continued insecurity in rural areas caused by the FNL-PALIPEHUTU forces.

2.2       Implementation:

20.     The implementation was characterized by an efficient demobilization and reinsertion process but
also by important delays in the reintegration component. The main reasons behind these delays were the
overall political process and low implementation capacity.

The political process. Three key processes had a direct impact on project implementation:

      -   The peace process became stalled after the FNL-PALIPEHUTU refused to enter the
          demobilization process along with the other armed groups identified in the Letter of
          Demobilization Policy issued by the Government. This had a significant impact on the activities
          carried out by the implementing agency but more importantly on the overall security context.
          Negotiations were ongoing after the 2006 cease-fire agreement between the newly elected
          Government and the FNL-PALIPEHUTU but were not finalized in time to allow for this armed
          group to participate in the project.
      -   The Forces Technical Agreement (FTA), negotiated between the transitional Government and
          the CNDD, was an essential component of the preparation of demobilization and reintegration
          activities, spelling out rank harmonization arrangements upon which reinsertion benefits are
          based. The political process leading up to the FTA experienced major delays and resulted in the
          first year of project effectiveness seeing very few activities on the ground.
      -   Finally, the 2005 elections had a major impact upon the Executive Secretariat, as former trained-
          up staff left and new members were recruited at the behest of the new Ministerial team,
          undermining the training and technical assistance components.

21.     Mid-term review and Institutional Capacity. The Bank's mid-term project review in June
2007 along with the four independent payment verification surveys highlighted the efficiency of the
implementation of the reinsertion component in the project. After receiving a first installment of the
reinsertion support on discharge, and within three months of their return to communities, beneficiaries
received a second tranche of the transitional subsistence allowance to cover their basic needs and start
income generating activities. The schedule of payments was respected throughout the project: a third
tranche was received after six months and a last tranche after nine months. All beneficiaries opened an



                                                      8
account in a local bank, facilitating the transaction and 98.89% claimed to have received their payments
on-time and in the right amount. Earlier, in 2005, upon the request of the Bank task team, an assessment
on the institutional capacity of the Executive Secretariat had been conducted. This highlighted structural
inefficiencies with the Secretariat and the need for more technical assistance and supervision for the
National Commission. In particular, the assessment recommended further decentralization at the
provincial levels and clarification of the role of the financial department6. Following this report, this
department was restructured to encompass logistics and procurement as well. However, most of the
assessment recommendations were not applied, such as the recruitment of a technical assistant to
support the project coordinator, and hence the 2007 mid-term review noted continuing capacity
weaknesses. The review revealed management issues at the level of the Executive Secretariat causing
delays in the contracting of implementing partners for the reintegration component. The review led to
the downgrade of the project's progress to achievement of PDOs to moderately unsatisfactory. In the
Aide Memoire of the mid-term review the mission "strongly urged the SE/CNDRR to reduce unit costs
per ex-combatant and the overall management costs of the program, which are both found too high."7 It
also insisted that the CNDRR itself would be much more actively involved in the oversight of the
program which would also be increasingly decentralized. The issue of supervision from the CNDRR
over to the Executive Secretariat remained ongoing throughout the project. As identified in the mid-term
review, the political and strategic guidance that were supposed to be provided by the CNDRR were
largely lacking after the successful 2005 elections. This caused the Executive Secretariat to freewheel
for the second phase of demobilization and most importantly, for the implementation of the reintegration
component. It is only later in the process, in 2007, that a new leadership within the Commission made
the program a priority again for the Government, which was reflected at the level of the Secretariat by
the contracting of implementing partners for the reintegration component and the vulnerable groups
component, along with the further demobilization of members of the NDF.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation:

22.     M&E Design. The monitoring and evaluation of the project was supported by the establishment
of a Management Information System (MIS) that would record and keep all data related to the ex-
combatants as they entered the demobilization camps and continued through the reinsertion and
reintegration process, as well as data on service providers and benefits. Monitoring was designed at all
levels: central, provincial and in the communes: sample surveys were planned bi-annually to verify that
benefits had been delivered to the beneficiaries and that reintegration activities were ongoing.
Independent evaluations were designed to include statistics on the reintegration of ex-combatants along
with a beneficiary assessment in order to capture qualitative data. A robust MIS system was installed
which comprised a considerable amount of socio-economic data. This data was to inform the design of
reintegration activities in response to the specific profiles of the beneficiary group.

23.    M&E implementation. The MIS was an efficient management tool as it allowed tracking of the
number of beneficiaries entering the program along with data on their age and gender. It functioned with
a well-designed, efficient system involving digital fingerprint scanners and cameras but also a fully
automated payment system for the delivery of reinsertion support. Four verification surveys were
conducted throughout the project with a substantial sample size (an average of 10% of the total number

6
  BINZEGGER [September, 2005] Institutional capacity assessment of the NCDRR Executive Secretariat, ACTS.
7
  Aide-memoire of the mid term review for the Burundi Emergency Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Project
[June, 2007]


                                                           9
of beneficiaries) and yielded a wealth of data on the situation of beneficiaries after demobilization.
Independent evaluations were also carried out by consultants competitively selected by the
implementing agency.

24.     M&E utilization. The MIS and verification surveys were used to track beneficiaries once they
were back in their communities and had started the reintegration activities. A qualitative study financed
by the program and conducted by international expert Peter Uvin exposed trends and dynamics amongst
beneficiaries, notably the difference between reintegration in rural and in urban settings. However
informative this study is, it must be noted that the size of the sample interviewed by Mr. Uvin is inferior
to 100, and bears no statistical value.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance:

25.    Safeguards. The project was classified as a category B for its income generating activities
component. Although the program had minimal social and environmental impacts due to the widely
dispersed and small-scale reintegration components, detailed social and environmental safeguard
arrangements were made at the inception stage. An environmental and social management framework
was going to be developed by the MDRP in collaboration with the Africa Region's Social and
Environmental Safeguards unit (ASPEN), although the operation did not require one since it was
processed under OP 8.50, the operational policy for Emergency Recovery Assistance. It must be noted
that such a framework failed to be produced. Social mitigation measures included ensuring: (i) no
involuntary resettlement was taking place and (ii) targeted assistance and equal access to benefits for
vulnerable populations such as Batwa ex-combatants, female ex-combatants and child soldiers.
Environmental mitigation measures included systematic screening of reintegration sub-project and
adequate disposal of medical waste. The systematic screening of sub-projects came as a mitigation
measure to compensate for the lack of a framework.

26.     Financial management. The initial risk analysis rated this project as high risk in the absence of
adequately trained personnel and therefore required a close monitoring from the Bank for activities
related to the financial management. Six safeguards had been built into the program to ensure IDA and
trust funds were utilized for the purposes intended. Among them for instance was the conditional
replenishment of the quick disbursement fund according to project performance. As concluded in the
final independent evaluation commissioned by the Government, the 18-month-long absence of an
Administration and Finance Director resulted in project mismanagement issues. The lack of internal
audits was also highlighted as a major issue. In October 2008 an investigation from a Governmental
commission was triggered leading to the firing of the head of the Executive Secretariat.

27.     Procurement. An assessment of the procurement capacity of the Executive Secretariat was
carried out during appraisal and concluded that the project was high risk. As a result, an international
procurement specialist was hired to help the implementing agency set up a detailed procurement plan.
However, the procurement service of the Executive Secretariat failed to appropriately implement
procurement procedures agreed upon with the World Bank especially with regards to publication of calls
for bids. This was highlighted in the final independent evaluation commissioned by the Government.8
The major issue related to procurement throughout the project was the lack of bidders with appropriate

8
 ACT Consultants and Case d'Afrique [December, 2008] Final evaluation of the National Demobilization, Reinsertion and
Reintegration Program, Analysis of Procurement procedures p. 56.


                                                          10
capacity to carry out the activities advertised. This lead to a high number of unconventional procedures
such as sole source selection which in turn created longer turnaround times to award contracts.
Insufficient supervision for ongoing contracts is a shared responsibility between the World Bank and the
Government, both of which were unable to provide appropriate guidance when conflicts on the contracts
arose between implementing partners and the Executive Secretariat. 2007 and 2008 were the busiest
years for procurement with contracting of implementing partners for the reintegration component as well
as the assistance for disabled ex-combatants. The project would have greatly benefited from more
supervision and technical assistance especially at that time.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase:

28.     The project supported the demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration of over 26,000 ex-
combatants over the course of 5 years which represents nearly 100% of eligible beneficiaries. As of
December 31, 2008 (closing date of the project) a small portion (estimated around 1,100) of
beneficiaries had not completed the program and were still awaiting reintegration assistance. This is
partly due to implementation delays but also to the late demobilization of elements in the national
forces. In parallel to the winding down of D&R activities under the first phase of the program,
negotiations progressed between Government and the FNL-PALIPEHUTU, which had abandoned the
ethnic reference in its name and split into two main groups, FNL-Rwasa and FNL-Dissidents. In April
2009 an agreement was reached regarding the numbers of eligible FNL ex-combatants for either
integration in the national forces or demobilization and reintegration. The Government has therefore
been maintaining a response capacity since the closing of the project in December 2008 in anticipation
of new D&R support to the last remaining armed group of the FNL, and has requested assistance from
the World Bank. A new project to address the limited pending caseload from the past project and the
demobilization and reintegration of the FNL is currently under preparation in the Africa region Fragile
States, Conflict and Social Development unit (AFTCS) as a stand-alone project.

                                        3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation:

29.     Relevance is rated highly substantial because D&R remains highly relevant in Burundi. The
project was established based on the Arusha peace agreement and the subsequent request from the
Government for assistance in demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants. D&R is a short-term,
vital phase of the transition from conflict to stability and in the case of Burundi has led to the
establishment of social peace and of a unified national army. The project continues to be in line with
Bank assistance strategy as highlighted in the 2008 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Burundi
outcome: 2.1 Improved reintegration of ex-combatants and vulnerable groups9. A follow-up project is
currently under preparation to continue to support Burundi in its efforts to demobilize and reintegrate
ex-combatants remaining from the caseload of the previous project and ex-combatants from the FNL.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives:



9
  Report No 44193-BI, IDA and IFC Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Burundi for the period FY09-FY12,
[July 8, 2008].


                                                          11
PDO 1: Demobilize an estimated 55,000 ex-combatants from the FAB, members of APPMs, and
subsequently the NDF, and support their reintegration into civilian life.


30.     This PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory ­ only moderate due to the weakness of the
reintegration component and the program management issues (but not due to the discrepancy in initial
targets and final output).

31.     There is a difference between the first PDO and actual program outcomes. The PDO stated that
services for D&R would be available for all eligible combatants up to a ceiling of 55,000. Only slightly
over 26,000 have been supported in the project. While this may be interpreted as a failure to achieve the
objective, the number supported represents 100% of the eligible combatants for demobilization in
Burundi and as such, the project has achieved this goal, albeit below the full utilization of the available
capacity. The discrepancy between the initial target numbers and the number of beneficiaries assisted is
due to (i) an overestimation of the original size and composition of the different fighting forces in
Burundi, and (ii) the delays in the political negotiations with the last rebel force in the country, the FNL-
PALIPEHUTU.

The table below is extracted from the final independent evaluation commissioned by the Government
and shows the progression of the demobilization activities throughout the project.

Figure 2. Number of individuals demobilized each year by the ES/NCDRR




32.    Linkages between the main outcomes of this project and the outputs are evaluated in the table
below.

Figure 3. Table on outcomes and outputs

               Outcome                                   Linkage with output
1. All armed groups except the FNL are Strong: demobilization through the demobilization
demobilized                            centers operated by the implementing agency.



                                                     12
2. Ex-combatants not selected for Modest: the reinsertion grant allowed ex-combatants to
integration in the army return to civilian cover their basic needs and start an income generating
life                                       activity but their successful reintegration in the
                                           community depends on many factors including a
                                           preexisting social/family network. Evidence has shown
                                           for instance that ex-combatants in rural areas had better
                                           chances of social reintegration than ex-combatants in
                                           urban settings.10 If one considers the varying quality of
                                           reintegration activities, it becomes difficult to clearly
                                           establish a causal relation between reintegration outputs
                                           and outcomes.


33.     Transitional Subsistence Allowance (TSA) grants were successfully transferred to beneficiaries
in a timely and efficient manner. The 4th payment verification survey on 3,463 demobilized ex-
combatants illustrates how the reinsertion allowance was spent. On average, 22.32% was used for the
satisfaction of basic needs, 15.58% to start income-generating activities, 15.04% to build a house and
14.81% for the purchase of live stock11.

34.     Targeted assistance for vulnerable groups was provided by implementing partners. Child soldiers
were separated from adults at the early stage of the process and supported thereafter by an MDRP
special project implemented by UNICEF. Disabled ex-combatants received targeted medical assistance
including rehabilitation treatment. Their assistance suffered from significant delays due to the late
contracting of implementing partners and delays in purchasing of necessary prosthetic material (some of
the prosthetic material was only made available to the implementing partner in the fall of 2008).

35.     Outcomes from the reintegration component are mixed. Qualitative data gathered in verification
surveys and independent studies suggest that ex-combatants successfully transitioned to civilian life and
have been widely accepted in their communities. However, the success of economic reintegration and
establishment of a sustainable livelihood is uneven. The reintegration component suffered from weak
implementation throughout the project. Other external factors also affected results, such as the failure of
international partners to launch planned development projects to bridge the gap between the short-term
assistance provided by the project and more sustainable reintegration. At the planning stage, the World
Bank task team was instrumental in setting up a strategy for reintegration. A workshop was organized in
2005 following the publication of a report written by an international consultant setting out the
reintegration strategy for the project. This plan was not effectively followed. In turn, reintegration
activities and contracts for implementing partners were delayed during the first year of implementation
when the Executive Secretariat was organizing demobilization. Once bids were made to recruit
implementing partners to carry out reintegration activities, very few qualified bidders materialized to
implement the activities. Lack of oversight from the NCDRR allowed ex-combatants to obtain funding
for "micro-projects" that were in fact simple monetary exchanges. Indeed, many ex-combatants would
use their reintegration grant to purchase grain, goats or beer and resell in order to pocket the cash.
Although it is debatable whether this constitutes failed reintegration, it is clear that the reintegration
component as it was planned was poorly executed. Communication and sensitization activities were also

10
     Findings from Uvin [2007].
11
     Butoyi [July, 2008]. Quatrième Enquête de Vérification des Paiements des Allocations de Réinsertion : Rapport d'Enquête


                                                              13
insufficient to address the ongoing issue of high expectations from the ex-combatants regarding
reintegration activities. Finally, linkages with broader-recovery projects were weak due to the very few
number of development programs set up during the lifetime of the project.

Key indicators for the reintegration component were:

       1.      Ex-combatants have access to reintegration assistance within nine months of their
       demobilization.
       2.      At least 40% of ex-combatants are engaged in sustainable income-generating activities
       within 18 months of demobilization.
       3.      Average income levels of ex-combatants are similar to average community incomes in
       their communities of settlement within 24 months of their demobilization.

36.     Another key issue lies in the delay between the return to the community and the beginning of the
reintegration activities. Indicator 1 allowed for a maximum of nine months between the two but a survey
realized by the Burundi National Institute for Statistics in 2008 showed the average delay between
demobilization and receipt of grant was one year. Indicator 2 has been attained: preliminary data
indicates that 55% of beneficiaries are engaged in income-generating activities. Indicator 3 is likely to
be attained although longer-term surveys will be needed to assess this.

37.     A second important issue was the lack of communication and sensitization activities around the
reintegration component. Whereas reintegration activities were intended to be provided by implementing
partners in the form of trainings and funding for sustainable micro-projects, they were widely perceived
by beneficiaries as further monetary compensation. Anecdotal evidence suggests that ex-combatants
were aware of the amount budgeted per capita for their reintegration by the implementing partners (FBU
600,000). This resulted in the misconception that ex-combatants expected to receive this amount in cash
instead of receiving it in the form of training and other activities. Furthermore, a lack of an aggressive
communication strategy on the part of the Government led to widely held misperceptions on the project
amongst the population. If bad news was relayed extensively in the media, good news was never
communicated. For instance the publication of the survey on the impact of reintegration in 2008 showed
substantial results and could have been used as a communication tool. As one of the key informants for
this ICR puts it: "The timid communication arrangements put the project on the defensive, thus further
reducing ownership by the Government."

PDO 2: Support the reinsertion of an estimate 20,000 Gardiens de la paix militia of Government
and approximately 10,000 Combattants militants militia of the APPMs.

38.      This PDO is rated highly satisfactory. Each eligible beneficiary from the Gardiens de la paix or
combattants militants received one-time payment for reinsertion of 100,000 FBU (~ 80 USD). A total of
18,709 Gardiens de la paix and 9,674 Combattants militants received the grant. Although external to the
project, it must be noted that the reinsertion process was not without protests among the population and
issues related to the lists of beneficiaries from these two groups. The outcome for this PDO is similar to
the outcome listed in PDO1: demobilization and reintegration into civilian life. However, the objective
for this group was strictly limited to distribution of the "recognition-of-service allowance".




                                                   14
PDO 3: Contribute to the reallocation of Government expenditure from defense to social and
economic sectors over a period of five years.

39.    This PDO is rated moderately unsatisfactory. While education and health expenditures
continuously increased and defense expenditures decreased, the overall security sector expenditures
grew overtime due to increased military, police and interior security expenditures.

The original performance indicator for this PDO:

Figure 4. Table on PDO 3

                              2005                       2006                      2007
Defense                       FBU 49.4 billion           FBU 36.1 billion          FBU 23.8 billion
expenditures                  max.                       max.                      max.
Health &                                                 + FBU 6.7 billion         + FBU 19 billion
Education
combined

40.     The actual evolution of Burundi public budget expenditures is detailed in the 2008 Burundi CAS:
"The Government has increased public expenditure allocations to priority sectors over the past six
years. Demobilization has reduced defense expenditures, but the increase in the police force has more
than offset the savings."

Figure 5. Total public expenditure (domestically financed, current FBu billion)


                       2001              2002           2003              2004           2005           2006     2007       2008

                   actual            actual         actual            actual         actual         actual      revised    revised
                 expenditure       expenditure    expenditure       expenditure    expenditure    expenditure   budget     budget

                                                                FBu billion
Education       17.0              22.3           27.9              32.8           43.5           66.4               87.5       97.8
Health          3.7               3.8            4.0               4.7            5.2            9.9                16.0       34.5
Defense         34.0              38.4           40.0              42.7           43.3           47.9               53.6       57.6
Agriculture     1.9               2.0            1.9               2.1            2.2            3.2                 6.4       15.8
Energy and
Mines           0.5               0.3            0.4               0.6            0.6            2.1                 4.7        5.2
Transport and
Telecom         0.5               0.6            0.3               0.7            0.8            0.6                 1.5        2.3
Public works    1.1               1.5            1.5               2.1            2.2            4.5                 8.5       15.3
Other           19.5              25.4           30.8              35.3           51.2           73.7               95.2      138.2
Total           78.2              94.3           106.8             121.0          148.9          208.3             273.4      366.9
Source: Ministry of Finance, SIGEFI; excludes interest payments and amortization

41.     It is possible to establish linkages between the project's outputs (downsizing of the army) and the
outcome (decrease in defense expenditures). However, the overall increase in security sector spending
indicates that the risk of savings from the downsizing not being used to increase health and education
spending, identified in the technical annex, has not been completely averted. It must be noted that this
risk had been identified as external and as such, the available mitigation measures were limited.


                                                                   15
3.3    Efficiency:

42.     Efficiency is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. Although the number of beneficiaries assisted
was less than half of the maximum number planned for at inception stage with a little over 23,000 adult
ex-combatants demobilized, 76% of the budget for reintegration was utilized as of December 2008. The
Executive Secretariat allowed significant cost overruns while failing to provide timely reintegration
assistance and efficiently award contracts to implementing partners. Financial management was
downgraded in the last ISR of the project to moderately unsatisfactory to reflect poor management of
funds and potential cases of ineligible expenses. As of today, approximately 30% of the project's budget
(ca. US$20 million) remains undisbursed.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating:

Rating: moderately satisfactory

43.     The overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory based on highly substantial relevance, an
average of moderately satisfactory PDOs, and moderately unsatisfactory efficiency. The main objective
of the project was to contribute to peace and stability in Burundi by supporting the efforts of the
Government to demobilize and reintegrate up to 55,000 ex-combatants from national forces and armed
political parties and movements. With the notable exception of combatants from the FNL-Rwasa and
FNL-Dissidents, which was beyond the control of the project, this objective has been widely achieved.
A unified army is now functioning and considered by key informants as a source of stability for the
country. Over 26,000 ex-combatants have been demobilized including over 3,000 child soldiers.
Reinsertion grants have been delivered on schedule to close to 100% of beneficiaries. Reintegration
outcomes, although mixed, have allowed for a peaceful return of ex-combatants to their communities.
However the efficiency of the project was undermined by poor management from the implementing
agency, the overall objective of decrease in the defense budget was not fully achieved and the
reintegration component partly failed to provide ex-combatants with long-term development solutions.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts:

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

44.     Female ex-combatants were identified in the project as part of those vulnerable groups requiring
targeted assistance. This assistance included separate living areas in demobilization centers for female
ex-combatants and their children, specialized medical screening in the demobilization centers, gender
sensitization for implementing agency personnel, promotion of female associations and involvement of
spouses during reintegration activities. However an ongoing issue remained eligibility since female
individuals were rarely given the status of ex-combatant. The project attempted to circumvent this issue
by including families and spouses in reintegration activities however this method only partially
addressed the issue. Analytical work was conducted on youth in Burundi and the impact of the conflict
on gender norms.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening




                                                  16
45.      Institutional strengthening was not a component of the project as D&R activities are transitional
by nature. The institutions in charge of implementation are not intended to outlast the demobilization of
the last remaining armed group. The follow-up phase intends to phase out and mainstream most of the
longer-term activities related to pensions and special assistance to the relevant ministries. However, it is
worth noting that this project is has allowed a national agency, in this case the CNDRR, to run a DDR
program by itself, as opposed to many DDR projects implemented by international partners. Although
the CNDRR will not be sustained after the demobilization of the last remaining armed group, the
institutional experience gathered during this process along with the phasing out of activities to line
ministries allow significant institutional strengthening within the GoB altogether.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

46.   There are no unintended outcomes and impacts that are measured. The spread of HIV in the
demobilization centers had been included as a risk and mitigation measures were adopted such as
HIV/AIDS sensitization, voluntary counseling and testing in the centers.

47.     Although there is no hard data supporting this, anecdotal evidence suggests that reintegration
activities in the communities fostered the creation of ex-combatant associations.

48.     One of the larger outcomes of the project is related to the overall peace process and security
sector reform exercise. Indeed, the army integration process could not have gone forward without the
"exit valve" provided by the project for those not eligible for integration. In this regard, the project acted
as a "catalyst" for progress towards peace and stability in Burundi and was a key element of the peace
process.


3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops:

49.     Throughout the project, monitoring and evaluation activities produced a wealth of data on the
status of beneficiaries of the program. A beneficiary survey was conducted in 2006 on the reintegration
of children associated with armed forces, assisted in an MDRP special project with UNICEF. The results
from this survey are briefly discussed although child soldiers were not beneficiaries of the national
project. Although no formal beneficiary survey was conducted for the project, four extensive surveys
have been conducted (August 2005, December 2005, June 2007 and July 2008) and these rendered key
information on the social and economic status of beneficiaries. These four surveys initially aimed at
verifying that payment had indeed been transmitted for the TSA and other assistance, but the quality of
the data gathered and the size of the sample (in average 10% of target population) make them extremely
informative beyond verification of payment. They indicate for instance how cash transfer or kits were
used. In addition, an impact evaluation was conducted in 2008 on social economic reintegration and
produced useful data such as whether skills acquired at training had been used since. For this evaluation
377 ex-combatants were selected from a population of 6,513 reintegrated ex-combatants through
random sampling from 36 communities after stratification by regional bureau.

50.     Unemployment:
The third verification survey showed 69.1% of ex-combatants had set up an income generating activity.
In the 2008 study on reintegration, 12.4% of ex-combatants were marked as unemployed (5% said they



                                                     17
were unemployed but had worked before and 2.9% said they were unemployed and had never worked
before).12
55% of ex-combatants interviewed said they were able to satisfy at least one of the following basic
needs: access to potable water, decent housing, adequate clothing, eating at least twice a day, children's
education, and healthcare. 22% said they could cover two and 14% said they could cover three of these
needs. Only 2% of those interviewed said they could satisfy all six of the basic needs listed.13

51.     Comparison with the remainder of the community:
In the 2008 survey, 42.8% of ex-combatants stated that their socio-economic situation was worse than
that of their former colleagues or members of their community, but another 38.4% said it was the same.
Relative housing perceptions varied widely by survey. 38.6% of child ex-combatants said their housing
conditions were the same as those of others in the village, but 19.3% said their housing was much worse
while only .7% said theirs was much better than other housing in the village. Child ex-combatants were
also asked about their households' ownership of animals and land relative to their community. The mode
for both responses was "less" (25.6% for animals and 40.4% for land) than the average for the
community, but the next entry with the highest responses was "same" (10.2% and 21.8%, respectively).
The same pattern followed for food ­ 46.0% of child ECs believed that they had less to eat than other
people in their community, and 31.9% felt they had the same amount.

52.     Relative poverty:
One of the two surveys using the ladder diagram specifically labeled the 6 rungs as "very rich," "rich,"
"comfortable," "average (can get by)," "poor," and "very poor." Most responded "average (can get by),"
with 37.3% of responses. 31.3% and 5.0% of respondents said they were "poor" and "very poor,"
respectively. Interviewees were also asked about their position just after demobilization. 41.3% of
respondents indicated a higher level for their position at demobilization than at present, while 35.7%
indicated a lower position. 22.9% indicated the same level for both periods.


                             4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Significant

53.     The risk is rated significant for two main reasons: (i) the overall political context in Burundi
remains uncertain and the upcoming 2010 elections could provide momentum for civil unrest and
political instability; (ii) the long-term results of reintegration activities cannot be measured in the short-
term and will be observed overtime. The follow-up phase for the demobilization and reintegration of the
FNL will provide an opportunity to establish the occurrence of "recycling", when a previously
demobilized beneficiary attempts to pose as an ex-combatant again. Registration and verification against
pre-existing lists from the DRRP could provide the supporting data for this analysis.


                      5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
5.1       Bank Performance


12
     ISTEEBU (2008). Evaluation de l'Impact de Réintégration Economique et Sociale.
13
     ISTEEBU (2008).


                                                            18
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:

Rating: satisfactory

54.     Bank performance at entry is rated as satisfactory. Project preparation was highly relevant to the
country context and the Bank's assistance strategy. The financing arrangements put in place with the
complementarity of IDA funds and the multi-donor trust fund allowed for a flexible and responsive
assistance to the borrower's needs. Risks identified were appropriate especially with regards to financial
management risk ratings and mitigation measures. The excellent turnover time for the preparation of this
operation justifies the satisfactory rating as it was able to respond to a critically urgent need from the
Government in a timely yet efficient manner.

(b) Quality of Supervision:

Rating: moderately satisfactory

55.    The quality of supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory. The Bank team devoted significant
resources for the supervision of this project, with extended missions at least 4 times a year from 2004 to
2008. Moreover, from 2005 to 2008 a full-time position was financed in the Bujumbura country office to
supervise the project. Three TTLs succeeded each other at the head of the project during the 5 years of
preparation and implementation. Although these transitions did not severely affect the project, the team
was not fully able to maintain continuity in supervision and data collection. Notwithstanding the fact
that missions from the task team were significantly more frequent than for any regular Bank operation,
and that an MDRP representative was based in Bujumbura, even stronger supervision was needed, as
was identified by all stakeholders interviewed for this ICR.

56.     The original structure of the MDRP as an umbrella regional program provided the team with the
flexibility to supervise, provide technical assistance and commission analytical work. However this
original funding mechanism did not always allow for assistance to be fully targeted and adapted to
country-specific parameters such as the low capacity. Donor partners have argued that the project would
have benefited from a more targeted, country-specific program without specifying exactly why.

57.     Financial management, although identified early as a high risk for the project, did not benefit
from enough technical assistance and supervision. This lead to blockages in cash flow and a lack of
transparency. This in turn resulted in delays for the selection of implementing partners, and a potential
case of mismanagement currently under internal investigation by the Government (INT was alerted and
is currently reviewing the case).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: moderately satisfactory

58.     Bank's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. One important lesson learned is that the
Bank's business model has to be further adapted to operations in fragile states to allow for enhanced
supervision. A stronger presence on the ground has been widely identified by partners as a necessity for
this type of project.



                                                   19
5.2     Borrower Performance:
NOTE: Government and implementing agency being indistinguishable, rating and justification are only provided for overall
borrower performance.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: moderately unsatisfactory

59.     Borrower's performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. It is important to note that this
project was implemented in a transitional environment, until the elections of 2005, which did not allow
for continuity within the Executive Secretariat. The generally weak capacity must also be factored in the
rating. Mismanagement issues and delays in implementation have nonetheless hindered the efficiency of
the project and justify this rating.

60.    At the inception stage, the Government, particularly the NCDRR and Ministry of Defense,
showed great political will and pro-activeness in preparing the project and working with the task team.
However after successful elections in 2005 priorities at the Government level shifted and the project
team noted an increasing lack of oversight from the NCDRR over the Executive Secretariat. This lack of
oversight impacted upon the implementation of the project especially in the reintegration component.

61.     The 2005 institutional capacity assessment highlighted numerous structural issues that were only
partially addressed. The heavily hierarchical structure of the Executive Secretariat created significant
delays in implementation. The level of "counselors" was identified as superfluous for instance, and was
later removed. Moreover, lack of transparency in the division of labor and roles and functions of each
position hindered efficacy. Human resources, procurement and financial management were key areas
where the consultants identified a need for further technical assistance and restructuring. The
decentralization of decision-making and application of operations plans at the provincial and local levels
was encouraged by the authors of the report. However these recommendations were only superficially
followed.

62.      A potential financial mismanagement case is currently under investigation by a special
commission of the Government. This case has been transmitted to the World Bank's Department of
Institutional Integrity and is currently being reviewed.




                                                           20
                                              6. LESSONS LEARNED

Most lessons learned identified below have been included in the preparation of the next phase for
demobilization and reintegration14.

Demobilization

                           Improved demobilization center counseling and sensitization. Counseling must
                           be better tailored to the profile of each ex-combatant, and classes be more
                           practical than theoretical.
                           Enhanced security around demobilization camps
                           Demobilized identification card retrieved upon departure from the camp to
                           allow for better social reintegration

Reinsertion

                           Incentive mechanism to encourage beneficiaries to use interim transitional
                           support in a sustainable manner.

                           Parallel "Indemnité Transitoire de Subsistance" (ITS) and training, followed
                           immediately by reintegration. Although not initially conceived this way, ITS
                           payments were paid out and then training and reintegration occurred later,
                           sometimes much later. To make ends meet in the interim, many ex-combatants,
                           particularly in urban settings, went into debt, and were forced to sell their
                           reintegration activity inputs to settle their accounts. Ensuring the correct phasing
                           of ITS and reintegration activities can mitigate this problem, and allow for a
                           more logical progression of support, learning and implementation.
Reintegration

                           Synergies with wider development activities. The short-term approach to
                           reintegration in the last phase fell short when other long-term development
                           initiatives did not come on line as expected. To ensure maximum exploitation of
                           all possible synergies the following options can be considered: (i) continuous
                           mapping of wider national development activities that exist or are coming on
                           line; (ii) continuous outreach to relevant organizations on possibilities for
                           referral or ways to integrate reintegration activities into their overall
                           programming; and (iii) a referral mechanism to assist ex-combatants to exploit
                           such opportunities in their communities. From the beneficiary perspective,
                           dovetailing the program's transitional reintegration support with long-term
                           global development assistance will multiply activity gains and the likelihood of
                           sustainability. From the programmatic perspective, this will ultimately allow for


14
 Emergency Project Paper for the proposed Emergency Demobilization and Transitional Reintegration project in Burundi,
Annex 8 "Lessons learned from EDRRP".


                                                          21
   mainstreaming of ex-combatant reintegration activities, allowing for a phase-out
   of such activities through the national D&R program.
   Quality of training and follow-up. For reasons of parity with past beneficiaries,
   material reintegration entitlements cannot be changed. However, the quality and
   intensity of both training and follow-up should be reinforced, in the
   acknowledgement that wider development efforts are still limited in Burundi
   and economic growth is weak. For some ex-combatants, D&R reintegration
   support may comprise a major part of their overall development assistance. An
   effort should also be made to ensure that training content is better adapted to the
   target groups in question. Some combatants have had little or no schooling and
   need more basic skills and a different kind of follow-up to increase their
   chances of success at their chosen reintegration activity. Additionally, the
   training should be differentiated by age and gender.
   Reintegration activities adapted to Burundi's job market and opportunities.
   Promote labor-intensive public works for reintegration activities and establish
   monitoring mechanisms at the implementing partners' level to continuously
   assess the economic opportunities in the community of resettlement.
   Strong encouragement of spouse and family participation. Spouses and families
   should be encouraged to participate at some or all stages of reintegration
   support (activity choice, training, and implementation) by all implementing
   partners. The involvement of spouses and families in reintegration activities has
   been shown to increase the chances of their sustainability, but spousal
   involvement in Burundi has been low. This issue must be addressed in a more
   coherent manner. Possibilities for community involvement/support should also
   be identified.
   Encouragement of ex-combatant participation in associations. Associations can
   be an important means to social reintegration and economic security. They are
   also another possible means of reinforcing sustainability and mainstreaming
   reintegration support, since associations can also apply for support via other
   development programs and initiatives.
   Establishment of "peer exchange" mechanisms for knowledge transfer among
   implementing partners and among ex-combatants. Exchange of experiences
   among implementing partners would enhance coherence of approach (largely
   lacking before) and the transfer of operational lessons. A peer-learning
   mechanism for ex-combatants could be an important means of increasing the
   chances for success in reintegration projects.
   Adapted assistance for children associated with the armed forces that have
   children themselves. Reintegration support for children should be adapted to
   take into account those older "children" and/or almost adults, especially those
   with their own families.
   Greater consideration and inclusion of the psycho-social aspect. Psychosocial
   treatment capacity in Burundi is extremely low, and there are few (if any)
   talking therapy options for the general population. Psychosocial support in the



                              22
                       last program depended on the capacity and discretion of individual
                       implementing partners, and referrals largely resulted in vouchers for medication
                       at the one psychiatric center in Burundi. Given the many psychological traumas
                       observed among ex-combatants, this issue should be discussed with the GoB
                       and partners to see if any better solutions can be found, including how to
                       address traumas related to gender-based violence for female ex-combatants.

Institutional mechanisms and processes

                       Project implementation by a small technical coordination team. The TCT
                       should be staffed with competitively recruited technical personnel. This would
                       counter past institutional weaknesses associated with its political nature
                       interfering with technical capacity.
                       Highly qualified financial and procurement staff, reinforced by an independent
                       international consultant to verify financial and procurement tasks. Such an
                       arrangement would ensure improved financial and procurement procedures
                       following irregularities in project financing and procurement observed in the
                       last project.
                       Enhanced monitoring & evaluation. Proper and systematic registration of all
                       beneficiaries (biometric or other). Systematic data collection for tracking
                       purposes after demobilization.
                       A single-purpose multi-donor trust fund, with an associated steering committee
                       including GoB and donors. This would help preserve the same harmonization of
                       approach hitherto carried out through the MDRP framework.
                       An active role for the NCDRR. The NCDRR did not fulfill its policy role in any
                       active sense until relatively recently when a delegate was appointed to act in the
                       President's stead. This active guidance has proved crucial to resolving
                       challenges at many levels, and it must continue.

Other
                       Communication and sensitization activities must be proactive, not reactive.
                       There was virtually no pre-emptive strategic communications effort during the
                       last program. Many negative reactions among beneficiaries could have been at
                       least minimized had there been adequate and constant targeted messaging to
                       various groups. The new project should ensure effective communication and
                       sensitization at different levels, including beneficiaries, the communities of
                       return, the general population as well as the donor community and other
                       partners such as the UN agencies.
                       Sensitization campaigns. Events on the national stage should be organized for
                       the population and public officials to educate on the scope and objectives of the
                       project.




                                                  23
      7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a)   Borrower/implementing agencies:

See Annex 6

(b)   Co-financiers:

See Annex 7

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

See Annex 7




                                                 24
                                                         ANNEXES


                                  ANNEX 1.         PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a)       Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                  Actual /Latest Estimate        Percentage of Appraisal
                                       Appraisal Estimate
            Components                                              31/12/2008
                                         (US$ million)
                                                                      (US$ million)
1. Demobilization                                  4.8                    2. 3                            47.92
2. Reinsertion                                    31.5                    16.8                            53.33
3. Reintegration                                  20.9                       16.0                         76.56
4. Technical assistance                            2.0                        2.4                        115.00
5. Program management                              8.8                        9.6                        107.95
6. Special target groups                          12.4                        5.4                         43.55
                 Total Baseline Cost              80.4                       52.3                         65.05
Physical Contingencies                              4
Price Contingencies                                 0
                 Total Project Costs              84.4
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                0.59                       0.59                           100
Front-end fee (IBRD only)                           0
         Total Financing Required                 84.4

(b)       Financing

                                                           Appraisal             Actual/Latest
                                                                                                        Percentage of
      Source of Funds       Type of Financing              Estimate                Estimate
                                                                                                         Appraisal
                                                         (US$ million)           (US$ million)
 [Government]              Borrower counterpart                 3.0                      0                   0%
                           financing
 [IBRD/IDA or GEF]         IDA                                 33.0                   33.0                 100%
 [MDRP regional TF]        WB-administered                     41.8                   41.8                 100%
                           MDTF
 Germany: German           Bilateral                            6.0                     0                    0%
 Technical Assistance
 Corporation (GTZ)




                                                             25
                            ANNEX 2.      OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT


Components                                                        Outputs
     1. Demobilization                    26,283 combatants demobilized (22,502 adult men, 516
                                          adult women, 3,121 children assisted through special
                                          project).
                                          26,283 ex-combatants received medical screening.
                                          40% of beneficiaries get tested for HIV/AIDS (voluntary).
                                          26,283 ex-combatants received pre-discharge orientation.
                                          18,709 Gardiens de la Paix dismantled.
                                          9,674 Militants Combattants dismantled .
      2. Reinsertion                      98.89% of ex-combatants opened a bank account.
                                           99.15% of ex-combatants demobilized received at least
                                          the first tranche of transitional subsistence allowance.
                                          23,022 (over 98%) have received all three tranches of
                                          reinsertion.
                                          18,709 Gardiens de la paix received their single
                                          reinsertion payment.
                                          9,674 Militants Combattants received their single
                                          reinsertion payment.
      3. Reintegration                    21,996 (83%) have received reintegration assistance:

                                          -   21,456 received funds and training for income-
                                              generating activities
                                          - 469 received vocational training
                                          - 71 enrolled in formal education
      4. Customized                       1,907 disabled ex-combatants have received medical
         reintegration assistance         support.
         for special groups               1,195 disabled ex-combatants have received specialized
                                          socio-economic reintegration support.
                                          3,261 child soldiers have been released from the armed
                                          forces, 3,259 reunited with their families (program run by
                                          UNICEF in parallel MDRP special project).
                                          516 female ex-combatants have received targeted medical
                                          assistance and socio-economic reintegration assistance.




                                               26
                             ANNEX 3.          ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

At its inception, the project performed an analysis of defense expenditure in relation to key economic
and financial data in order to assess the potential long-term impact of military downsizing on social and
economic development. Four main sources were used: (i) GDP and other macroeconomic data from the
IMF for 2000 to 2003, with projections for 2004 - 2006; (ii) the FAB salary structure; (iii) data on
expenditure from the Ministry of Finance; and (iv) data provided by Government in the Letter of
Demobilization Policy.

Analysis of defense expenditure. From 1992 to 2001, defense expenditure increased from 3.5% of
GDP to 8.0%. Nominal defense expenditure increased from FBU 30.5 billion in 1999 to FBU 45.6.3
billion in 2002.




Impact of Demobilization. The analysis of the impact of demobilization is based on several
assumptions, and is therefore only indicative15. Although 55,000 combatants would be demobilized
under the DREW, the calculation of the Program's fiscal impact is based on the planned net reduction in
force of the NDF of 20,000 from the current size of the FAB.
With demobilization completed during 2007, the net reduction in force of 20,000 NDF soldiers would
reduce defense expenditure by approximately FBU 22 billion (US$19.9 million) annually over the 2003
budget. The share of defense expenditure in total current expenditure would decrease from 31.7% in
2003 to 13.5% in 2007. The share of defense expenditure in GDP would decrease from 7.1% to 2.6%
over the same period. Concomitantly, social sector expenditures would almost double.

Analysis of alternatives. The Government's proposal, and the IDA appraisal of it, have taken into
consideration various alternatives in the design of the DRRP. The final design is based on best practices
and responds to the specific requirements of the situation in Burundi. It pursues a gradual approach to

15
  The following assumptions are used: (i) integration of APPMs into the national defense force, increasing its size from
45,000 in 2003 to 66,000 in 2004; (ii)the demobilization of 5,000 FAB soldiers in 2004,14,000 NDF soldiers in 2005, 14,000
NDF soldiers in 2006, and 13,000 NDF soldiers in 2007; and (iii)the reallocation of 100% of budgetary savings to social
sectors.


                                                           27
demobilization and reintegration as compared to a simple one-off discharge. The political and security
requirements stipulated in the Arusha Agreement (August 2000) and the Forces Technical Agreement
(November 2003), the stabilization of the country before and during elections, the need for a structured
defense and security sector reform process, and the difficulty of economic reintegration in the immediate
post-war period were judged to justify the related short-term defense expenditure costs.

The Program tries to support the reintegration of ex-combatants into civilian life by providing a
transitional safety net to facilitate the re-establishment of households and to avoid social tensions. The
Program's design attempts to minimize interference with market forces and to maximize the choice of
the individual and synergies with ongoing interventions. Furthermore, economic reintegration measures
would be based on the socio-economic profile of the ex-combatants, their own efforts and aspirations,
and the specific opportunity structure in their communities of return.

Cost-effectiveness analysis. The Program design seeks to minimize costs without compromising
quality. Whenever possible, existing structures would be used rather than parallel systems created. For
example, with respect to the disbursement mechanisms, transitional safety net allowance payments
would be effected directly by the ES/NCDRR through participating banks. With overall per capita costs
of US$1,325 equivalent, the costs of the DRRP are within the range established by the MDRP
framework.

Cost-benefit analysis. It is instructive to compare the total cost of the Program US$84.4 million with
the direct savings in recurrent cost to the Government's budget from the medium-term net reduction in
force of 20,000 soldiers. Compared to the counterfactual16, the reduction in force of the NDF would save
approximately US$40 million during the Program's duration and US$22 million annually thereafter.

Fiscal savings from demobilization would thus exceed Program costs in 8 years. This calculation does
not take into account long-term savings in overhead costs to the NDF, including training and
maintenance of material. I t also does not take into account the budgetary impact of a planned increased
in the size of the national police force. Finally, this simple comparison does not take into account
productivity gains and benefits to the communities and households of the ex-combatants' return to
civilian life.




16
  The counterfactual would be that the share of military expenditure in Government current expenditure remains constant at
32%.


                                                            28
      ANNEX 4.         BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

   (a) Task Team members

             Names                              Title                   Unit   Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending (The system pulls from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet, if any.)




Supervision (The system pulls from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs.)


                                   Senior Social Development
Gregory Alex                                                           AFTCS
                                   Spec
                                   Financial Management
Otieno Ayany                                                           AFTFM
                                   Specialis
Pamela Ording Beecroft             Operations Analyst                  AFTCS
Nina Chee                          Sr Environmental Spec.              MIGEP
                                   Sr Financial Management
Bella Lelouma Diallo                                                   AFTFM
                                   Specia
                                   Senior Social Development
Madjior Solness Dingamadji                                             AFTCS
                                   Spec
Sameena Dost                       Sr Counsel                          LEGAF
                                   Senior Social Development
Marcelo Jorge Fabre                                                    AFTCS
                                   Spec
                                   Senior Social Development
Harald Hugo Hinkel                                                     AFTCS
                                   Spec
Ludovic Joseph Kabran              Senior Operations Officer           CSRRM
Toni Ntaganda Kayonga              Operations Officer                  AFTCS
                                   Senior Social Development
Cornelis Arend Kingma                                                  AFTCS
                                   Spec
Elisabeth Maier                    Consultant                          COCPO
Estella Malayika                   Program Assistant                   MDO
Natacha Meden                      Communications Officer          AFTS3-HIS
Sarah G. Michael                   Social Development Spec.            AFTCS
                                   Sr Financial Management
Joseph Kizito Mubiru                                                   LCSFM
                                   Specia




                                                         29
 Daniel J. Murphy               Senior Country Officer         AFCC1
                                Senior Procurement
 Prosper Nindorera                                             AFTPC
                                Specialist
 Leoncie Niyonahabonye          Office Manager                 AFTEN
 Marie-Claire Nzeyimana         Communications Associate       AFREX
                                Senior Social Development
 Pia Peeters                                                   AFTCS
                                Spec
 Fanny Robert                   Operations Analyst             AFTCS
 Mamadou Sevede                 Consultant                     AFTH3
 Aurore Simbananiye             Team Assistant                 AFMBI
                                Financial Management
 Emmanuel Tchoukou                                             AFTFM
                                Specialis
 Ingo Wiederhofer               Senior Operations Officer      EASSO



   (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
   (The system pulls data available for all fields)

Fiscal year               Source of fund               No. of Staff weeks   Total cost (USD
                                                                            Thousands)
        2005              Bank budget                  42.08                104.831
        2006              Bank budget                  29.46                75.184
                          Bank budget                  46.58                130.851
        2007
                          Trust fund                   28.09                204.016
                          Bank budget                  35.68                111.042
        2008
                          Trust fund                   94.36                620.889
                          Bank budget                  14.44                60.002
        2009
                          Trust fund                   80.58                334.974




                                                      30
                         ANNEX 5.       BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS (IF ANY)


Selected results from the beneficiary assessment of child soldiers (2006) and the impact evaluation of socio-
economic reintegration (2008):

       Beneficiary Assessment of the Child Soldier (2006)

B.3 What do you think of your housing in comparison to others in the village?
      Much worse      19.3%
      Worse           30.5%
      Same            38.6%
      Better          7.4%
      Much better     .7%

B.7 Do you think your household has more or less animals than others in the community?
       Much less       9.5%
       Less            25.6%
       Same            10.2%
       More            3.9%
       Much more       .4%

B.9 Do you think you have more or less land than other people in the community?
       Much less      14.0%
       Less           40.4%
       Same           21.8%
       More           5.3%
       Much more      1.4%

B.25 Do you feel are isolated within your community?
      Often             10.5%
      Sometimes         23.9%
      Never             64.2%

C.9 Do you think you have just as much access to education as your peers?
       Much less      2.1%
       Less           2.5%
       Same           28.8%
       More           3.5%
       Much more      2.5%
       N/A            58.6%

D.6 Do you eat your fill?
      Yes     22.5%                    No      77.2%

D.7 Do you think you have more/ less to eat than other people in your community?
      Much less       18.2%
      Less            46.0%
      Same            31.9%



                                                       31
       More            3.5%

D.8 Do you receive food aid?
      Yes     35.8%                    No      62.5%

E.1 What are your sources of income?
      No income                56.5%
      Work for someone         11.6%
      Own boss                 13.7%
      Association activities .4%
      Other                    17.2%

E.7 What do you think of your business compared to that of other youth in your community?
      Much worse      .7%
      Worse           2.8%
      Same            6.3%
      Better          7.7%
      Much better     1.8%
      N/A             80.4%

F.6 Where were you on this ladder a year ago? The top of the ladder is someone successful. [5-step ladder]
      Not there       3.9%
      1               40.4%
      2               29.1%
      3               17.9%
      4               6.7%
      5               1.1%

F.7 Where are you today [on the 5-step ladder]?
      Not there       6.3%
      1               31.6%
      2               29.8%
      3               20.7%
      4               8.4%
      5               1.8%

       Impact evaluation of socio-economic reintegration (2008):

CP10. Employment status of the interviewee
       Employed      87.6%            Unemployed        12.4%

EP01. What is your current employment status?
       Employed                               90.6%
       Unemployed, has worked before          5%
       Unemployed, never worked before        2.9%
       Student                                0.8%
       Housewife                              0.5%
       Other                                  0.3%

EP06. How do you see the progress in your current main business?
       Good           26.2%


                                                       32
           Average                     57.3%
           Bad                16.4%

PB01. Are you currently able to satisfy your basic needs regarding:17
       Healthcare                        2%
       Children's education              8%
       Eating at least twice a day       9%
       Adequate clothing                 14%
       Decent housing                    12%
       Access to potable water           55%

PB03. Here is a diagram representing a prosperity ladder with 6 levels. According to your own feelings, on
which rung are you now?
       1. Very Rich            0%
       2. Rich                 4.4%
       3. Comfortable          21.9%
       4. Average (can get by) 37.3%
       5. Poor                 31.3%
       6. Very poor            5.0%

PB04. How is your socio-economic situation in comparison to that of your former colleagues or members of
your reintegration community?
        1. Better than theirs       11.5%
        2. Same as theirs           38.4%
        3. Worse than theirs        42.8%
        4. Can't tell               7.2%




17
     The report calculates the number of respondents that can satisfy at least one of their basic necessities, from bottom to top.


                                                                 33
                 ANNEX 6.      SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

The Government provided the task team with its own ICR in the later stages of the ICR process. The
report is provided as a separate document as it exceeds 10 pages. However, below is the ratings section
for Bank and Borrower as translated from the Borrower's ICR:

"The World Bank assumed a leadership position in financing of Demobilization, Reinsertion and
Reintegration in Burundi.

Other donors have followed the path created by the World Bank by contributing their own resources in
addition to the World Bank's. We make a special mention of the MDRP which considerably contributed
to the PNDRR with its substantial funding.

Supervision missions from the World Bank allowed to build operational capacity amongst national
structures especially with regards to planning, financial management, monitoring and evaluation et
management in general."

The Executive Secretariat has reviewed the first draft of this ICR and has provided the team with
specific comments regarding the following issues.

Component 1: Demobilization

The Executive Secretariat wishes to stress the extensive assistance that was provided to beneficiaries
upon arrival in the demobilization centers. Specific data was gathered upon registration and were key for
the monitoring and evaluation of the project. In particular, data on disarmament (implemented before the
project) but also qualitative data on the beneficiaries' expectations were collected. Finally, specific data
on disabled ex-combatants were collected in the demobilization centers to tailor the assistance benefits.

Upon departure from the demobilization centers, each beneficiary received 20,000 FBu to facilitate
transportation to the community of resettlement.

Lessons learned

The Executive Secretariat identifies as a lesson learned the need for more preparation and information of
the beneficiaries before they enter the program. Indeed, the Secretariat regrets the lack of preparation
and available information amongst armed groups before the start of the demobilization process. Leaders
of armed groups after negotiations should prepare potential candidates for demobilization by providing
them with information on reintegration in civilian life.

2005 elections

The Executive Secretariat does not identify the 2005 elections and changes in the Implementing Agency
as a key factor affecting implementation.

M&E




                                                    34
The Executive Secretariat wishes to specify the issue of unregistered digital prints. Scanners were found
defective but not signaled in time to register all incoming beneficiaries. Digital prints taken also include
the Gardiens de la Paix and the Militants Combattants.

The lack of tracking tools identified in the ICR under "M&E utilization" is mitigated by actions from the
implementing partners. The Executive Secretariat has signaled that although they were not integrated in
the MIS, monitoring tools were used by implementing partners during the reintegration component. All
reintegration benefits received were later integrated in the MIS.

Follow-up phase

The Executive Secretariat corrected the estimated number of pending caseload from the project from
1,100 to 1,587.




                                                    35
        ANNEX 7.       COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

Most of cofinanciers were interviewed during the ICR mission in Bujumbura. Below is a summary of
their comments on the project.

The overwhelming feeling amongst all co-financiers was that the project responded to an emergency
situation and was an indispensable step towards the stabilization of the country. In this regard, most
donors and members of the international community recognize that the project paved the way for other
development projects to be developed in Burundi by guaranteeing a return to peace and stability.
Demobilization is generally considered the most successful component of the project. Although the issue
of target numbers and overestimation of beneficiaries' caseload is problematic from a World Bank point
of view, it is very much overlooked by cofinanciers and other partners. Indeed, everybody understands
the political context in which the project was implemented and the reason behind the overestimation of
caseloads. The discrepancy between the target numbers and caseloads assisted is therefore not
interpreted as a failure but rather a consequence of an overestimation at inception. With the exception of
the FNL groups, cofinanciers consider all other ex-combatants to have been demobilized by the
program.
Reintegration was identified as the most problematic component of the project: there is a lot of criticism
amongst cofinanciers regarding implementation of the reintegration component. The first criticism
concerns significant delays between the return of ex-combatants to the communities and the beginning
of the reintegration activities. There also seems to be misperceptions regarding the relevance of
reintegration activities offered. Some cofinanciers expressed concern regarding the high percentage of
individual projects involving small trade. Two schools of thought emerged amongst cofinanciers and
partners interviewed during this ICR process on the subject of reintegration. The "minimalist" approach
on reintegration was held by interlocutors who considered that an ex-combatant returning to his/her
community is reintegrated as long as he/she will resettle peacefully among neighbors and have access to
the same opportunities than the rest of the community. The "extensive" approach considers reintegration
as an opportunity to create sustainable livelihoods, where ex-combatants not being able to create a
sustainable income source for themselves is considered a failure of reintegration. Depending on
interlocutors' conception of reintegration, the assessment of the project was rated satisfactory to failed.
Cofinanciers mentioned the lack of communication as a key issue during implementation of the project.
In particular, the weakness of the sensitization component and scarcity of sensitization campaigns was
identified as a major obstacle for the program, leading to misperceptions that also affected some
partners.
Finally, all partners were unanimous in regretting the lack of tight supervision from the World Bank
team on the project and the implementing agency. Ongoing allegations of mismanagement within the
Secretariat, public demonstrations of ex-combatants as well as conflicts between implementing partners
and the Executive Secretariat have convinced the cofinanciers and other partners that the World Bank
should monitor more closely the implementation of the project. It is however unclear to most
cofincancier how responsibilities and liabilities are split between the World Bank and the Borrower.




                                                    36
ANNEX 8.        LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


1.       Republic of Burundi

     -   Burundi Minister of Finance, [February, 2004] Letter of Demobilization, Reinsertion and
         Reintegration Policy.
     -   Case d'Afrique/ACT Consultants [December, 2008] Final independent evaluation of the
         National Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program.
     -   Executive Secretariat of the National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and
         Reintegration of Ex-combatants [August, 2004] Implementation manual for the Demobilization,
         Reinsertion and Reintegration project.
     -   Executive Secretariat of the National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and
         Reintegration of Ex-combatants [September, 2007] Evaluation of income-generating activities
         implemented by international implementation partners.
     -    Executive Secretariat of the National Commission for Demobilization, Reinsertion and
         Reintegration of Ex-combatants [July, 2007] Social and environmental monitoring & evaluation
         report
     -   Institut de Statistiques et d'Etudes Economiques du Burundi (ISTEEBU) [August, 2008] Impact
         Evaluation of Socio Economic Reintegration on Beneficiaries and Host Communities.
     -   Presidential Decrees
             o Institutional structure for the DDR program [August, 2003]
             o Rank harmonization [May, 2004]
             o Status of combatant [August, 2004]
             o Status of Gardiens de la Paix and Militants Combattants [August, 2004]
             o Verification mechanism for combatant status [November, 2006]
             o Demobilization of members of the NDF [February,2008]
             o Demobilization of members of the national police [March, 2008]
             o Demobilization of members of the NDF [March, 2008]
     -   Sample verification surveys
             o BUTOYI [June, 2007]. Troisième Enquête de Vérification des Paiements des Allocations
                  de Réinsertion: Rapport d'Enquête.
             o BUTOYI [July, 2008]. Quatrième Enquête de Vérification des Paiements des Allocations
                  de Réinsertion : Rapport d'Enquête.
     -   TAOUTI-CHERIF [June, 2006]. Beneficiary Assessment of the Social and Economic Status of
         the "Child Soldier" Special Project Beneficiaries in Burundi.

2.       The World Bank

     -   Aide-memoires/Back to office reports
            o December 2008
            o February 2009
            o Mid-term review [June, 2007]
     -   BAGHDADLI, HARBORNE, RAJADEL [May, 2008], Breaking the cycle, A Strategy for
         Conflict-Sensitive Rural Growth in Burundi, World Bank working paper No. 147.



                                                  37
     -   Burundi Country Assistance Strategy [July, 2008]
     -   Burundi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper [September, 2006]
     -   Development Grant Agreement [April, 2004]
     -   Implementation Status and Results Reports
     -   Memorandum of the President for the Burundi Emergency Demobilization, Reinsertion and
         Reintegration project [February, 2004]
     -   Project Technical Annex [February, 2004]
     -   VALENSART [October, 2006], Independent evaluation of reintegration support implemented by
         local implementation partners.

3.       Other

     -   BINZEGGER [September, 2005], Institutional capacity assessment of the NCDRR Executive
         Secretariat, ACTS.
     -   The Economist Intelligence Unit [February, 2009], Burundi Country Report.
     -   UVIN [May, 2007]. Ex-combatants in Burundi: Why they joined, why they left, how they fared,
         MDRP Working Paper No. 3.




                                                  38
                              ANNEX 9.       LIST OF KEY INFORMANTS

Below is a list of key informants who have been interviewed for this ICR in Bujumbura and Washington,
DC. Many others have been contacted and provided significant input, such as then country manager
Alassane Sow, but have not been formally interviewed due to time and logistical constraints.

   -   Otieny Ayany ­ World Bank, Financial management specialist, AFTFM
   -   Alain Darthenucq - Delegate of the European Commission in Burundi
   -   Madjior Solness Dingamadji ­ World Bank, project coordinator in Burundi until May 2008
   -   Marcelo Fabre, World Bank, Task Team Leader, November 2007-present
   -   Colonel Faye ­ BINUB, head of the Security Sector Reform/Small Arms Reduction service
   -   Hunter Fraser ­ BINUB, Security Sector Reform/Small Arms Reduction service
   -   Sue Hogwood ­ DFID representative in Burundi
   -   Lieutenant Colonel Jaulin ­ French military attaché in Burundi
   -   Cornelis Kingma, World Bank, Task Team Leader, November 2006 - November 2007
   -   Gilles Landsberg ­ Belgian embassy, First Secretary
   -   Sarah Michael ­ World Bank, Task team member, 2006-2007
   -   Charles Muvira ­ Executive Secretariat, Coordinator for reintegration
   -   Jeroboam Nzikobanyaka ­ Executive Secretariat, Project coordinator
   -   Israel de la Piedra ­ IMF, Burundi country representative
   -   Mercy Tembon ­ World Bank, Burundi country manager
   -   Ingo Wiederhofer ­ World Bank, Task Team Leader, 2004-2006




                                                 39
[MAP]




 40
