FILE COPY
OCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1526-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
COTTON AREAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 30, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit =   CFA Franc (CFAF) i
The borrowerts fiscal year is January 1 to December 31
Present Rates
US$ i           =  CFAF  240
CFAF 1          =        .00417
CFAF 1,000      =        4.17
CFAF 1 million  =        4170.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)   =   2.47 acres
1 kilogram           2.2 lbs
1 metric ton     =   2,204.6 lbs
lj' The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in a ratio of
.1 French Franc to 50 CFAF Francs. The French Franc is
currently floating.



TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED WAN
TO TEK REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY OOAST
FOR A COTTON ARSAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast, for the equivalent of US$ 31 million to
help finance a rural development project in the country's north which would
primarily consist of the expansion of the area under cotton cultivation from about
60,000 ha to about 80,000 ha, and the area of food crops grown in. rotation with
cotton from about 10,000 ha to 70,000 ha. The Caisse Centralede Coopération
Economique would co-finance the project in the amount of US$ 3.6 million.  The
ILan_would have a tern of 20 years including 6 years of grace with interest at
ejiht percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMI
2.       The most recent economic report on the Ivory Coast, Report No. 296-IVC
"Current Economic Situation and Prospects of the Ivory Coast", April 11, 1974
which is based on an economic mission in April of 1973, confirmed the countryls
favorable growth prospects and its creditworthiness. It concluded also that the
Government's development efforts required and deserved continued external support.
While recent developments in export and import prices led to substantial quanti-
tative changes in.the balance of paymentst estimates from those made in the report,
our revised calculations still support these conclusions. Annex I containe basic
country data.
3.       Throughout the 1960's, the Ivory Coastes economie growth was rapid. GDP
grew at an annual rate of 7.5 percent in real terme and in 1972 per capita income
reached US$ 340. Although this growth rate could not be fully sustained in the
early 1970's because of deteriorating terms of trade and adverse weather condi-
tions, growth in 1971-73 still averaged 6.5 percent a year, in real terms. Fac-
tors contributing to rapid growth were tVe Governmentts liberal and pragmatic
economic policies which have made the country attractive to foreign investors,
the availability of ample land and timber resources, the existence of a large pool
of labor including immigrants from sahelian countries and, during the late
sixties, rising commodity export prices. Recognizing the country's vulnerability
in its dependence on three export commodities (cocoa, coffee and wood constitute
dO percent of total exporta while exports are some 32 percent of GDP), the
Government began after 1965 to diversify agriculture by introducing or expanding
oil palm, coconut, pineapple, rice, rubber, cotton and sugar cultivation and
by placing more emphasis on other economic sectors such as industry, mining and
tourism. Although the full benefits of these diversification efforts are stili
some years off, the prospects are that the Ivory Coast will gradually become le9s
dependent on its traditional exports.



-2-
4.       The Governnent's development objectives include, in addition to
broadening the production base, the extension ofeconomic infrastructure in
such fields as transport and power, the improvemnnt of urban facilities,
regional diversification, the development of secondary industrial centers,the deve-
lopment of education and the Ivorianization of the economy.  These objectives
correspond well to the needs and the possibilities of the country. Fast and
ongoing development has laid a solid foundation for further growth. Moreover,
Government and private investment activities indicate that the country's growth
possibilities are being recognized and exploited.
5.       The Goverrment's awareness of social problens is reflected in the
current (1971-1975) Plan's emphasis on the income effects of development,
regional balance and education. Thus, to reduce inequalities, recent salary
raises have been graded down from 26 percent for the lowest to 5 percent for
the higher paid workers. A number of projects, for instance, cocoa, rice, oil
palm, .rubber, sugar and cotton are designed to narrow the gap between urban and
rural incomes and to reduce regional income disparities. In the same vein, over
the past five years, the Government has increased producer prices for cocoa by
120 percent, for coffee by 60 percent and for cotton by 35 percent.
6.       However, the next Plan (1976-80) will need to foeus more sharply still
on problens of urbanization, prospects of employment in both rural and urban
areas and income distribution. To assist the Government in these directions, a
special Bank employment mission, which included ILO staff, visited the Ivory Coast.
The missionts report "Ivory Coast: Special Report on Euployment" (Report No. 279-
IVC) was issued in July, 1974, after detailed discussions with the Government.
The mission identified the employment problem as one of growing imbalances:
while projected demand for labor appears to be matched by manpower supply (in-
cluding immigration) shortages in rural areas and a surplus in urban labor
markets will develop in the absence of corrective action. The mission also
singled out a number of issues for further stucdr, including the costs and benefits
of creating a better economic and socialinfrastructurein secondary centers
combined with a certain degree of industrialization and suggested changes in
educational and training systems.
7.       Our forecasts show that after the recent changes in the commodity
price structure,successful implementation of the Governmentts development program
will more than in the past depend on the availability of foreign funds. Current
Bank commodity price forecasts point to a gradual deterioration of the Ivory
Coastts terms of trade for the remainder of the 1970's. Until recently, most
Ivorian export products have been in strong demand. However, revised growth
forecasts for Western Europe, the Ivory Coastts main export market, suggest that
the decline in economic activity may be deeper and longer lasting than anticipated
earlier. In 1974, alreacy, timber exports have dropped markedly as a direct
consequence of a slump in the European construction industry. Yet, the import
bill will continue to rise rapidly because of high inflation rates in supplier
countries, especially for food, fertilizers and oil. The net oil import bill is
expected to go up from US$ 15 million in 1972 to US$ 70 million in 1974 and
US$ 80 million rin 1975 or from 3 percent of 1972 commodity imports to



3-
7 percent in 1975. The Government has taken vigorous action to limit the impact
of higher imports on the countryvs balance of payments. For instance,retail
prices of petroleum products, electricity, rice, sugar and other consumer pro-
ducts have been increased sharply, while the producer price for rice has been
doubled to encourage local production. In early 1975, the countryes first
sugar mill will start operating. Its production will replace 60,000 tons of
sugar imports and cover some 80 percent of present sugar consumption. Plans
for an extension are in an advanced stage of preparation. These and similar
efforts in other lines of production will permit a reduction in theishare of food
imports from its present level of about 20 percent of total commodity imports.
8.       Dbopito all this, the trade aurplus is expected to dœind1e and it will
no longer compensate for the deficit in non-factor services, as it did in the
past. Consequently, and in contrast to the 1965-1970 period when the Ivory Coast
enjoyed a resource surplus of US$ 35 million per year on average, a resource
gap of US$ 80-100 million per year in the second half of the 1970's appears in-
evitable. This is equivalent to about 2.5 percent of projected GQD or about 5,5
percent of the projected exports of goods and non-factor services in 1975. As
in the past, with interest payments, transfers of profits and workers? remittances
abroad, the factor services account will continue to be in deficit as well.
Therefore, to maintain balance of payments equilibrium,there vill have to be a
substantial cowpensatory inflow of capital from abroad. Net reserves at mid-
1974 9tood at about US$ 80 million, which is equivalent to 5 weeks of imports.
9,       Based on past experience and assuming an adequate inflow of capital,
Ivory Coastus econony may be expected to adjust to changing world economic con-
ditions. Early in 197h, the Government established a task force to advise on
short term adjustments; the need for structural changes is being given particular
attention in the preparation of the new Five-Year Plan. Good growth prospects
in several sectors should facilitate the adoption of corrective measures. For
example, Ivory Coast has substantial potential to increase electricity generation
from hydro-sources. Sites in addition ta the three now in operation were already
being studied before the "oil crisis" and the program for hydro-electric develop-
ment will be speeded up. According to the Governmentgs program, an estimated
85 percent of Ivorian demand for electricity dould be met from hydro-electric
plants by the early eighties, against 40 percent at present. The possibility of
increased domestic energy production at reasonable co0t may accelerate the
implementation of the Government0s policy to process raw materials locally rather
than exporting them in unprocessed form as is generally ætill the case.
10.      Structural changes will take time and the continuation of a sizeable
investment effort. In recent years gross investment averaged about 21 percent
of GDP, and the proportion of the public sector in total investments increased
from an average of 50 percent in 1965-70 to 60 percent in 1970-73. Public in-
vestments for 1975 are estimated at about US1$ 470 million. This amount would
double in current prices between 1975 and 1980, assuning that the investment
rate ia maintained and that QDP vill grow by 6 percent per year in real terms.



11.      Domestic public savings in the future are likely to cover a smaller
part of capital outlays than they did in the past, even assuming continued good
fiscal performance.  With budget revenues already exceeding 20 percent of GDP,
future Governznent resources cannot reasonably be expected to increase much faster
than the economy as a whole. The Government has been (luite successful in
generating budgetary savings but with rapidly increasing social expenditures,
for instance for housing and education, these savings will be under heavy pressure.
To some extent savings from public enterprises will provide some relief   to the
budgetary constraint. Also, higher world prices for agricultural exports will
boost revenues of the Stabilisation Fund. Howeier, as indicated before, the
Government's producer price policy is to pass more of these benefits to farmers,
and,as a result,this source of public savings is unlikely to expand.  Furthermore,
debt service charges will increase rapidly. As a consequence, public savings
after debt service, which in the past financed 40-50 percent of public investments,
will on average represent no more than 25-30 percent of public investments in
the next five years. Thus, at least 70 percent of public investments will have
to be financed from other sources.
12.      The chances that additional domestic private funds could be raised
to finance public investments remain low for two main reasons. First, traditionally
part of the profits made by foreign investors has been transferred abroad and
this will continue in the future. Second, non-Ivorian labor - it is estimated
that between 15 and 20 percent of the Ivory Coant population is non-Ivorian -
traisferred about US$ 100 million to their home countries as workers' remittances
in 1973. Direct controls to limit private transfers are not permitted within the
Franc zone of which the Ivory Coast is the most important member in Africa; such
controls would probably be counter-productive by deterring foreign private
capital, and they would represent a serious blow to the Ivory Coast's much poorer
neighbors, especially Upper Volta which received 50 percent of immigrant workersI
remittances.  But those transfers, of course, mean a substantial drain of domestic
savings for the Ivory Coast. To encourage keeping funds in the country the
Government has proposed to the Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union
that the base interest rate be raised from 5.5 to 7.5 percent. However.ot,her memhbpF
of the Union have opposed this move as they fear an adverse effect on their
investments.  Steps by the Government to raise interest rates. establish a
local stock market and place more emphasis Qn ivorianization of the economs are
not likely to alter these flows substantially in the medium term.   Government
issued bonds with a tax free return of 7-9 percent have had only limited success
s0 far.
13.      Absorptive capacity in terms of projects to be financed in the puDlic
sector is substantial. The inflow of foreizn,capital into the public sector
in 1973 was US$ 23$ million; in 1975 it may need to be as high as US$ 330 million.
Assuming that 50-60 percent of future foreign capital requirements will continue
to be provided by international organizations and foreign governments and the
rest by more expensive sources like suppliers credit and private banks, the debt
service ratio would rise from its- rather low level of 6.6 percent in 1973 to arnund



-5 -
15 percent in the early 1980s.  We consider this level to be manageable.  If
the capital required cannot be obtained on appropriate terms, the investment
program would have to be cut back and overall growth would drop below 6 percenit,
The projected average contribution of net public savings to the financing of
public investments will in many cases be les9 thani the local cost component ef
projects.  Therefore, foreign donors should be willing to finance not only the
foreign cost component of projects but also some local caste in those projects
where the foreign exchange component ie low.
14.      A basic ecônowic mission scheduled for 1975 will evaluate the couwtry's
long-term prospects'in the context of the draft 1976-1980 development plan, and
will undertake a thorough reexamination of our projections, the underlying
assumptions and especially the consequences for Ivory Coast's external borroawing
and debt service. Xowever, there is little reason to believe that there will
be much if any reduction in the higher level of capital requirements now fore-
seen. The terms of borrowing therefore become a more important consideration.
I1 for instance, the supplementary needs of future capital were to be met on
terms offered in the Eurodollar market - to which the Ivory Coast has access -
the debt service could substantially surpass the level of 15 percent projected
for the 1980Os. To keep the debt service within mangeable Limits and to enable
the Government to implement its development policy, it is desirable that foreign
capital be made available on as concessionaiy terms as possible, including long
repayment and grace periods.  However, in view of the still low debt,service
ratio, the good future growth potential of the econony and the expected increase
in export earning8, the Ivory Coast remaine creditworthy for substantial
additional borrowing from the Bank.
PART Il - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
15.      Since 1968, the Bank's lending to the Ivory Coast has expanded rapidly,
and now includes fourteen loans totalling US$ 142.4 million and an IDA credit of
US$ 7.5 million. Four of these fifteen operations have been for roads; six were
to the member companies of the SODEPALM Group for the development of oil palm and
coconut plantations and the construction of two oil mills; the remaining five
loans were for education, rubber, telecommnnications and two cocoa projects of
which the last one was approved by the Executive Directors on December 10, 1974.
The IFC also has a small (US$ 20h,000) participation in the Banque Ivoirienne
de Developpement Industriel.  Annex Il contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects with particular
reference to those wîhich are encountering problems in execution and giving rise
to delays in disbursements.
16.      The agricultural sector remains the principal foreign exchange earner
and domestic employdr.  It continues to pro4ide close to 90 percent of exports,
to employ a majority of the population, to help stabilize.an increasingly mobile
population, and to bring development to remote areas of the country. Our prin-
cipal efforts are, iherefore, in this sector.  An agricultural development
project is under preparàtion for FY 76. We.are also participating with the Caisse
Centrale de Coopération Economique (CCCE) in preparing a rice project in the
forest zone of the Ivory Coast. The Government has also requested our assistance
in financing additional oil palm, coconut and rubber development in the Ivory
Coastts South-We8t.



-6-
17.      In order to strengthen the country's major transport axes and link
the agricultural areas to the   nation s urban centers and ports, we have placed
considerable emphasis on transportation and have become the principal lender
for road construction and maintenance. The Bank was closely associated, as
executing agency, with the 1968 UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast.
The Government requested and the Bank agreed to use funds remaining under the
Second Highway Project as a resuit of the deletion of the engineering studies
of the Katiola-Ferkessedouppou rond, to finance an updating of the UNDP Trans-
port Survey and a general assessment of colntry-wide fender road re(luirements.
We expect that investments in priority projects to be identified under this new
survey and included in the 1976-1980 National Development Plan now under pre-
paration will continue to be submitted to the Bank for financing in the next few
years. A Fifth Highway Project was appraised last summer and includes a second
phase of the pavement strengthening program (about 200 km), construction of the
Anyama-Agboville road and a section of the Abidjan-Adzope road. The Government
is also interested in obtaining our assistance in financing the realignment of
a section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line.  Other sections of the rail line
are being financed by FED and EIB.
18.      Urban infrastructure. small scale industries and education are important
sectors in which we are involved, although our financial participation remains
relatively modest. A sewerage and drainage project in the greater Abidjan area
is scheduled for Board presentation at about the same time as the proposed project.
The project would help finance the first phase of a ten-year Government program
to improve the sanitation sector of Abidjan. A study of the development of a lnew
quarter of Abidjan is being .financed with Bank funds.  We have appraised a small
enterprise project which wil. carry forward the special effort inaugurated in
Wastern Africa through a 197'L Biank study on the development of African private
enterprise. With regard to education we are closely associated with the Govern-
ment's efforts to modernize its educational system principally at the secondary
and vocational levels. With the assistance of UNESCO, we have ;ecently appraised
a.small second project which will lay the ground for a larger third education
project. Two small projects in tourism and industrial development were appraised
last fall. Substantial investments are also foreseen in later years for
industry and power areas,in which we have not previously been involved, but in
which the Government foresees the need for the Bank GroupDs participation.
19.      Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1973, 30
percent was provided by Governments, 20 percent by international organizations
(of which 60 percent by the Bank Group), 20 percent came from private banks and
through bond issues while 30( percent came in the form of suppliers' credits, The
capital not supplied by international organizations came mainly from four countries,
France ( 35 percent), USA (27 percent), Italy (15 percent) and Germany (8 percent).
France and the European Economic Community remain the principal source of develop-
ment assistance in grant form. Altogether, grants accounted for 15 percent of
the total flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.



-.7
20.      Bank Group lending to the Ivory Coast, which has averaged about
US$ 20 million per year in the 7 years since we began operations in the
Ivory Coast, is expected to increase substantially over the next several
years. The Bank Groupes share of the Ivory Coastgs external debt is now
approximately 11 percent (including undisbursed) and may increase in the next
5 years period to about 18 percent. The Bank Group's share of debt service
is at present 3.4 percent and is expected to go up to about 7 percent by 1980.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.      Agriculture and forestry account for about 90 percent of the Ivory
Coastgs exports and 27 percent of its GDP. They are the mainspring of the
country's growth and should remain so for many years to come.   In 1970-73,
the Ivory Coastgs exports on average were valued at CFAF 146.8 billion (US$
571 million) and three commodities-coffee (29 percent), timber (28 percent)
and cocoa (21 percent) - accounted for about 80 percent of the value of total
exports. Three-quarters of the population depend directly or indirectly on
activity in this sector. Average per capita income earned in agriculture
including the value of subsistence production is roughly calculated at
CFAF 28,000 (US$ 100) for 1970. Regional disparities are, however, very
large with the poorest areas being in the North of the country.
22,      Abundant land, good labor supply (including immigrant workers mostly
from Upper Volta and Mali) and generally favorable world markets for its
principal products have assured rapid growth of this sector_ Through diversifi-
cation, the Government has sought to reduce the country's dependence on coffee
and cocoa; efforts to increase the production of oil palm, bananas, pineapples,
coconuts, rice, cotton and rubber and to increase the exploitation of its forest
resources have been highly successful.
The Cotton Sub-sector
23.      Cotton in the Ivory Coast is grown in the Savannah zone of the North
and Center regions and in the fringe forest zone towards the South, all of which
are well suited for this crop and food crop production. The cotton zone comprises
the country's total.  In 1972  68000 farm families Dlanted cotton -o-n G57000 ha.
24.      Cotton development programs in the Ivory Coast date from 19614 when an
agreement was signed between the Government and the Compagnie ÎFÈncaisà pour le
D-veloppement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), a French company, whereby            e
or organizing farmers, providing extension services, supplying
input~sa     purchasïng and ginning the crop. French bilateral agencies and FED
assisted in financing,these programs. Production grew rapidly from less than
19000 tons in 1962/63 to 5,500 tons in 1964/65 ande       4ons in 1968/69. After
two years of decline, due to unfavourable weather, production picked up again
in 1971-72 and %çceeded 8 QQ     e_a-.19Z--Q       DT, working closely with
the Cotton Researcd-hIâeitute (IRCT), has sucçessfully encouraged the adoption
on_the-paartdcq&aaLers of sound cropping techniques which have led to high yields
Çibput_~ ,,,,-,)and the production of good quality cotton. It is conservatively
es-titéed that, under existing conditions, Ivorian production of cotton could
eventually increase to about 120,000 tons per annum.



- 8 .-
25.      On April 1, 197h, the Government and CFDT signed a new agreement pro-
viding for the creation of the^Conpagnie IvoirieMq_pp
s (CIDT) - a joint venture 55 percent of which is owned by the Gcvernment
and 45 p9e`rct by CFDT - to carry out the cotton and food crop development
program initiated by CFDT. Plans call for the progressive ivorianization of
CIDTts management.
26.      Four ginneries of roughly equal capacity are in operation.     Two are
located in the Northern region, at Boundiali (Government owned) and Korhogo
(private owned), and two in the Center/South at Mankono (Gavernment owned) and
Bouaké (CFDT owned). Their total ginning capacity is 76,600 tons of seed cotton
per year, yielding,through ginning,an average of 20,000 - 23,000 tons of lint
and 28,000 - 33,000 tons of marketable cotton seed.
27.        e domestic textile indu.st   currentl absorbs about 6     o tnsor
lint annu                         e                a li  o  the cotton seedj, are
e      d.éX3PEeÉ  A rapid expansion of the textile industry is planned, with an ex-
t             consuiption of over 35,000 tons by 1981.   An oil seed crushing plant
is planned for 1975, with an initial capacity of 10,000 tons/year rising to
40,000 tons/year by 1979.
Institutional Framework
W&eH"-4 2tX        O-verall development planning is in the hands of the Planning Ministry
while detailed agricultural development programs are the responsibility of the
Ministries of Agriculture and of Livestock. Execution of these programs is
generally exitrusted to autonomous aRencies set up by the Government to.proMote
ncipai agen i6â âre StUÊPtLM (oil pali-ZTiicor-onut),
SATMACI (cocoa and coffee), SOCATCI (rubber), SODEFEL (fruit and vegetables),
SODERIZ (rice) and CIDT (cotton).
29.          cultural research     undertaken by several French organizations
> q>i' under a tciJ7g              ciee Sagreement with France.  Programs and budgets are
reviewed and approved by the Ivorian Ministry of Scientific Research, and costs
are shared equally by the two countries. Cotton research is carried out by the
Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques (IRCT); research on
food crops by the Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cu-Ltures
Vivrières (IRAT); and animal husbandry research by the Centre de Recherches
Zootechniques (CRZ) of the Institut d'Elevage et de MWdecine Vétérinaire des
Pays Tropicaux (IENVT).
30.      The Plant Protection Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture main-
tains, in collaboration with CIDT, observation points throughout the cotton growing
area to monitor pest infestations and issue spraying directives. The Veterinary
Service of the Livestock Ministry provides vaccinations and sanitary care for
cattle, including draft oxen.
J   31.      Tlg-Banqu"adpple pour le D'veloppement Agricole (BNDA), the main
source of ag  cultural creditn opeF7throügh the auto
agnis mntio        -à àbove, which assume responsibility for credifditFî Xon
and recoverv.   The BNDAhas a line ai redi9count for short and he-i-i!4erm-, -
aricuLtura1  credit from the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de 13Ouest
(BCEAO).



-9-
32.      The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (CSSPPA), the Governnent price stabilization fund, contrl      t _  he
marketing of the countryts major agricultural export commodities inclucing
c arantee+Zfigwprodue-rand-expor't-r-es. CIDT purhs e5..
c fEHieat--t-he-guarantepd-ei7ice, transports and gins it.               Price
schedules for lint and cotton seed are established by CSSPPA in consultation
with CIDT.     e   rmer bears the risk for any difference be
prices an us            r                                                g saJ_a
for lint exports; cotton seed is exported directly by CSSPPA. Increases in
world fertilizer prices since 1972 have also been absorbed by CSSPPA instead
oi being passed on to cotton farmers.
The Autonomous Service of Village Water Supply (Service Autonome de
l'Hydraulique Humaine - SAH) is a new public agency created in 1973 under the
supervision of the Planning Ministry, with responsibility for planning and
inplementing a country-wide program to provide wells for all villages of over
100 inhabitants by 1980.
34.       The Société pour le Developpement de la Riziculture (SODERIZ), an
autonomous Governnent Corporation in charge of rice development,guarantees the
purchase, at prices established by Goverrment, of all paddy offered by farmers.
Governznent Strategy
35.      Until recently, efforts to improve agricultural productivity in the
Ivory Coast havefoeused on various individual export crops, e.g., cocoa, coffee,
coconut, rubber, cotton and oil palm. Promotion of these crops by specialized
autonomous public agencies has met with success. Food crop production on the
other hand has not benefited from this intensive promotional el`fort and, con-
sequently, has begun to lag.   The Government has turned its attention to this
situation and to theinterrelatedproblems of rural poverty and regional income
disparities.
36.      The Governmeritts strategy with regard to agriculture calls for (a) in-
creases in both the output and productivity of Sexrport- coM nm ties so as to in-
crease the countryts foreign exchange earnings and maintain its competitive
position in export markets; (b) continued diversification principally by pro-
moting oil palm, coconut, rubber anco      nd up food crops production
particularly of those such as rice and sugar for which demana8pts-nen
risen rapidly; and (d) the development of regional rur       veopment nrams
involving the production of cash and food crops and the setti-ng Ln place of related
physical and social infrastructure.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      The proposed project was prepared by consultants employed by the
Goverrnment with partial Bank financing (Loan 686-IVC).  Preparation was closely
followed by RMWA. The project would be cofinanced by the CCCE. The project
would seek to add new elements and objectives to the cotton develcpment prograxm
(the Program) thatt                       implementng       since 196b with the
support of OCCE, FAC, and FED. Thus far the Program's main thrust has been to
encourage widespread adoption oa cotton cultivation and utilization of approp-
riate production techniques. The Government believes that since excellent
progress has been achieved towards obtainirig the initial objectives of the
?rogr,m, the next stage of agricultural and rural development efforts for the
cotton areas should promote the                      aprv~eqe of cotton
and other main crops in the farm system.
38.      The proposed project is based on the experience of a pilot operation
which the Governrent i.nitiated in 1972, with FED financing, to modernize farm
systems in parts of the savannah region.     ._pcheme emphasizes the simultaneous
2pq,iKol-4Qproved techniques in the production o    cotton and Lood crops grown
~ a d_eselgçtiv                 doption. .ox-drawn cultivation.    Initial results
of thisS Plot operation have been encouraging in-terms ofLfarmersî response and
output increases. The proposed project would broadly apply the approach tested
in this pilot operation throughout the entire cotton growing area. The project was
submitted to the Bank in December 1973 and appraised by a joint Bank/CCCE mission
iii April/May 1974. The mission report entitled "Appraisal of Cotton Areas Rural
Development Project" (No. 6ùl6-IVC, dated December 30, 197) is being distributed
separately.  Annex three contains a loan and project summary. Negotiations for
the Loan took place from December 11 to 20, 197L, and the Ivorian delegation
was headed by Mr. Naka (Director, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement) and included
Messrs. Detoh(Director of the CIDT), Siransy (Director General of Public Works),
Brun (Ministry of Finance), Kouadio (Ministry of Public Works) and Sako (Ivorian
&nbassy, Washington).
Project Description
39.      The project would consist of supplying farmers in the Northern part of
the country with technical advice and inputs to improve their farms, building
additional cotton processing capacity, and improving transportation and water
supply infrastructure. The specific components would be as follows:
(a)  g»eSY gareas_.of cotton cultivation from 57,000 ha to 80,000 ha,
and the area of food crops grown in rotation with cotton from about
9,000 ha to 71,000 ha;
(b)     f     _J8 .0-.ha of land for the cultivation of cotton with ox-
drawn implements;
(c)  establishing a L     e_sçed,.farxamand two. new qo.x training _çcenters;
(d)  providing _QdiL to Lairmers for the purchase of farm inputs and
equipment;
(e)  txâjp4g about 50 local artisans as bl.acksmiths to service farm
equipment;



(f) building two gottLni ginaprifefand providing additional cotton
transort and s4&r5ezgfacilities;
(g)  improving about 920 km of d`sâg&fi ,.    and constructing about
800 small bridges and drainage structures on existing roads;
constructing 5702.â"    for village water supply; and
(h) strengthening the executing agency,CIDT,by providing additional
management and field staff; training extension agents;establishing
a field trials and monitoring unit; and constructing and supplying
building equipment,
The project would be carried out over six years, 1974/75 - 1979/80.
40.      Other food crops to be grown in rotation with cotton would be mainly
maize, rice and groundnits.   At full development, it is estimated that incre-
mental project production will reach about 37nOnO   tIl"Ad cot tn, 18,000
tons of maize  13,000 tons   f padcdr rice and 5,000 tons of uns e1ll   gwQ~ntts.
Detailed Features
41.      Participating farmers would be supplied with extension services and
inputs to adopt improved cotton production techniques including, selectively,
ox drawn cultiva                                                 to improve the
productivity of    e main food cr9   - maize   rice  and groundnuts    grown in
rotation with co toe advan age                                       t food crops
planted after cotton would benefit from the residual effects of fertilizer
applied to cotton.
Land clearing
42.      The adoption of ox-drawn cultivation would require clearing 38,000 ha
of land under the project. Mbst of the clearing would be done by teams
assisted by farmers, with winches and hand labor; in some densely forested areas
about 2 ha per farm on average would be cleared by teams with motorized equipment.
Mechanical land clearing would not exceed 2,500 ha, or about 6 percent of the
total area to be cleared under the project.
Distribution of inputs and credit to farmers
13.       Inputs would be distributed to farmers by CIDT.   Farmers would con-
tinue to receive cotton                             rayers free of charge.   These
cruci.al a hi rhyte1ds~. ar.~,us.~d  cottonpro    c         er   pu s   or on- arm
development, such as fertilizer for cot Era1i rice,F improved maize and rice seed,
ox cultivation equipment, and, in the Center region, trained oxen, would be supplied
to farmers on cred1IDI?'&               d byXCIDT.   Up. to 7 year mediu -  rmr credit
would be extende         a    quipment       oP'other                     wou
fcredit would b          cent Der year.



- 12 -
This rate is appropriate and consistent with prevailing interesU rates in the
agricultural sector which were recent t1   ebjouesd,  q uipment for rng
*re±g- seeU                 l )'would be purchased by CIDT, with funds provided
under the project, and rerted to farmers. Credit repayments would be deducted
from payments to farmers for cotton at the time of purchase, an arrangement
that keeps the risk of default to a minimum.
Maize Seed Farm and Ox Training Centers
44.      Since there are no facilities in the Ivory Coast to multiply, in
sufficient volume, the improved maize seed required by the project, financing
would be provided for the establishment and operation of a 100 ha maize seed
farm. Establishment expenditures would include a three man-months preparation
study.  In addition to maize, the proposed seed farm might also be used for the
production of improved groundnuts seeds which are not yet available in the Ivory
Coast. Cattle are scarce in the Central project region, where most farmers do
not keep nor are used to handling animals. Consequently, the project would pro-
vide for the establishment and operation of two ox training centers.
Blacksmith Training
45.      Because the expansion of ox cultivation would re9uit in increasing
demand for equipment-repair services, which are at present virtually nonexistant,
the project would provide financing for the training of 50 village artisans in
blacksmithing. Training would be given by three graduates of the Bouaké Technlical
College. These graduates would be recruited under the project and given practical
pedagogical training during a three months stay at CFDTI's blacksmith training
center in Mali. After satisfactory completion of the training program, these
village artisans would receive, onrCIDT's recommendation, medium-term credit from
BNDA for the acquisition of complete blacksmithts kits.    (Section 3.04(b) of Loan
Agreement.)
Ginneries and Related Investments
46.      To handle and process the expected incremental production of cotton,
the project would provide for: (a) two new ginneries with initial capacities
of 12,500 tons per year each, to be located at Dimbokro and M'bengue; (b-)
6,000 m2 of field storage for seed cotton and 2,000 m2 of covered storage for
bales;   (c) housing and-office space for CIDT staff;   (d) 50 light trucks and
55 heavy trucks for the transport of cotton; and (e) one garage/workshop for
vehicle maintenance. CIDT, with CFDT§s assistance, is qualified to prepare
plans and specifications and to supervise cornstruction.
Feeder Roads
47.      Since transport is now difficult over large parts of the 4, 500 km
existing road network in the project area, the project would provide for re-
habilitation of about 920 km on 40 rural roads and construction of about 800
small bridges and drainage structures.    The iMinistry of Public Works would be
responsible for the execution of this component of the project. Because of the
scattered nature of the works and their simplicity, rtation orf
roads would be c anrIi é3i rt..hY^°ca°u0Ee*&m§oEy                  iS3ijlG_
c .hiired -uRdeæ te*r~o                                tje¢lwa_ual4 f-w r 3Gij; p  vnr
exp;onc; uonuei-+wI Lz 2~able«<tQ-the Boeiw-*6evtion 3.05 of the Loan Agreement).
One would supervise the work and operation of the regravelling brigade, and the
other would oversee construction of structures by force account or by indenendent-
local contractors.



- 13 -
Village Water Supplies
48.      The project would finance the construction of about 570 wells,
including 80 tubewells, in the project area. Each well would serve 100
families on average, contributing significantly to improve health conditions
and water supply for draft animals and cotton spraying treatments. Construction
of the wells would be by contractors under the supervision of SAHo   (Section
3.06 of Loan Agreement). To carry out necessary hydrological and geological
surveys, the project would provide for about 55 man-months of consultants ser-
vices. Maintenance of the wells would be subcontracted to an experienced
agency.  (Section 3.08 of Loan Agreemnnt).                      ;
Marketing                                                  3              (;I<
49.      Cotton fibre and cotton seed would continue to be marketed by CIDT
under agreements with the Stabilization Fund (CSSPPA). Producer prices, set
by the Government at present average about CFAF 70/kg, a satisfactory level.
Government guarantees the producer price
r rice, currently at an attractive level of CFAF 65/kg for paddy. Other food
crop prices are free) and the strong demand for such crops is met by an adequate
network of private merchants.
Project execution
50.      The proposed project would be carried out primarily by CIDT.   CIM'
would receive technical support from CFDT. CIDT is coriceived as a regional rural
development agency which, in addition to taking over responsibiliti,es for cottori
development in the Ivory Coast, would be responsible for agricultural development
and the improvement of living conditions in the cotton areas. To assure that
CIDT can handle an increased and broadened workload, the project would provide
for: (a) the appointment of a Technical Director, a Financial Director and a
Seniior Veterinarian, to complete the management structure; and (b) the appointment
of two Regional Dfrectors, two section chiefs, five zone chiefs and 118 extension
agents to maintain the present coverage of the extension services which is
satisfactory. The Technical Director, the Financial Director and Seniot Vete-
rinarian would be of qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank
(Section 2.05 of Project Agreement). Some other expatriates previously employed
by CFDT would be expected to continuewith CIDT. & reasonable plan of progressive
vorian    ohatiçr  has been submnitt   the Bark, Under the prôject, ail zone
tchiefs and about 200 extension agef   wiiYd receive formal training in subjects
Mrelevant to their functions carried out under contract by the African Institute
for Economic and Social Development (INADES) which is.qualified to organize such
training in cooperation with CIUT. (Section 2.06 of Project Agreement). The
project would also provide for the staffing and equipping of a unit at CIDT to
carry out, in coordination with agricultural research agencies, a program of
adaptive field trials and to monitor and evaluate the progress of the project.
Only one other agricultural development agency, SODERIZ, would be concerned with.
the project. SODERIZ would concentrate its extension activities vithin the
project area to farmers growing bottom land and irrigated rice, and would pro-
vide CIDT with technical and marketing support, and supply rice seeds, for upland
rice development (Section 2.07 of Project Agreement).



- 14 -
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
51.      The estimated total cost of the project is US1$ 52.5 million incmlutîin
taxes and duties of US$ 5.8 million.  The foreign exchange component would be
about Us1$ ?4.6 million or h7 percent W' total costs.
?2.      The proposed Bank loan would be fo_ J TS$ Il million.  [t wouldl be made
to the Government and wa31d-flfnnce about 66 per(eift cfpe4ectsosts net i'
taxes and duties and Ubuld c                   ge costs of 113$ 20.0 millioni ai
local currency expoenditures of US$ 11 million, eqauivâlehtrtho3abent-f 
local expenditures.  The Loan would be for twenty years with a grace period of
six years, at an interest rate of 8 percent. It is proposed that about U5$ 6091,000
of the Loan be used to finance retroactively eligible project expenditures (e.g.
seed farm establishment, cotton spraying, land clearing and cotton transport
equipment) incurred between April 1974 and the date of the Bank Loan and which
were essential to the projectse effective start-up. CCCE proposes to lend
US$ 3.6 million for the project, which would finance about8 percent of net pro-
ject costs. The CCCE Loan would have terms similar to the Bankts and an annua-L
interest rate of 5.5 percent. BNDA   and participating farmers themselves would
finance 13 percent (US$ 6.3 million) and 11 percent (Us$ 5.n million ) respectively,
of project costs, net of taxes and duties, while the remaininig 2 percent
(US$ 0.8 million) of net project costs would be financed by the Government.
53.      In addition to the financial arrangements -to cover the cQst ofa t.h
project proper, the Governnent would con-tinue to assure the financing oi' the
broader cotton development program as it has done since 196h. (Section 3.0
of Loan Agreeoent). This financing would be maiiitaismed throughout project
implementation at a level substantially equivalent to that o? 1973/74.  Un-
fortunately, the Governmentts budgetary allocation for 19714/75 (the first year
of the project) falls about US$ 1.0 million below the financial requirenrnt of
the basic field services, largely because of the unexpected and dramatic recent
price increases in agricultural inputs. CCCE has agreed, therefore, in principle
to help the Government meet this exceptional shortf'all. In addition to lending
the Governnent US5$ 3.6 million to help finance the project, the CCGE would make
an additional contribution of about US$ 0.U million towards the cotton program.
The total GCCE loan would,'therefore, be for US11$  .4 million equivalent.  The
balance of the shortfall (about US$ 0.2 million) would be financed by the
Government.
54.      BNDA?s contribution (US$ 6.3 million) to project financing would be
passed on to CIDT to finance credit to farmers; the BNDA would charge CIDT a
6.5 percent annual interest rate for short-term, and 7.5 percent for medium-
term funds. The interest spread between these rates and the rates charged to
farmers (para. 43) would be sufficient to cover CIDTts administrative ind
financial costs of credit.  The funds required by CIDT to construct and equip
the einneries and related facilities (about US$ d.7 million) would be on-lent
to CIDT by the Government under a Financial Agreement at 19 percent interest per
annum and with terms similar to the Barn loan - twenty years including a six-
year grace period - eection 3.01 (b) of Loan Agreement).  All other funids pro-
vided to CIDT under the project would be for extensioni and related services,
and would be in the form of a Government grant.  The resources required by the
Ministry of Public Works and by SAH to carry out their respective parts of the
project would also be Government grants.  These grants wculd be for investments
and services which Gavernments normally undertake as part oa their functions.



- 15 -
Procurement
55.      All contracts over US$ 50,000 for the procurenent of vehicles, farm
land clearinR and road construction eanipment, fertili7.Ars, insecticides and
sprayers and for the Construction and equipment of ginneries and vill.age wells
(totalling about US$ 23.0 million) would be through international competitive
bidding in accordance with IBRD guidelines. .Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the level of applicable import
duty, whichever is lower, when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign
manufacturera. Contracts for the construction of structures included in the
feeder road program (about US$ 2.9 million); for mechanical land clearing
(US$ 2.1 million); and for the construction of houses, offices and stores
(about US$ 2.3 million) would be individually too small and often too dispersed
to attract international contractors and would therefore be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, as would be contracts under
US$ 50,000. The rehabilitation of feeder roads (about US$ 2.9 million) would
be carried out by the Public Works Directorate on force account. A substantial
part of project costs (US$ 19.3 million) would be for on-farm hired labor,
materials and draft oxen to be procured by the farmers themselves, or for
staff salaries, and operating costs, none of which would be suitable for
competitive bidding.
Disbursement
56.      The Bank Loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 90 percent of the total incremental cost of CIDT headquarters and 
field services from 1975/76 through 1979/B0, and of the total cost
of the ox training centers (US$ 4.8 million);
(b)  100 percent of the CIF cost, or 5O percent of the total cost of:
(i) vehicles for cotton marketing (US$ 1i4 million); (ii) equipment '
for ginneries, roads, village wells, land clearing and food crop
cultivation (11S$ 4.0 million); and (iii) cotton sprayers and in-
.secticides-(US$ 1.2 million);
(c) 85 percent of the cost of: (i) establishment and operation of the maize
seed farm (us$ 0.6 million); (ii) civil works, and other.expenses of
feeder roads (U1S$ 3.1 million); and (iii) surveys for village wells
(us$ 0.5 million);
(d) 50 percent of the cost of civil works for ginneries, cotton storage,
garage/workshoj facilities, and village wells (US$ 4.0 million);
(e) 60 percent.of the co0t of land clearing other than equipment (,us$ 1.4
million); and
(f) US$ 10.0 million would be held as a contingency reserve.



- 16 -
Economic return
57.     The nrojectts direct benefit would be .in increase in cotton and food
crops production which should, in turn, result in improved living conditions for
the 81k,o00 farm families expected to participate in -the proiect. and in lairg,er
foreigrn exchance earnings for the Ivory Coast. Y1ost of the farm families expected
to benefit from this operation fal into the country's lowest >4o percent incomae
group with average per capita incomes of US$58.As a result of this pro.ject, their
per capita incomes, iii real terms, are projected to rise to about US$ b2
by the time the project reaches full devel1oprtment.  rhe follokring table compares
the estiimated structure of project participants' farrm incromes at present and iTi
the sixth year of project execution.
Project Year V                              Project Year 6
Percent of Farm        Per Capita           Percenit of Farm       Der Capit.
Families              Income                Families               Incoare
--T-$-'w--                                   US, -
19                  36                       _
75                  61 O5                                       66
5                  86                      35                   93
1                 129                      10                 1I13
100                  53                     0(u
`J1i.h rr LJ:ico Lc(-reJ,<n e <change ea-trni.ngrs, Uii net (e)antr:LbiLÀion oX bilc pro jec b
through export expansion and impor-t substitution (f'or rice) wouid )e abouot US31m
million per annum at full, development.
50.      The project's economic rate of return is estimated to be hi? percent,
a high rate which partly reflects the fact that the investment represented by
the project is small relative to that of the ongoing cotton program, which is
treated as a sunk cost. If, for sensitivity purposes, benefits were decreased
or costs increased by 20 percent, the project's return would still be 16 and
26 percent, respectively. Additional tests performed show that achievement
of only one half the expected rate of animal traction cultivation would still
result in an economic rate of return of 20 percent.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY'
59.      The draft Loan Agreement (Cotton Areas Rural Development Project)be-
tweenthe Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement
between the Bank and CIDT, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft re-
solution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
60.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement and the Px ject
Agreement which are referred to in Part IV of this Report, the following con-
dition of effectiveness is of stecial interest:
i) CIDT shall enter into a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with
SODERIZ. Such contract shall, inter alia, provide that:
(a) SODERIZ shall, as and when needed, supply CIDT with the necessary
technical assistance and sufficient quantity of rice seed of varieties
suitable to the differen t ecoloRical zones of the Project Area; end
(b)  SODERIZ shall purchase all paddy offered for sale by farmers
in the Project Area at the guaranteed official price.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOM MEDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 30, 1974






rbge i off ) pages
CWflb'2 DATA - 11M06! 0~13a
12,?SO ~,.'0                                       .2  ,;lon;jî                               2ff        Po, IIof ar-bla Ia.4
300IAL IDVICATORS
0O%PUFR CAItA0Un      (ATLAS BÀSIS) /                             3.50        3hC','            380~        430 /         1.o0
.WOO~AP161C
C-r000 bthlot. r   (Par Iboo.ad)                                 50          1/538                         34 /c         20~
Crud. death lots (Par thOo.ad)                                   23          23 /6            1h            7 70          6
loa.Ct mortallty rate (par thooaand liv. birth.)                ..          11  7é            125 If       hi 1  '       18 If
L,it. xpaot..oy at blrth <ya.ra)                                .9           42 7U             51          59 -             __
Orons r.produotioo rate /                                                   3.1 Al'           3.1         2.7           2.2
o.p.l.tion goot, rat. J                                          .          3. î7-g          2.146        2 9 L6
Pn,p.l.tion groot. rat  - orNb.                                               9 ..3
Ag. etrootora (paroant)
O-11                                                          13/         12/                6 [so      43 k           .
15.61                                                         5h 7no      557e              51 7h        53 7C        5,;
65 exo o-a                                                                  37~               37- /ao                   3
D.-d-.oy lotio /4                                                              -              ./0        1   7o       1'/
1.0 7q            I?7, q      i- 7_         13/
t;,.ban popudatlon a, perocot of total                          22/',r       38l Ai4 I`k a                 20 /0        (1 If ,
~.oiIy P jlog, NO or ....ptora ooooltiva (t60us.)                                             loti 0      220           979
No. off usera (% of moarri,d womn)             .            .12                          457            L
UNLOfl(EW:
toal -lc  efoo  (thoabeads)                               ..        2,30X0            1,500 La    3,200 /o         00'O
P.roentag e aploy.d in agricultore                             .           7                 57 /6 o     15 7c
Paroantog  ooeiployad                                          ..U __                                     6
%onorotto5.1 boo    .r.oiv.d Il high.t 5%                              )O /v  I0
P.rroolt or  ational Ince.a r=oe1vd by htgh.at 20%              s;7          5 
P.roo.t or otional ieoOoms r   ioetod by louent 20                 __
Parocot of nttona1 t.ooQe  reoalv,d by.offlet 70%lq7U17r
CISTRIROTION OF LAND OI8BRSHW
% owned by top 10 -o r oor a                                     ..                            53 /a.
% oaaod Ny moll.st 10% off Oanar                                                             0.5 7--
Po.lam  oo pr Pb2.lriao                                      22,0011 /ab  12,110            5,950        3,360 /c 0c   3,170 /r
PPoplation Por nuorsing Persan                               2,250 7.S    2,â80 /.d          730 b.d    1,080  od 17,230 78
Population par bospit.1 b.d                                   1,050 7n5     680 787          310 7.       330         2,980 7r),,!
Par OaPita calorie sopply as % of raqoir-nat. 15                            IL 1:1 lof         94  f       91. ,o / i    II /
Par capita protejo oupply, total (grua. par dayrJ                *           59 7-7            63 /5       L9  0f         17
Off whloh, onteal and pola.                                   ..              77!           1l           20  co
D..th rote i-t Yaar, /7                                         ..           .  .-6's                                     3'
Adj3otad /8 prteary  ohoo1 a.roilont ratio                      16           7107 /as                      ô9 /0         .
AdJ..te     .eoondary aohool  nroloso.t ratio                    2           il               2            3u 7C 
Tear. of i8ooling providad, firet suld seonod lavai13                        1                13           13           1
V cational anroilmant as % off eac. .cobol enrolimant           13            i                3h /.o
Adoit literacy lats I                                            91/r.ah     20 /faho         55 77A,oi,.j 8VI'~9 ,L.  i  73 Qyr,o
-,;rpNo. off parao,a par root (orban)                           /a.'      2.                 6 'aa       .1'/o
Parcant of oco,piod soit, aithoot piped voter                                                 39 '7~a,5
A0.-.. t0 eîaotrioity (os I o! tota1 pops.iaila)                 1 /ohc,m.                    îL      'a                  1 
Far-a,t off fou-  population..oon-otad to alaotrlolty
cQw         1--     r 1000 population                                                           771 j        ..) 'If
Pa..eng.,r cars par 1000 populationI                                         i                13           21, /C         3
lîsoîtrlo Po-r cono.orption ('caO .pC.)                         21          1,10             j5'   ~      9.. 7'        1 
Naesprlol ocoaooptios p.. kg par yaa                          0.2           I                  .1         3.8  7  o     . 
Notas, Figures   ef-er lther to the latent parlode or to            a.oonut off.ooanl ta.pantra, NoywiM                  n
tha Itatas y.ars. Latant parlod. rotar io prtnolple to              distribution oy aga and a«o of nati.a.l popsaimetl .
telb.ear 1956-60 or 1966-70; tb. latent yaera 1. prlo-          /6  Pr0t40 at,.dardo <raqoiranate) for .13. aoont,ria     ns atab-
cOpla t. 1960 ond 1970.                                              ,itahd Ny UED& Eoooooei RosearoN Service provida for -  , .trfnLo.
/I  Th. P., C.pito G0F satinât. la et -.klt po-Ior, for             .11oaa..o off 60 gra,o  of total proteto par day, and 20 grâe off
y-r   other ttoo  b60c    oaa     y the noas  ovoo              animai -,a p,olo. protet., of ehio  10 grma ahould b. aoi.a
teohniqua es the 1972 Morld Bank Attl.a.                        proteli.. Tha.. standards ara ea.hat lovor th-a th... or 75
2    ~earaga nombar off daughterar par oo-a of raproduotiva         graes off total prtotin and 23 grams off animal protalo a. an
aga.                                                            asorapt for the vorid, propead by PAO in the Taird Vorld PocA
Population goovth rmtes ara for 16. decades ending linov.r
1960 Mod 1970.                                                  R ocsa studios ha"a suggaatmd that oroda d.ath rato. of ch.ildrafn
RatIo off -udar 15 sad 65 aod over ega braoketa to               âe.a i throagh 45 mayb  oued as.   tiret appo-oi.etio  ied.. or
lb... Oin labor fore. breokat or agao 15 through 64.            maanatritioo.
FAO rfearance atndarda rapasolt pNysilogical ,               /8 Pepuantag oanroilld of corraepooding population off ochool &ga
quirmaent. ffor ooraal activity and health, takong              as deflfnad f0 aSCh country.
/a   1972;    Ab1965-70 UN aatiteaî;     /o Wesat Nalayait;    /d  Rsagterad only;     la  KeBtisat.;  /r   19,69;  Z&  1960-72;
7E   1965-70; 3. Ovar 1,000 popoaltion; al 1956-06; A 0er 10,000 populatioo; 4~ 19r-69; Im Cille. & tocsne; /n Affrloao popula-
10n n.r 'oo 7 15-59 year'6; /p 60 yaara & 0ver; Zj~LtIo off population snder iÇ & 65 & ov7r to total labor ffr-ca; /r 1965;
I.   1966;   /t- Oaetted rames of 10,000 or morena bilant.;        /u  males only;    le  1959 population;   Lw   Oloome
rocipieoi-7  /x  Data rate tor haubaif u0sit.;   Z    Hoiaaholde;   /a  Taown;   -7aa  0avarig h.5 od.lIron bectlera off
privat* land, .xcluding 0.8 adllilon bhot&era in publie owoerabip anid 2.1 miloLt          soff collective land;    /ab  1963;
/to  Number on lb. ragiater, mot all vorkif na 10   e lb.ountry;  /id  oovtnrnment only;  lae  1968;   /Arf 1961-66; 
7--  Includes overaga atudanta;    /ah. Datinition unkoman;,   /47i15 yaar. au    ovor;   7Z   Râad aod voIla;    /.k  1956-57;
__Urban and mrura;    /a.  Peroa-ttga of daaellinga vitb .ia6trial lighting;     /an  Farocantagaor boh.aing;   7ao   1971;
aUInaida or outaida.-
l'hoa Rapubl1c off China (1eiwao) ha. b.0n sleacted c, objacti!    oanry baoau,a of Jta h1gh rata of tr-thl coupl.d arlth
anl improvmac   of tha in0.o. distribution, it.   uCeaat in lbr. dvaloai         of produotioo ao~d exports, lhe domloant
rola off exporte in ila economlc devalioy.ent, the h1gh lavai off doa.a,ic ..vlongu ad the lm r-te off urban unemploy-
sent deapite a rural axodu,.
Rhà Soptmber 13, 1921



o e »e e w fO -1             w                                        °0 Zi |c-~cc o,owocn , tv
t c| qol °  ! r      °1_  -    I
1 « ^ -F ° -- çI 2 s t1@- 8 g 92 g <-' -I -0 6 o
'#                              t °° °' °i < 0 < '% ° ° ' ' ' ° ^~ < 5- «' 0 ° °. ., .f i t og <! > < CI 0
_                                              v  ~~~~~ - - _ .- e. _ .<> o s -. X X vr - _ f aD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  M
i                    s   t  ~~~~~~~     <t   <t   o  o z   0  e o   o o w .o f f     >  Z > f ! " ^ > o l c a S _ o t t C t s C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
wGO  q-O   e,   -0s°,"""     °_l,_ &Q_ _ ÔUSiS lmm Ot
If p        ,[ 
p                     ~~~~o     or   °° z   OOD    O  OC   g 0_ O h 0 ^ 1 E ;7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ° a« - j t 4 | X DS' <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~àl
C;  <  §<G   _  _ <N    «>   D  D !0 _ _ w 01 O S - ~~~ W S ~ °' ~~ ^ ~ ° SY1 1:} F- ç e G C e f c * N_ O F J;1 10 >e
8~~~~~~~~~I æ                                                  à         sa tI -!s^O4>X                   jo S ro              g
F- 0 - E                                                           e                               ig



JW@   ,.^.~œ`ç,^ ,t     , 
w 0t X o ED p J i2  t
ri;P 4# v6'e It N ,
7 1,                   e  , 
lÈl  ' - wR fR g _<J0ll é »t s  ~   Ë8      W
xrB~~~~~~~ clà                c     oFs






Yl~W l  IL-
Page 1
TI-LE STATUS OF BANI GROUP OPERATIONS IN IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank - loans and IDA credits
(as of Nove--)er 30, 1974)           US $ million
Loan or                                               Anount (less cancellations)
Credit N0o.   Year     Borrower       Purpose         BanIc    IDA     Undisbursed
542-IVC       196a     Ivory Coast    Roads            5.0                0.0
611 -IVC      1969     SODEPALM-      Oil Palm         3.3                0.5
PALMIVOIRE
612-IVC                PALMINDUSTRIE- Palm Oil
PAIIEVOIRE        14il1         4G0                0.5
613-IVC       1969     SODEPALM       011 Palm &
Coconut        9.0                1.1
667-IVC       1970     Ivory Coast    Education       11.0                8.1
606-Ivc       1970     Ivory Coast    Cocoa            7.,                4.7
759-IVC       1971     PALMINDUSTRIE- Palm Oil
PALMJIVOIRE     lill1           1.9                0.0
760-IVC       1971     SODEPALiMl     Oil Palm &
Coconut         5.1                3.1
761-IvC       1971     Ivory Coast    Roads           20.5                7.4
337-IVC       1972     Ivory Coast    Roads           17.5               15.5
93`-IVC       1973     SOCATCI        Rubber           d.4                7.3
406-ivc       1973     Ivory Coast    Roads                      7.5       7.3
1/
981-IVC       1974     Ivory Coast    Telecomnuni-
1/                                cations      25.0               25.0
1036-IVC       1974     Ivory Coast    Oil Palm III     2.6                2.6
1/
-IVC       1975     Ivory Coast    Cocoa II        20.0               20.0
TOTAL                         142.4       7.5    103.6
of which has been repaid       0.7       0.0
TOTAL now outstanding         141.7       7.5
Amount sold:         0.2
of? thich has been
repaid              0.2                   _
TOTAL now held by
Bank & IDA                  141.7       7.5
TOTAL undisbursed              96.3       7.3    103.6
1/ Not yet effective



A-NUEX II
Page 2
.3. STATaOENET OF IFC INVEST1I?JTS
(as of November 30, 197h)
ear     Co-Investor                  Type of             US Dollars
Business     Loan    Equity      Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne            Industrial     -     20h,000     204,000
de Développement           Development
Industriel                  Bank
Total gross comrnitments                    -     204,000     204,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                           -           -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                -     204,000     204hO00



!^vNNE II
Page 3
C.  Projects in Execution _/
>n. No. 611  612    First Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:   three loans for
F-3. 159 and 760     a total of US $17.1 million of June 13, 1969; Closing
-                         1975. Second Oi    Palm and Coconut
Zro4gets:  two loans      a total of' US  7z.0million
of June 22, 1974:   Closing Dates:  June 30, 1974 and
November 30, 1977.
These projecta are being implemented satisfa.ctorily and disbursement
1o proccoding normally. The oil mille financed in these projects have been
oom-iisionad. The planting programs are proceeding well.
Ln, No, 67          Education EroJect: US 11.0 million Loan of April 27, 197;
Cia srng I_71: June  9,77
71= rgu-t-.-97
The Lonn was amended to exclude from the project one of the 11 edu-
catlonal inatitutions to be constructed end to reallocate the proceeds of the
LoCn to tRice acoount of modified architectural standards. These changes were
notifiod to the Fxecutive Directors (See Memorandum to the Executive Directors
Rt71-246 of' November 3, 1971). TYie project has now entered the construction
phase with all contracts approved.   Disbursements should soon resume at a
normal pece. The Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1977.
-tn. 4,o. 6C6        Cocoa Project:  US $7.5 million Loan of June 5, 1970-
CligDate:September 30, 1977
The Coooa Loan has beon amended to reduce the number of hectares to
be rohabilitated.   Difficulties arose in supervising large number of farmers
who ued projent inputs to treat non-project cocoa.    The Government agreed to
oubtgntially roduoo tho vize of the rehabilitation program.    (See Memorandum
to the Exooutive Dircoators R73-74 of April 13, 1973). The project is proceeding
mttaftatorily exaept for administrative problems which have delayed the
eubm1tmion O.r requeatu for roiribursmomllt. However, administration of this and the
seoond vroject (Ln.    ) will be combined and An estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa plantings
will bc tranferred trom the firet to the second project.    Savings of US$ 2.2 million
rnulting from the âmendment (H73-74) and the mèrging of the two projecta will be
canaelled at the date of signature of the second project.
Ln. -No. 761        "aooiid Highway 'roject:  US $20 5 million Loan of June 22,
'197,1osn       at:     vebr30       95
A aoctîon oi the Yebayo-Men road will be rerouted due to present
unoortaintios concerning the construction of a dam in the area of the rod
(sec Memorandum to thc Executive Directors R73-170 of July 6, 1973).   Con-
atruotion on the Man-Duekoue and Bouake-Katiola roads is making good progress.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Excecutive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution, and in particular to report anrZ problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
proj ect execution.



ATJEX II
At the Government's request Bank financing of the detailed engineering of the
Badikaha-Ferkessedougou road was abandoned. The road will be constructed under
Government's own financing.
Ln. Jo. 837         Third Highway Project:  US $17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Closing ate: September 30, 1977.
The road maintenance and betterment program has started. A second
call for bids for the reinforcement works had to be made, however, due to
inadequate submissions.
Cr. No. ho6         Fourth Highway Project:  US $7.5 million Credit of June 28,
1973;  Closi_ Date: December _     11976.
Constructioni of the fJ'zi bridge has started. Bids on the Yabayo-
Gagnoa road have been received and contracts awarded.
Ln. 'To. 938        Rubber Plantation Loan:  US -$.4 million Loan of October 23,
1973, Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Land clearing and plantinc has started and progress has been
satisfactory.
Tal. o0. 931        Telecommunications Project:  US $25.0 million Loan of !4ay 3
197_; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1036        Third Qil Palm Project:  US $2.6 million Loan of June 27,
1974: Closing Date: dune 30, 1979.
This Loan is not yet effective.
Ln. "Io.            Second Cocoa Project:  US $20.0 million Loan of
1973    Closing Date:  June 30, 1960.
This Loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
IVOR  COAST - C0TTO-! AEAS -U~RAL DEV,î,LD, NT NOJSO_T
LOAU A'ID PROJ3E(T S{JU4Ali  .
Dorrower:   The flepublic of the Ivory C,oanst
Amoount U:    ' 31 million
Terms        Repayment in 20 years including 6 ycars of grace with iiterest rate
of & percent per annum.
Project Description:
The project would be carried out over six years (1974-1980) and consist of:
a) expanding the cot,on area from f7,000 ha to 80,000 ha and the are3 of
food crops grown n rotation with cotton from about 9,000 ha to 71,000 ha;
b) clearing 3PF,000 Ih- of land for the cultivation of cotton with ox-drawn
implements;
c) establishing two inew ox training centers;
d) establishing a ma 'ze seed farm;
e) providing credit to farmers for the purchase of i'arm inputs an(. cquioLpTnent;
f) training about 50 local artisans as blacksmniths !,oi service fartn eqvtipment;
g) building two cotton ginneries and providi.ng additional cotton transpor-t
and storage facilities;
h) improving about 920 km of feeder roads and constructing about 8C00 smail
bridges and drainage structures on exis±ing roads;
i) constructing 570 wells for village,water supply and
j) strenghtening the executing agency, CFDT, by Droviding additional mana-
gement and £ield staff'training extension agents; establishing a field
trials and monitoring unit; constructing buildings and supplying equipment.
Co-Lender:
The Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (France) will provide financing
for the equivalent of US$ 3.6 million.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Cost and Financing (in US$ million):
FOREIGN
IBRD CCCE GOVERNMENT BNDA FARMEHS TOTAL EXCHANGE t
CIDT
Extension Service
Headquarters & Field
Service                4.3   0.5      0.4       -      -      5.2      37
Ox Training Centers      0.5    -       0.1       -             o.6      33
Field Trials & M.U.       -    1.9      0.2       -      _      2.1      42
Subtotal              4.8   2.4      0.7- -                  7.9      3?8
Training Programs           -    0.2       -        -      -      0.2       -
Seed Farm                  0.6    -       0.1       -      -      0.7      38
Rice Equipment             0.2    -       0.1       -      -      0.       50
Subtotal CIDT         5.6   2.6      0.9       -      -      9.1      35
Cotton Spraying              1.2    -       0.3       -      -      1.5      75
Land Clearing                1.9    -       0.9       -      -      2.5     '7
Farm Inputs                   -     -       0.4      ù.5    - .6    8.5     1hO
Ginning & Related
Investments                5.0    -       O.6       -      -      5.6      62
Feeder Roads                 3.6    -       0.5       -      -      h.i      61
Village Wells                3.7    -       0.7       -      -      jh.)ù    54
Unallocated                 10.0   1.0      2.3      1.6    1.4    16.5      47
Total Project Costs         31.0   3.6      6.6      6.3    5.0    52.5      I7
Percentage of net
project costs             (66)   (8)      (2)      (13)   (11)   (1M0)
Estimated Disbursements:
The proposed project would be executed over a 6 year period and the loan
would be fuLly disbursed after six years. The following are the loanrs estimated
disbursements in US$ thousanids:
Year                             Cumulative disbursements
(fiscal years)
1975                                       2,135
1976                                       7,538
1977                                      13,667
197ô                                      20,089
1979                                      27,030
1980                                      31,000



A'NEX III
Page 3
Procurement Arrangements:
All contracts over US$ 50,000 for the procurement of vehicles, farm
land clearing and road construction eauiDment, fertilizers, insecticides and
sprayers and for the Construction and equipment of ginneries and village wells
(totalling about US$ 23.0 millioni) would be thrpugh international competitive
bidding in accordance with IBRD guidelines. Iomestically manufactured goods
would be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the level of applicable import
duty, whichever is lower, when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign
manufacturers. Contricts for the construction of structures included in the
feeder road program (about US$ 2.9 million); for mechanical land clearing
(US$ 2.1 million); and for the construction of houses, offices and stores
(about US$ 2.3 million) would be individually too small and often too dispersed
to attract international contractors and would therefore be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, as would be contracts under
US$ 50,000. The rehabilitation of feeder roads (about US$ 2.9 million) -would
be carried out by the Public Works Directorate on force account.   A substantial
part of project costs (US$ 19.3 million) would be for on-farm hired labor,
materials and draft oxen to be procured by the farmers themselves, or for
staff salaries, and operating costs, none of which would be s'xitable for
competitive bidding.
Consultants:
Consultants are to carry out (i) a three man-month study to set up a maize
seed farm; and (ii) 55 man-month hydrological and geological surveys to deterrnine
the appropriate location and nature of the 570 wells to be constructed under this
project.  Furthermore, two highway engineers will provide 60 man-months of coi-
sultantst services in connection with this project's feeder roads component. The
consultants retained for all these duties must be acceptable to the Bank.
Rate of Return:
The Project's economic rate of return is estimated to be 47 percent.
Appraisal Report:
No. 606-IVC, December 30, 1974.






IVORY  COAST                            1                                  1     .   ANNUAL R.INFALL(mra)
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT           --                  =I=NORTH                             PAVED ROADS
COYTTONl ARE AS e            ' .'À  . .            1. i    ---CENTER IPROJECrTAREAS -   GRAVEL ROADS
COTTON AREAS ^^CH;      + v   8                                   W | DS   ?  W--SOUTH  ---IEARTH ROADS
.. FACTORY LOCATIONS        PAVED ROADS(U/C)
A                                        B0rAlE r f  S  Et  L .sT  t 1w@I S  ~E,-1;-  | I CIDT REGIONAL HQS  -RAILWAYS
J0~ , .2 X Etr  X`/  . \rs  a  K:nl JCIDT SECTORS    ---INTERNATIONAL LOUNDES
il                       y *                           G5G t  s1 2  »   ; `,  i>,  ' s  l  G&V  *  EZSrS  l  |  \ FXPAN90N OF OX- RAWN
. , j * * Z *+ * . . ., X , , s , _,_ ps iT EREtZf efdANSfD r ~~~~~~INTENSIVE)EXcurlrN9
.1* oX SeED  *0ss SITE PO'  CATT1E           1
1. AFPICA/ t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                      -     x     'NEW GvmscR
'i               EW GIAINFQV  %. CATTLE MIGRATiONS
\0                    f                 1 . \ (/J.0            20 4   O l   100  L-~Io' fiD* 303  TOSND0
u ruTrhrrNo s r 6 « / hlrll                          yZ..  I  :LO(0MERSj- EAC WTo.     *   E    tET _~  (
r.                                         I                                   IA . 
~  ~.  o  *  *                       .  ~  *           -~   150<
I  I  I  I  I   ()  ~  E5MAIEDINHASITANT3 
__________________________  R'~r,dB~Ok0'Ir,,                                         o  EACH DOT EXPRESENTSni



