RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                   Report No. P-780
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS
HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
FOR THE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
February 25, 1970



INTZZNATIO.TAL BAM*K FCR RECO11STRLCTION AND DEVELOP1-ENT
REPORT AND RECO1dEMiTWDATION OF THE PRESIDEiT
TO THE E17CUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INSTITUTO DE RECIJRSOS HIDRAUTLICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
INI THE REPUBLIC OF PANAHA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan ijn an amount in various currencies equivralent to US$42 million for
a powuer project to Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion
(IPTE).
PURT I - EISTORICAL
2.        The proposed project is the second power project to be financed
in Panama by the Bank. The first power loan made in 1962 was also to IRHE
and helped finance a 6 11W hydroelectric plant.  This plant is nou in
operation.
3.        The proposed powrer project was submitted to the Bank for con-
sideration about six years ago. During the intervening period, discussions
took place with the Panamanian Government and IPEIE on the strengthening of
IR-EEts organization to enable it to handle the large expansion program
being ?lanned. Agreement was reached with the present Panamanian Govern-
ment on this and on the proposed financing plan in Ilarch 1969, and the
project was appraised in July 1969.  Negotiations took place in Washington
on February 9 through February 13, 1970. The Government was represented ty
Jose Antonio de la Ossa, linister of Finance, and Nicolas Ardito Barletta,
Director General of Planning, and the Borrower by Ing. Rafael Moscote,
Director General, Jaime Alvarado, Financial Adviser, and Oscar Ucross, Legal
Counselor. The Regulating Authority, the National Commission of Electric
Energy, Gas and Telephones, was represented by Ing. Victor Urrutia, Director
General.
4.        The proposed loan, the sixth to Panama, would increase the Bank'S
total lending to Panama from $18 million to $60 million (net of cancella-
tions). No IDA credits have been made to Panama. The following is a sumnary
of Bank loans to Panama as of January 31, 1970:



-2-
Amount
Loan                   Year                  (US$ million)
5 loans     1953-1962 (less cancellations        18.0
of which has been repaid
to the Bank and others             10.3
Total now outstanding                  707
Amo-unt sold:                 2 5
of which has been repaid    2.5       -
Total now held by Bank                 7.7
Total undisbursed                     nil
5.        TThe Bank has been deterred from lending to Panama in recent years
by administrative shortcomings in the public institutions responsible for
infrasbructural investments.  The new Government which came into power
toTards the end of 1968 put primary emphasis on improving the quality of
public administration, and the loan now being presented is the result of
the adoption of a program by the Government for strengthening the organi-
zation of the powier entity so that it can undertake the expansion program
propooed. A number of other projects are meanwhile being prepared for
consideration by the Bank, including projects for airport expansion,
fisheries and education.
6.        IFC has not yet .made any investment in Panama, but a proposed
investment of US$1,472,500 in a hotel project (Holiday Inns) is expected
to be presented to the Executive Direcvors on March 3, 1970.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                 Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos
y Electrificacion (IRHE).
Guarantor:                Republic of Panama.



-3-
P. nunt:                  U2$4'1 million.
PLrpose:                  To finance the foreign exchange
costs of two 75 NW units at the
Bayano hydroelectric plant; a 40 I4V
steam unit at Bahia Las Linas; 6 114
of diesel capacity; and related
transmission and distribution facili-
ties, engineering and consulting
services, and studies for future
power development.
Anortization:              25 years, including a 6-year period
of grace; amortization in semi-annual
installments beginning May 1, 1976
and ending May 1, 1995.
Interest Rate:            7 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of the Second Power
Expansion of the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion,
Panama" (PU-28a) is attached.
9.        The total generating capacity in Panama, outside the Canal Zone,
is about 155 INW. ILHE' s share is about 50 NY, the rest being owned and
operated by private companies, particularly Cia Panamena de Fuerza y Luz
(CPFL), a private U.S.-owned company, which has a generating capacity of
89 NMW. The Canal Zone is supplied by the Panama Canal Company, a U.S.
Government agency, with a capacity of about 168 IW.   Until recently the
connection between the Canal Zone and the rest of Panama was primarifly
for the exchange of emergency power, but the Canal Zone has recently
signed a 25-year contract with IRHE to purchase 30 Hi from its Las Minas
plant and may purchase some of its other future power requirements from
IRHE.  Thus, IRHE is rapidly becoming the main supplier of power in Panama
and now has the exclusive right to construct and operate all new sources
of generation in the country, selling power twrholesale to private retailers.
10.       IRHE was established in 1961 as an autonomous state-owned govern-
ment agency for coordinating and expanding electric power generation
throughout the Republic. It is governed by a seven-member Board of
Directors, all appointed by the President of the Republic. The present
Chairman of the Board is the Director General of Planning and Administration



in the Office of the Presi-dent and the other official Board Members represent
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Commerce and the National
Commission of Electric Energy, Gas and Telephones. There are also three
private members representing the Banking Association the Federation of
Industrialists and the Panamanian Society of Engineers and Architects;
these are appointed for staggered terms of seven years each and are eligible
for re-appointment. The Board is a policy--making authority, and the day-to-
day operations of IRHE are in the hands of the Director General who is
also appointed by the President of the Republic and is responsible for all
managerial and administrative functions. The general organization structure
of IRHE is satisfactory, and its management and staff, assisted by manage-
ment and engineering consultants, with whom a contract has already been
agreed, should be capable of carrying out the proposed project.
ll.       The project consists of: (a) the construction of the Bayano
hydroelectric plant, including one dam, an auxiliary dam and power house
with two 75 I{d *mits and related transmission line to Panama City and
race-.ving substation; (b) installation at Bahia Las Minas of a fourth
40 i1ZI steam unit with related transmission line to Panama City-; (c) 6 14W
of additional diesel capacity for the Central Provinces, including sub-
station facilities; (d) expansion of IRHE's distribution systems, including
the addition of small diesel units during 1970-72; and (e) payments for
engineering consultants, training of staff and studies for future power
developmant,
120       The total estimated cost of the project, excluding interest during
construction, is $58-3 million, of which the proposed Bank loan would
cover the foreign exchange costs, Under a financing plan, which has been
prepared by ERHE for the period 1970 through 1975, this loan would meet
51 percent of the companyts total financial requirements, including other
construction expenditures and prov4sion for an increase in working capital.
The remainder would be covered by government contributions (23 percent),
an operating subsidy from the Government (7 percent), other borrowings
(16 percent) and IRHE's net internal cash generation after paying interest
during construction and other debt service requirements (3 percent).
Procurement of goods and services for the project will be on the basis of
international competitive bidding. No retroactive financing is envisaged.
130       The annual growth rate in total power sales in the MIetropolitan
System serving the areas of Panama City and Colon has ranged from 7 percent
to 15 percent during the past 19 years, with an overall average of 10 per-
cent. Future growth in demand for power from Panama City and Colon will
be met by IRHE, whose power sales in the period 1969-76, excluding sales
to the Canal Zone, are expected to grow at an average rate of 11.2 percent.
The system will be short of firm capacity until 1975, but this situation
will be manageable by utilizing the Canal Zone plants in emergencies. The
proposed project is needed to meet the growing demand for power, and is
a nore economical means of achieving this objective than an all-thermal
system which would be the only practical alternative,



14,      IXEI E's past operatiors have been primarily to supply power to
rural areas and hence it has had to rely heavily on debt financing and
government contributions, with practically no internal cash generation.
Howe-ver, the new legislation passed in July 1969 has laid the foundation
for the development of a major generating company and, with additional
government contributions already assured by law, IRIHE should be able to
achieve a sound financial position by 1972 when its two major steam plants
are producing revenues. IRHE is not as yet regulated and has entered into
long-term contracts with the Canal Zone and CPFL, its main bulk customers,
for the sale of power from its first 40 IN Las Minas unit. However, the
Government has decided to regulate IRHE from January 1, 1971, and under
the proposed regulations a minimum rate of return of 8.75 percent will
be provided from January 1, 1972, Excluding the Government's operating
subsidyr, internal cash generation coverage of total debt service require-
n:ents during the construction period will range between 1,0 to 14 times.
PART TV - LEGAL INSTRTIENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and IRHEI  the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Panama, the
reports of the Committee provided for in Article III,Section 4 (iii) of ;
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of the Resolution on the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately,
16;       The provisions of the Loan Agreement generally conform to the
pattern of loan agreements for similar projects, A special event of
default is included in Section 6.02, namely, that if, after Panama returns
to an elected government and the legislature reconvenes and if legislati7e
approval in respect of the project is needed, such approval is not
obtained,
17,       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement are.
(i) removal of IRHE's representative from the Regulatory Commissicn
(Section 7001(a)(i)); (ii) submission of IRHE to the jurisdiction of the
Regulatory Commission (Section 701(a)(ii)); (iii) ensuring that application
of electricity legislation does not endanger the finances of public
utilities in Panama (Section 7,01(a)(iii)); and (iv) setting of standards
for rate fixing for telephone services (Section 7e01(b))o
18.       The Guarantee Agreement also follows the usual patternm   A
special feature is that the Government will construct the roads providing
access to the project sites (Section 3.10).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.       The economic report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Panama (CA-2, dated February 19, 1970) !Y2.l be circulated to the
Executive Directors shortly, The report notes that Panama has achieved



- 6 -
rapid economic growth in the 1960's (aLmost 8 percent annually under
conditions of reasonable price stability), a result which was mostly
due to a dynamic private sector able to exploit a steadily expanding
external demand for services and, to a lesser extent, merchandise.
However, the Government's finances and its action in direct support of
economic development left much scope for improvements, Administrative
and organizational weakresses adversely affected both the execution
of public investment projects and the maintenance of existing infra-
structure. As a result, public investment has been low in comparison to
the needs of the economy, and bottlenecks are emerging in such sectors
as pouer, water supplies, road maintenance, airports, fishing ports and
vocational and secondary education. The pressing need for a more active
government role in support of development arises from the fact that
Panama's basic problems - a rapidly growing population, urban migration,
unemployment, uneven income distribution - are still serious. and from
the prospect that in 15-20 years the Canal Zone may cease to be a major
source of ermployment.
C.       The present Government, which took power in October 1968, has
made a good start towards correcting the most serious institutional
problems and plans to increase substantially the allocation of resources
to public investment. Recognizing that Panama has a record of low-
public sector revenues and savings, it has strengthened the tax collection
machinery and introduced additional taxes. The impact of the measures
already taken or under way will be to raise tax revenues from some 11 per-
cent of GIIP in 1968 to 1393 percent in 1971. The Government has prepared
a tentative public investment program for the next four years, the main
components of which, on the whole, are projects well designed to meet
Panama's development objectives. The resulting overall levels of
expenditure may, howiever, be overly ambitious in relation to the admini-
strative and financial capacities of the public sector, and the Govern-
ment is ready to stretch out the program, if necessary, by slowzJing down
some of the less important projects.
21        The economic report concludes that, with effective implementation
of the fiscal and administrative measures being introduced by the
Government, Panama is creditwrorthy for considerable amounts of newi external
borrowing on conventional terms.   IJhile the long-term prospects for
earnings from the Canal are clouded by uncertainties connected with the
possible construction of a new sea-level canal, medium-run prospects
for expanding external earnings and domestic production are good. Panama
has an excellent record of meeting its external debt obligations. I.Iore-
over, the maximum debt service ratio, projected on the basis of existing
public debt, is under 4 percent, and Panama should be able to meet its
external capital requirements over the next fewi years, including borrowing
cnder the proposed pof7er loan) ,ithcout the ratio rising above 7 _ercent,



-7-
-.HT VI - CO -1LIA,E TITIT ARTICLES OF AGREEMJT
22,       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply w.ith the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank3
PART VII - RECo;b tThD.TI-i
.230      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Attachments                                       Robert S. Mc Namara
President
February 183, 1970
WTashington, D ,C.



