FILE COPY                           RESTRICTED
Report No. PU-28a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
OF THE INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
PANAMA
February 19, 1970
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                =  Balboa (B)
B 1.00 = 100 centesimos      =  US$1.00
IRHE's financial year        =  Calendar year
UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
m                  = meter                            = 3.28 feet
km                 = kilometer                        = 0.621 mile
km2                = square kilometer                 = 0.387 square mile
m3                 = cubic meter                      = 35.31 cubic feet
m3/sec             = cubic meter per second           = 35.31 cubic feet per second
kg                 = kilogram                         = 2.2 pounds
kg/cm2             = kilogram per square centimeter = 14.22 pounds per square inch
kW                 = kilowatt
MW = Megawatt      = 1,000 kilowatts
kWh                = kilowatt hour
GWh   Gigawatt hour= 1,000,000 kWh
kV                 = kilo volt
MVA                = megavolt-ampere
Annual Load Factor = kWh generated in year
maximum demand in kW x 5760
ACRDNIMS
CPFL   -  Compania Panamena de Fuerza y Luz
EPITSA - Estudios y Projectos Technicos Industriales, S. A.
IRHE   -  Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion



P'ANAMA
APPRAISAL OF THF SECOND POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
OF THE INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY ANI) CONCLUSIONS .....       .......................i
1.   INTRODUCTION   .......................................1
2.   THE ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY IN PANAMA.                         2
Existing Facilities.                                     2
Regulation and Tariffs.                                  4
3. THE PROJECT.                                                     6
Description.                                             6
Estimated Cost.                                          7
Engineering.                                             8
Construction.                                            9
Procurement and D)isbursement.                           9
4. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT .10
The Power Market .10
Comparison of Alternatives .11
5. THE BORROWER .12
Legislation .12
Organization and Management .12
Accounting and Audit .13
Past Operating Results and Financing .14
Present Financial Position .14
6.   FINANCING PLAN AND FINANCIAL PROSPECTS .16
Proposed Financing Plan .16
Estimated Future Operating Results .18
7.   AGREEMtENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS .19
This report is based on feasibility studies carried out by IRHE's
consultants, Estudios y Projectos Tecnicos Industriales, S.A., - EPTISA,
(Spain), on information prepared by IRHE and Stone and Webster (U.S.),
and on the findings of a Bank mission, consisting of Messrs. Onslow,
Stahl and Hutchins, which visited Panama in July, 1969.






PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND POWER EXPANSION PROJECT OF THE
INiSTITUTO DL RECURSOS IIIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
LIST' OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1.   IRFIE, CPFL, EMPRESA HIDROLECTRICA CHORRERA, EMPRESA ELECTRICA
SANTIAGO ANT) CANAL ZONE - INSTALLED CAPACITY AND GENERATING
CAPABILITY
2.   LEGISLATION
3.   ESTIMTATED COST OF THE PROJECT
4.   DEMANID ANI) CAPABILITY - METROPOLITAN AREA, CENTRAL PROVINCES,
PANAMA WEST ANT) CANAL ZONE
5.   SYSTEN CAPACITY AND DEMAND
6.   DATA USETI IN THE ElCONOMIC EVALUATION
7.   INCOME STATEMENTS - 1965-1968 AND ESTIMATED INCOME STATEMENTS -
1969 -1976
f.   BALANCE SlllEETS - 1965-1968
9.   FSTIMATFED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS - 1969-1976
10.   ESTIMATED FINANCIA. RATIOS - 1969-1976
11.  F,STIMATEID BALANCE SHFETS - 1969-1976
MIAPS - 1. LOCATION OF BAYANO HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT
2. MEFTROPOLITAN AREA, CANAL ZONE, PANAMA WEST AND CENTRAL PROVINCES






PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
OF THE INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of the Second Power Expansion
Project of the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE),
the Government-owned power agency. It includes the construction of the
Bayano Hydroelectric Development on the Bayano River (ultimate capacity
300 MW) with an initial installation of 2 - 75 MW units; a 40 MW steam unit
at Bahia Las Minas; 230 kV and 115 kV transmission lines; 6 MW of diesel
power; and expansion of distribution for the years 1970 through 1972.
The Project also includes overseas training for the staff of the Borrower
and a study of the future electric power development in Panama. The cost
of the Project which will be completed in 1975, and which is part of a
US$94.4 million eight-year construction program (1969 through 1976), would
be US$58.3 million; the Project's foreign exchange cost, excluding interest
during construction, is estimated at US$42 million, which is the amount of
the proposed loan. The balance of the program and the provision of adequate
working capital would be financed by: US$5.5 million from suppliers' credits,
which have already been arranged; US$6.9 million from IRHE's internal cash
generation; US$28.0 million from Government contributions and US$14.1 mil-
lion from a future foreign loan.
ii.       IRHE was established by Law 37 in 1961 to coordinate power
development in Panama. In 1962 it obtained a Bank loan (322-PAN) of
US$ 4 million to construct the small La Yeguada hydroelectric plant
(e MW) to serve the Central Provinces. The entity came under consider-
able political pressure, which resulted in mismanagement and financial
difficulty. In addition, its operating costs were above original esti-
mates and IRHE has been unable to fulfill the rate of return covenant
in the Bank loan.
iii.      It was not possible to obtain the necessary reforms in the legis-
lation creating IRHE to put it on a satisfactory operating basis until
October 1968, when the present de facto government took control. In July
1969 Decree No. 235 was passed to replace Law 37 and now provides a suit-
able basis upon which IRHE can develop. The decree incorporates the prin-
cipal recommendations of consultants (Stone and Webster, U.S.A.) who were
engaged by IRHE to study its organization and recommend changes. The main
provisions of the decree put the management of IRHE in the hands of a
Director General, who is no longer subject to change when the President of
the country changes, and ended the interference by the Board of Directors
of IRHE in day to day operations by limiting their role to policy matters.
A number of lesser modifications to IRHE's organization and management have
been included to give it more autonomy and to isolate it as much as possible
from political interference. If Decree 235 is properly applied, IRHE should
henceforth be a sounder institution.



- ii -
iv.      tUp to the present the major electric power center in Panama has
been in the metropolitan area of Panama City and Colon, which also contains
the Panama Canal. Public service in this area other than the Canal Zone
has been provided exclusively by Compania Panamena de Fuerza y Luz (CPFL),
a private company which generates its own power and distributes it. The
Canal Zone has its own source of power. In 1969 IRHE completed the Las
Minas No. 2 40 MW steam plant, which was constructed and financed by
Gruppo Industrie Elettro Meccaniche per Impianti all'Estero, S.p.A. (GIE)
of Italy. This power is now being sold to the Panama Canal and to CPFL
by IRHE on contract and signals the start of IRHE's entry into power
generation on a significant scale.
V.        In addition to the provisions noted in paragraph iii above,
Decree 235 gives IRHE the exclusive right to construct and operate all
new sources of electric power generation in the countrv. The implementa-
tion of the proposed Project would convert IRHE from a small rural orient-
ed utility to th.e major electric power entity in Panama and relegate CPFL
and the other smaller companies to the role of distributors who will pur-
chase power in bulk from IRHE.
vi.       In January 1969 the Government passed Decree No. 6 which reacti-
vated the Regulatory Commission for the Electric, Gas and Telephone indus-
try with specific instructions to enforce the standards established in
Electricity Law No. 31 (1958) for regulating electric companies, which up
to then had not been applied. While a properly conducted Regulatory
Commission is essential to the orderly control and development of the
electric power sector, there are aspects of the present decree which are
still unsatisfactory. The Government has agreed to modify the existing
legislation before the proposed loan is made effective, so that the Regu-
latory Commission is an impartial Government Agency which will regulate
the electric and telephone industries impartially and in accordance with
the provisions of the pertinent laws. To this end, IRHE would not sit as
a member of the Regulatory Commission, as now specified in Decree No. 6.
A Law establishing standards for regulating the telephone industry, would
be prepared to supplement the Electric Law No. 31. The financial viability
of CPFL, which provides service for electricity and telephones and will be
IRHE's principal customer could be jeopardized if telephone services are
not regulated. In addition, the provisions of Electricity Law No. 31 will
not be made retroactive to a period prior to January 1, 1969.
vii.      The financial viability of all entities in the electric power
sector is essential for its proper development and this in turn will re-
quire the prompt and impartial application of Electricity Law No. 31 and
the proposed Telephone Law. The Electricity Law provides the basis for
satisfactory rates of return of between 8-3/4% and 10-1/2%. Tariffs should
be adjusted promptly by the Regulatory Commission for IRHE, CPFL and all
other electric power entities when required to allow the applicable rate
of return. Satisfactory undertakings have been obtained during negotiations
from the Government and IRHE in regard to the above.
viii.     IRHE will not start earning an 8-3/4% return on net fixed
assets in operation until 1972, after the Las Minas No. 3 thermal plant



- iii -
(which is being financed by suppliers' credits), comes into operation.
After that IRHE's financial position would further improve as the plants
under the Project go into operation and produce revenues provided tariffs
are adjusted when necessarv to permit IRHE to achieve an 8-3/4% rate of
return. Until the Project is completed, IRHE will depend heavily on
government capital contributions (US$ 28 million) and an annual govern-
ment subsidy of US$ 1.2 million to provide funds for the local currency
expenditures of the Project. Decree 235 stipulates the manner in which
these payments from the government will be made. The Government's US$
1.2 million annual subsidy is to be reduced after 1980 and ceases after
1990, at which time IRHE should no longer require subsidies.
ix.       The proposed combined thermal and hydroelectric Project is
economically more advantageous than an all thermal development of the
power sector for discount rates of less than 16%.
X.        IRHE has engaged consultants for the design and supervision of
construction of the Project, which will be built by contractors. Hence,
no unusual difficulties are foreseen in the completion of the Project
even though IRHE itself has not previotusly had experience with a project
of this magnitude. IRHE has also had the assistance of consultants in
the past for management and accounting matters and intends to continue
using consultants.
xi.       The conditions which were largely responsible for IRHE's poor
performance and financial difficulties in the past would be corrected by
the changes in the legislation mentioned in paragraphs iii and vi. The
present loan would help to make IRHE a viable enterprise, provided that
tariff adjustments are made henceforth for all power entities, including
IRHE and CPFL, promptly and completely when required.
xii.      The proceeds of the loan would finance the foreign exchange
cost of equipment and services and the foreign exchange component of
civil works contracts. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding. IRHE does not intend to ask for bids
until after the loan has been approved, and no contracts, other than to
consultants, have been awarded.
xiii.     Satisfactory agreement having been reached regarding the points
summarized in paragraphs 7.01 of this report, the proposed Project is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$ 42 million equivalent, for a term of 25 years,
including a grace period of about 6 years. The Borrower would be IRHE and
the loan would be guaranteed by the Republic of Panama.






PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
OF THE INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report covers the appraisal of the Second Power Expansion
Project of the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE).
The Project includes the construction of the 300 MW Bayano Hydroelectric
Development, with an initial installation of 2 - 75 MW; the installation
of a 40 MW steam plant at Las Minas; the construction of transmission lines
associated with the power plants, distribution system expansion and con-
sulting services.
1.02      IRHE's program for the period 1969 through 1976, in addition to
the Project, includes investment in one 40 MW steam unit now under con-
struction, some small diesel and hydro units and initial investment in
the proposed next major hydroelectric development. With this program,
IRHE will grow from a minor power enterprise engaged in rural electrification,
with 56 MW of generating capacity in 1969, to Panama's principal wholesaler
of power with 287 MW of installed capacity when the Project is completed in
1975.
1.03      The total cost of IRIIE's program is about US$ 94.4 million.  The
estimated cost of the Project is US$ 58.3 million. The Government of
Panama has asked the Bank for a loan to meet the foreign exchange costs of
the Project, which are estimated at US$ 42 million (72% of the total esti-
mated cost).
1.04      The Bayano Hydroelectric Development has been under investigation
in Panama by various organizations since about 1957. In October 1966 IRHE
appointed the Spanish firm of Estudios y Projectos Tecnicos Industriales
S.A. (EPTISA) as consultants to design Bayano. Their report was completed
in November 1968 and submitted to the Bank in March 1969. In April, IRHE
sent to the Bank a seven year (1969 through 1975) forecast of its electric
utility operating costs and revenues and its construction requirements,
which it had prepared with the help of the U.S. Consultants, Stone and
Webster. An appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Alan A. M. Onslow,
Ger J. P. Stahl and A. J. David Hutchins visited Panama in July. This
report is based on the studies carried out by EPTISA, on information pre-
pared by IRHE and Stone and Webster, and on the findings of the Bank mission.



- 2 -
2. THE ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY IN PANAMA
2.01      Panama's central position in the Western Hemisphere, at a point
where the distance between the Pacific and the Atlantic oceans is the
shortest, has been its most important source of prosperity. Construction
of a trans-isthmus railroad in 1855, the establishment of a U.S. adminis-
tered Canal Zone in 1904 and the opening of the Canal in 1914 laid the
basis for the development of a sophisticated service-centered and outward-
oriented economy.
2.02.          Panama has achieved a rapid economic growth in the past
two decades. Against a background of price stability, economic growth
accelerated from 5 percent a year during the 1950's to almost 8 percent
in 1960-68 (or 4.5 percent on a per capita basis), the highest rate of
any country in the hemisphere. Per capita income now exceeds US$ 500.
As a center of employment and income, the Canal Zone (which has over
50,000 residents, mostly U.S. citizens) has been the major factor of
Panama's economic growth. In the last decade, however, with the help
of large amounts of foreign capital the economy has become somewhat less
dependent on the Canal by developing into one of the most advanced com-
mercial and banking centers in Latin America and by exporting bananas,
refined oil and shrimp. The main areas of agricultural activity are the
Central Provinces and Chiriqui Province, situated in the western part of
the country and connected to Panama City by the Interamerican Highway.
Panama has no known fossil fuel deposits. There are a number of potential
hydroelectric sites which appear to be economic, especially in the western
provinces.
2.03      Excluding the Canal Zone, the average annual per capita con-
sumption of electricity in 1968 was approximately 340 kWh.  In the deve-
loped power market areas, the growth of energy consumption over the past
ten years has been rather uniform and steady, at a rate of about 11% per
annum.  Prospects are for continued economic expansion and parallel
growth of energy consumption. The energy consumption is concentrated in
the Panama City and Colon metropolitan areas, which form the principal
power market and together account for approximately 85% of the national
consumption; Chiriqui Province in the west consumes about 9%, the Central
Provinces 4%, and isolated areas the remaining 2%. On average, about 35%
of the gross consumption is residential, 35% commercial, 19% industrial,
and the remaining 11% for public services. Load factors are high, due
to intensive use of air-conditioning in the urban centers.
Existing Facilities
2.04      The public power sector of the Republic of Panama comprises three
regional systems plus about 50 small and isolated diesel power stations.
As of mid-1969 the total installed capacity was 155 MW, of which about
two-thirds was owned and operated by private companies, the remainder by
IRHE. (See Annex 1 for details of installed capacity.) The most important
and largest of the regional systems is the Metropolitan System, serving the



- 3 -
metropolitan area of Panama City and Colon. The present demand of the
Metropolitan System is about 96 MW, of which Cia Panamena de Fuerza y Luz
(CPFL), a U.S. owned private company, supplies 88.5 MW and the remaining
7.5 MW is supplied by IRHE. Next in importance is the Chiriqui Province
system in the west of the country with a demand of about 10 MW, supplied
by another private company, Empresas Hidroelectricas de Chiriqui. Third
in size is the Central Provinces system with a demand of about 6 MW,
supplied by IRIIE. The three systems are located along the Interamerican
Highway, about 200 km apart. The 50 isolated diesel power stations are
mostly owned and operated by IRHE.
2.05      The Canal Zone is supplied by the Panama Canal Company, a U.S.
Government agency. Its present demand is about 100 MW. Until 1968 a 115
kV tie line between the Canal Zone and the Metropolitan System served
primarily for the exchange of emergency power. In 1969 the Panama Canal
Company entered into a 25-year contract with IRHE for the purchase of
30 MW of steam power from Las Minas No. 2. Although the Zone is free to
construct its own new generating plant, the Panama Canal Company has in-
dicated that it is willing to increase its purchases of power from IRHE
as soon as there is a dependable supply at a reasonable price.
2.06      IRHE was created on January 31, 1961 by Law No. 37 as an autono-
mous state-owned Covernment agency for the main purpose of coordinating
and expanding electric power generation and distribution throughout the
Republic (see 5.01). Law No. 37 assigned to IRUE the exclusive right
to develop the hydro resources of the country, thereby restricting the
expansion of the private companies. The present Panamanian Government,
on July 30, 1969, passed a decree (No. 235) which replaces Law No. 37.
IRHE is now charged, inter alia, with the exclusive right to construct
and operate all new sources of generation in the country, except for
certain transitory arrangements. IRHE's role as wholesaler to private
retailers is hereby established by law. This transition began earlier
this year when CPFL signed a contract with IRHE for 7.5 MW from the Las
Minas No. 2 unit.
2.07      IRUE's entry into electric power generation started in 1962
when the Bank made Loan 322-PAN to finance construction of La Yeguada
6 MW hydroelectric plant in the Central Provinces and other diesel plants
and distribution system expansion. The construction of this plant was
about 15 months behind schedule due to heavy rains in 1966 and labor
problems in 1967. It came into operation late in 1967.
2.08      In the early days IRHE was small, inexperienced and subject to
considerable political interference, which led to mismanagement and an un-
favorable financial position. During 1968-69 discussions were held between
IRHE, the Panamanian Government and the Bank to develop new legislation to
improve IRHE's organization and management to overcome past defects. As a
result Decree Law 235 was passed which is discussed in detail in Annex 2
and paragraph 5.01.



-4-
Regulation and Tariffs
2.09      Until 1957, the power sector in Panama was operated exclusively
by private entities under franchises and without any Government regulation.
In 1958, the National Commission of Electrical Energy, Gas and Telephones
was formed to regulate the electric, gas and telephone industries. Later
that year Law No. 31 was passed establishing the standards for regulating
the electric companies. However, the provisions of the law were not en-
forced until Cabinet Decree No. 6 was passed in January 1969 to reactivate
the Regulatory Commission, with specific instructions to apply the provi-
sions of Law 31.
2.10      The Regulatory Commission is essential to ensure the orderly
development of the electric power sector composed of a number of privately
owned entities and the major government-owned power entity. However, to
be effective it must be an autonomous government agency which can enforce
the provisions of the pertinent laws impartially for all entities, whether
owned by government or privately. Decree No. 6 names the Director General
of IRHE as ex-officio Deputy Director of the Regulatory Commission and ex-
empts IRHE from regulation. Thus only the private companies are regulated
and the impartiality of the Commission is jeopardized. Both the Government
and the Bank consider Decree No. 6 unsatisfactory and the Government has
agreed to amend it before the proposed loan if; made effective, by removing
IRHE's Director General from the Board of the Regulatory Commission and
making IRHE also subject to regulation.
2.11      The Electricity Law (No. 31) generally provides adequate regula-
tion for the electric industry and allows a satisfactory rate of return on
net fixed assets in operation plus working capital of between 8-3/4% and
10-1/2%. Annex 2 gives further details on the provisions of the law. How-
ever, there are two defects which should be corrected: (a) the law contains
standards for the electric industry only and should be accompanied by
similar legislation to regulate the telephone industry; (b) the law permits
the Regulatory Commission to apply its provisions retroactively to 1958 when
the law was passed. The Government agrees, that these defects should be
corrected and has undertaken to pass legislation to correct them before the
proposed loan becomes effective.
2.12      IRHE has negotiated contracts for a minimum period of 25 years
with its main customers, CPFL and the Panama Canal Company, for the sale
of the whole of the output of the 40 MW Las Minas No. 2 unit. Basically,
these contracts provide a revenue which is designed to cover all operating
and maintenance expenses, and debt service on Las Minas No. 2 unit and a
portion of general and administration expenses. The revenue per kWh sold
is approximately 9.5 mills, which should provide a rate of return on this
investment only, of upwards of 9.5%. No contracts have yet been signed
with CPFL or any other undertaking for the sale of power from Las Minas
units Nos. 3 and 4 or from the Bayano plant. While the sales contracts for
the output of the Las Minas No. 2 unit were satisfactory at the time they
were signed in 1968, they are not based upon the provisions of the elec-
tricity law. As of January 1, 1972 IRHE will be regulated under the same



- 5 -
legislation governing the other entities in the electric power sector and
would have its wholesale and retail tariffs set at a level which would allow
it to earn the rate of return stipulated in Law 31, (IRHE's present capita-
lization would permit it to earn 8-3/4%). This will ensure impartial and
equitable treatment of all power entities, including IRHE, and provide the
base on which their financial viability can be assured. Additionally, once
the Electricity legislation is amended the Government has agreed not to
materially change any of the laws which would adversely affect the regulat-
ion of the Power industry, without prior approval of the Bank.
2.13      In addition to its two main wholesale customers, IRHE plans to
sell power wholesale in the Central Provinces for about 2.5¢ per kWh.
Such sales will be relatively small, representing about 2% of total kWh
sold. IRHE also has about 19,000 rural consumers, in some 49 different
locations, of which approximately 3,000 are on an unmetered supply. The
tariffs for these 19,000 customers are high due to the high cost of diesel
generation and bring in an average revenue of about 8f per kWh sold. The
present government realizes this is a high rate and has passed a decree
imposing a tax on electricity consumption in the cities which would be
passed to IRHE and used to subsidize rates in the rural areas. Since it
will need all the funds it can generate, IRHE agreed during negotiations
that unless the 8-3/4% rate of return is achieved, it will not adjust tariffs
to reduce its revenues from rural customers by an amount greater than any
tax so collected, unless the Bank otherwise agrees.



- 6 -
3. THE PROJECT
Descr4ption
3.01      The proposed Project comprises the major part of IRHE's 1969-1976
investment program and consists of:
(a)  The first stage of the Bayano hydroelectric development
including one main dam, an auxiliarv dam, a powerhouse
with 2 x 75 MW units, 80 km of 230 kV transmission line
to Panama City, and a receiving substation;
(b)  A 40 MW steam unit (No. 4) to be installed at Las Minas oni the
Atlantic coast;
(c)  A 55 km 115 kV transmission line from Bahia Las Minas to Panama
City;
(d)  6 MW of additional diesel capacity for the Central Provinces
and the western part of Panama Province including 7.5 MVA of
substation facilities;
(e)  Expansion of small isolated distribution systems including the
addition of small diesel units during 1970-1972;
(f)  Studies for future electric power development; and
(g)  Consulting services and overseas training for IRIIE's staff.
3.02      The Bayano hydroelectric development would be located 80 km east
of Panama City on the Bayano River, about 40 km from the present termination
of the Interamerican Highway (see map 2). The Bayano Dam (main dam) and
the Viejo Pedro Dam (auxiliary) would form a reservoir of about 300 km2,
extending over largely unpopulated and jungle-covered areas, with a total
storage of 3,900 million m3. The design head of the power plant is 50 m.
The powerhouse would be constructed for the ultimate installation of four
75 MW units, although only two units will be installed initially. Minimum
generation based on the driest year of record would be 465 GWh. The plant
is expected to be capable of generating an average of 560 GWh per year.
3.03      The main dam and spillway would be a concrete gravity structure,
72 m high and 457 m long at the crest. A surface powerhouse at the dam's
right toe, with four penstocks, would cover about half the width of the
river bed. Vertical Francis turbine-generators would be connected to step-
up transformers at the powerhouse and to a 230 kV switching station on the
right bank. The Viejo Pedro Dam, filling a saddle about 10 km northeast
of the main dam, would be a rockfill embankment 21 m high and 850 m long.
Material for the Project's main civil works would be cement produced in
Panama and sand, gravel, boulder and clay available in nearby river
deposits.



- 7 -
3.04      The power from the Bayano plant would be transmitted to Panama
City by an 80 km 230 kV double circuit steel tower transmission line along
a route paralleling the Interamerican highway.
3.05      Reliable records of stream flow for the Bayano River are availa-
ble for the past ten years, only. But flow and rainfall records of the past
30 years exist for adjacent catchments. This combined information gives a
satisfactory basis for the design of the Project. The storage capacity of
the reservoir is 75% of the average annual river flow and provides more
than annual regulation. The spillway capacity of 4,300 m3/sec is adequate.
3.06      Geological investigations of the dam sites were based on the re-
sults of preliminary geological studies in 1963 by Mr. Robert H. Stewart,
Geological Advisor for the Canal Zone. Extensive further examinations were
carried out in 1967 by EPTISA in consultation with Sociedad de Reconocimien-
tos Geofisicos of Spain. The design of the Project by EPTISA is based on
the data obtained from these geological investigations.
3.07      The major portion of the Bayano Valley is an undeveloped Indian
reservation. Approximately 450 Indians occupying about 60 houses will have
to be resettled on the northeast bank of the lake. The Bayano Project cost
estimate includes the cost of compensation and relocation.
3.08      The 40 MW Las Minas No. 4 unit near Colon would be similar to
units Nos. 2 and 3 and would work under the same operating conditions i.e.,
sea water cooling from Las Minas Bay, Bunker C fuel oil from the nearby
refinery; boiler pressure and temperature would be 90 kg/cm2 and 5000C
(1280/lb/sq in. 9320 F). A 55 km 115 kV double circuit transmission line
would be built to Panama City; its route would be near the existing line,
along the trans-isthmus highway from Colon to Panama City. Four MW of the
additional diesel capacity, including step-up facilities, would be install-
ed near Aguadulce in the Central Provinces and 2 MW of new diesel capacity
in Panama West.
3.09      In order to ensure the future orderly development of the power
sector IRHE will have to engage consultants to make a study of the alter-
nate programs of system development to meet forecast demand and to recom-
mend the optimum program to be followed after the completion of the Project,
and satisfactory undertakings have been obtained from IRHE to this effect.
Estimated Cost
3.10      A detailed breakdown of the estimated cost of the Project is
given in Annex 3. A summary of the estimated costs of the Project's main
features (excluding interest during construction) is as follows:



-8-
Millions of US$ or B
Local    Foreign      Total
1.  Bayano Development
(a)  Civil works                                  7.5      12.6        20.1
(b)  Compensation to landowners                    .2        -            .2
(c)  Electrical and mechanical works               .5      10.1        10.6
(d)  230 kV line and Panama City Substation    .7            3.0         3.7
(e)  Engineering                                   .9       2.1          3.0
Subtotal                               9.8       27.8        37.6
2.  Las Minas Unit No. 4                              1.5        4.6         6.1
3.  Las Minas-Panama City Transmission line            .2         .7          .9
4.  Diesel and substation, Central Provinces and
Panama West   .2          .7          .9
5.  Engineering                                        .2         .6        _ .8
Subtotal                               2.]        6.6         8.7
6.  Distribution Expansion                            1.6        2.4         4.0
7.  Studies for future power development               .1         .2          .3
8.  Management Consultants and Training                .3         .4          .7
9.  Contingencies                                     1.1        2.2         3.3
10.  Price escalation                                  1.3        2.4         3.7
Total Cost of the Project             16.3       42.0        58.3
3.11      The estimate for Bayano is based upon present construction costs
in Panama adjusted for the size and location of the development. An allow-
ance has been made for price increases during 1971-1974 at an average
annual rate of 3%, which is based on price experience during the 1960's,
to take account of possible increases in local labor and imported machinery
and equipment costs. An allowance for contingencies has been made at rates
of approximately 10% for civil works and 5% for machinery, which is adequate
for the type of facilities involved. Costs for Las Minas Unit No. 4 ($165
per kW) and the costs for the 115 kV transmission line ($19,000 per km) from
Las Minas to Panama City and the diesel units are estimated on the basis of
similar recent construction in Panama. The above estimates do not include
duties on imported materials since IRHE is exempt from such duties.
Engineering
3.12      The Bayano scheme was first investigated in 1957.  In 1963, a
complete feasibility study for the Panamanian Government, financed by AID,
was made by the International Engineering Company. This studv was revised
by Harza Engineering in 1965. The following year the Government appointed



EPTISA as consultants for the design and supervision of construction of
Bayano. A complete project design, including contract documents, was sub-
mitted to the Government in late 1968. EPTISA's performance on the project
to date has been satisfactory and it should be competent to supervise the
construction of the Bayano Project. IRHE is presently engaging consulting
engineers for Las Minas No. 4 and the 115 kV Las Minas-Panama transmission
line. The design for the extension of the distribution and low voltage
transmission systems is being done by IRHE itself, which is acceptable.
IRIIE agreed during negotiations to continue to employ consultants acceptable
to the Bank for the Project.
Construction
3.13      Before work can commence at the Bayano site, it would be necessary
for the 40 km portion of the Interamerican Highway from the town of Chepo
to the dam site to be brought to a stage at which it could be used for the
transport of equipment and materials. The Government has agreed to expedite
this work and has submitted satisfactory evidence that the work will be
completed on time.
3.14      Construction of the Bayano development will require 4-1/2 to 5 years.
This estimate takes into account the major influence of weather conditions,
specially heavy rains, on the progress of civil works. Since work will not
be started before the second half of 1970, the completion date is set for
the first half of 1975.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.15      The equipment and civil works to be financed by the Bank loan
would be procured after international competitive bidding. IRHE does not
intend to call for bids until the financing is assured. Disbursements from
the proposed loan would be made only for the foreign exchange cost of equip-
ment, materials, services and erection and civil works contracts. Expendi-
ture prior to signing of the loan would not be eligible for reimbursement.
Should it appear that the Project will be completed for less than estimated
costs, any undisbursed amount of the loan would be cancelled, unless the
need for additional related investment arises.



- 10 -
4. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJI.CT
The Power Market
4.01      IRHE's principal power market is the Panama City-Colon Metropo-
litan System where it sells power in bulk to CPFI, and the Panama Canal
Company. IRHE also furnishes retail supply in Panama West and the Central
Provinces. These latter areas will be interconnected by transmission lines
to the Metropolitan System after the Bayano plant comes into service in
1975.
4.02      IRHE's largest customer in 1975 will be CPFL.  At that time
CPFL will be purchasing about 85% of IRHE's energv sales.  The table below
shows the distribution of CPFL's sales in 1968 among its variotus categories
of customers.
Sales in      Percentage      Average price
million        of total       per kWh sold
Category                   of kWh          sales         in US cents
Residential                  134.1          34.7             4.32
Commercial                   150.0          38.7             3.11
Industrial                    59.9          15.5            2.42
Street Lighting                4.6           1.2             8.35
Municipal & Government        35.0           9.0             2.01
Miscellaneous                  3.4           0.9             2.04
Total                   387.0         100.0            3.41
4.03      During the past 19 years, CPFL's annual system sales growth has
varied from 7% to 15%, with an overall average of 10%.  During the past
three years (1967-69) the average annual growth rate has increased to 14%.
On the basis of CPFL's past experience and an assessment of future trends,
the Metropolitan System is forecast by IRHE and the consultants to have
an annual average growth in sales of 11.2% through 1976. This forecast is
conservative in view of growth rates in power demand during recent years
but is close to the long term average experienced during the past 20 years.
The proposed power expansion program is tailored to fit this projected
increase in demand. The resulting power and energy demand is shown in
Annex 4. As will be seen from this Annex, the system would lack firm ca-
pacity (i.e., sufficient available generating plant when one large unit
is out of service for routine maintenance) from 1969 through 1974. But
this situation would be manageable by utilizing the Canal Zone's plants
in emergencies. These plants would normally be on stand-by or used for



- 11 -
peaking purposes only to obtain the lowest system generating cost. Annex
5 shows the relationshlip between the maximum demand and installed plant
capacity for the Metropolitan System, the Central Provinces and Panama
West through 1980.
Comarison of Alternatives
4.04      Alternative plant programs for meeting the forecast demand for
the Metropolitan System, with or without Bayano, have been investigated
with the object of minimizing capital, fuel and operating costs for the
system. There are no other known hydro resources of comparable magnitude
close enough to the main load center which could be built before Bayano,
hence the alternative to the expansion of the system by the proposed Bayano
hvdro development would be thermal power.
4.05      IRHE's consultants, Stone and Webster and the Bank carried out
comparisons between hydro-thermal programs including Bayano, and all-thermal
developments, by discounting the cost streams over a period of 60 years.
These analyses showed that the hydro-thermal development would be more
economic than the all-thermal program for discount rates of less than 16%,
and that 75 MW was the most economic unit size. The computations demons-
trated also that an increase of 10% in the capital costs of the Bayano
development would reduce by about 2.5% the discount rate for which the two
programs would be equal. The cost assumptions used in these comparisons are
shown in Annex 6.
4.06      The addition of 6 MW of diesel generation to the Central Provinces
and Panama West is the lowest cost solution at present load levels. In 1975
when demand will have increased, IRHE intends to connect these areas to the
Metropolitan System by transmission lines.



- 12 -
5. THE BORROWER
Legis lation
5.01      As explained in paragraph 1.02, IRIIE is in the process of chang-
ing from a small undertaking mainly concenied with rural electrification,
into the authority responsible for the construction of all future generat-
ing plants in the Republic of Panama. The Government originally created
IRHE as an autonomous state-owned agency by Law No. 37 of Januarv 31, 1961,
but this law did not provide IRHE with the autonomy it required to manage
itself and control its own budget. There was excessive political pressure
exerted by the Government; the Director General was a Presidential appoin-
tee and his term of office coincided with that of the President. The Board
of Directors had powers to interfere in the daily operations of the entity
and did so. All expenditures were subject to the approval of the Comp-
troller General of the Nation. As a result of the poor experience with
Law 37, IRHE commissioned its consultants, Stone and Webster, to review
its management and organization and to recommend changes in Law 37 which
would give IRHE the autonomy it would need to operate as an efficient
electric utility enterprise. The consultant's report and subsequent
discussions between the Bank, IRHE and the Government, led to Decree 235
being passed on July 30, 1969 to replace Law 37. The new decree (see
Annex 2) provides a satisfactory basis upon which IRHE can operate as an
autonomous entity.
Organization and Manaement
5.02      The present Director General is a capable and experienced engineer
and suitable for his present appointment. He was formerly sub-Director
General and Chief of the Planning Department, and was appointed late in
1968 following the military coup and the dismissal of the previous Director
General. Assurances have been received that the Government of Panama will
consult with the Bank prior to any new appointment to the position of
Director General.
5.03      Due to lack of experienced personnel in Panama, and to past
mismanagement, IRHE is short of suitable staff in the higher echelons.
In the lQwer levels, however, there has been over-staffing. It is dif-
ficult to dismiss redundant staff, but IRHE intends to keep to a minimum
the hiring of new staff and to reassign existing staff as the organiza-
tion expands. This approach is reasonable, and should result in excess
staff being usefully absorbed by the time the Project is completed.
5.04      IRHE has had a contract for management consultant services with
Stone and Webster since December 1965. This contract expires February 28
1970. Prior to 1968, IRHE appeared to resist advice and little progress
was made. Recently, there has been more cooperation with the consultants;
however, further improvements in organization and management, particularly
with regard to planning system expansion and accounting, are necessary.
The continued employment, at least during 1970-71, of management consul-
tants is necessary and an agreed contract, which is acceptable to the Bank,
has been drawn up between IRHE and Stone and Webster.



- 13 -
5.05      Training in IRHE has been meager in the past.  Training programs,
acceptable to the Bank, should be established jointly by IR}IE and consul-
tants during the construction period for the future successful operation
of the Project. An amount has been included in the proposed loan for
this purpose. Suitable undertakings have been obtained to insure that IRHE
will utilize consultants for this purpose.
5.06      TRUE's past problems of management and staffing can be rectified
by the measures suggested above. Meanwhile the execution of the Project
slhould not be affected by IRHE's present institutional weaknesses. The
Bavano D)evelopment has been designed by consultants who will also be
responsible for supervising the construction. The steam plants will,
as in the past, be built bv contractors and suppliers of equipment and
IRHE will continue to design and construct the distribution facilities.
It is IRHE's intention to invite international tenders for the construction
of the Project. Thus, no unusual problems in carrying out the Project are
expected since the consultants and contractors involved would be well ex-
perienced in their tasks. The principal problem confronting IRHE in future
will be in operating the plants and transmission and distribution systems
after they go into service. There is adequate time for the consultants
and IRHE to establish the training programs needed to improve IRHE's
operational capabilities.
Accounting and Audit
5.07      The remodeling of IRHE's accounting system to conform with the
U.S. Federal Power Commission's uniform system of accounts has been sub-
stantially completed by Stone and Webster and has considerably improved
the system. However, further work has to be done on the procedures and
programming problems arising from the use of the computer, owned by the
University of Panama, on which IRHE hires time. The University changed
from an IBM to an NCR computer in the fall of 1968, which caused addi-
tional programming problems, delays and other difficulties with billings
and year-end accounting. The recently appointed chief of the accounts
and supply department, an engineer by qualification and background,
functions as Chief Financial Officer. In view of his comparatively limited
accounting experience, IRHE has agreed to review, prior to December 31, 1970,
its accounting service, in conjunction with its management consultants, its
external auditors and the Bank, and, unless the services are being carried
out in accordance with sound accounting methods and practices, to appoint
a qualified and experienced Chief Accountant acceptable to the Bank. IRHE's
accounts have been audited by Arauz, Hermida and Pazmino, a local firm of
accountants associated with the New York firm of Deloitte, Plender, Haskins
and Sells. The auditors are acceptable to the Bank, and assurances have
been received that IRHE will continue to employ independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and will forward certified copies of the annual
financial statements to the Bank within four months of the end of each
financial year, together with the auditors' detailed reports.
5.08      Insurance is carried against losses arising from civil liability,
motor vehicle claims and fire (plants, stores and buildings). A contract
for insuring losses resulting from machinery breakdown, boiler explosion,



- 14 -
fire, and subsequent loss of profits has recently been signed. During
negotiations assurances were received that IRHE will continue to maintain
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with sound public utilities and business practices.
Past Operating Results and Financing
5.09      Annex 7 shows income statements for the four years 1965 through
1968. Prior to 1969, IRHE was a small poorly-run organization without
sufficient sales or revenues to make it viable which operated at a loss in
1965 through 1968, when a small Government subsidv is excluded. Since one
of the major objectives of the proposed loan is to help change this situa-
tion, the poor performance outlined below should not serve as a basis for
judging future financial performance. Operating expenses, excluding de-
preciation, absorbed 94-95% of revenue for the years 1965 through 1967.
During 1968 gross operating revenues were about 2% less than those estimat-
ed in 1961 at the time of the appraisal of La Yeguada, and operating costs,
excluding depreciation, were about 90% greater than estimated. Net operat-
ing income, which was positive only after including a small Government
operating subsidy, was, as a result, equivalent to less than 1% on net fixed
assets in operation for 1968 and IRHE did not meet its commitment under
loan 322-PAN to earn a return from January 1, 1968, of at least 7% on
its net fixed assets in operation. IRHE will only start to earn a satis-
factory rate of return in 1972 when its second 40 MW steam plant at Las
Minas (No. 3 unit) comes into full operation. From then onwards, the fi-
nancial situation of IRHE should show an improvement as it changes from a
rural power company to the main source of generation in the Republic.
5.10      IRHE has accordingly been unable to make more than a token contri-
bution from internally generated funds to its capital expansion program, and
its contribution will continue to be small for some time. Almost all local
funds for investment have come from Government contributions. The high debt
service resulting from the use of medium-term suppliers' credits reduced
still further the amount available for re-investment. During 1968 debt
service was covered only 1.2 times by net revenue, before depreciation.
5.11      Although the valuation of IRHE's assets is considered satisfactory
and its rates of depreciation adequate, as a matter of routine IRBE agreed
during negotiations to keep its assets properly valued and to maintain
adequate rates of depreciation.
Present Financial Position
5.12      IRHE's recent balance sheets (Annex 8) reflect its poor operating
results and show a deterioration in its financial position. This state of
affairs has been aggravated by receivables for the supply of electricity
increasing over the years. IRHE is making a determined effort to collect
the arrears, some of which have been outstanding since 1961, and about
$150,000 out of $231,000 which are over 91 days, are considered to be
irrecoverable.



- 15 -
5.13      IRHE's fixed assets, which have increased from B 5.1 million in
1965 to B 16.5 million in 1968, have been increased by a loan from the
IBRD, suppliers' credits and Government contributions. Internal cash gene-
ration has been negligible. As of December 31, 1968, IRHE's equity of
B 8.8 million consisted of the original capital of B 1.1 million and Gov-
ernment contributions of B 7.8 million less a cumulative deficit on in-
come account of B 0.1 million. The suppliers' credits are from Gruppo
Industrie Elettro Meccaniche per Impianti all'Estero, S.p,A. (GIE) which
supplied the Las Minas Nos. 2 and 3 steam generating units of 40 MW. The
GIE credit for Unit No. 2 bears interest at 6% per annum and will be fully
amortized in October 1979. The 6% credit for $4,830,000 for Las Minas
No. 3 (40 MW) was signed in July 1969 and is to be fully amortized in
July 1981. IRHE also has a small balance of bonded debt, issued in 1967
and to be fully repaid in December 1972. As required by Loan 322!-PAN,
IRHE has sought and obtained Bank approval for all these loans.
5.14      In order to assist putting IRHE on a firm financial footing, it
was agreed during negotiations that IRHE will, if necessary, be lermitted
to use Government contributions as working capital and that the Government
contributions will be defined as equity, upon which no cash distributions
will be made by way of dividend payments or otherwise.



- 16 -
6.  FINANCING PLAN AND FINANCIAL PROSPECTS
Proposed financing_Plan
6.01      IRHE's future financing plan is similar in broad outline to the
past in its heavy reliance on debt financing and Government contributions
and only vinimal contributions from internal cash generation, given the
existing bigh debt service burden. However, the poor performance of the
past need not be repeated if the new and revised legislation in the elec-
tric power sector is properly applied. The plan relies heavily on IRHE
earning the permitted rate of return and on Government contributions.
IRHE is unable in this period to generate sufficient funds of its own for
its large expansion program. The forecast of sources and applications of
funds 1969 through 1976 presented in Annex 9 reflect, in addition to the
income assumptions outlined in Annex 7, a Government commitment to make a
capital contribution of not less than $20 million or more than $30 million
over the seven years 1970 through 1976. While this appears to be adequate
in amount, the Government agreed during negotiations, to contribute, on terms
satisfactory to the Bank, any sums over and above the US$30 million limit
if needed to complete the Project.
6.02      The financing for the six years 1970 through 1975 can be summar-
ized as follows:
1970-75
Thousands       Percentage
of Bs & $s       of Total
Financial Requirements
Construction expenditure
Proposed IBRD Project -
Foreign currency                 42,000                           50.9
Local currency                   16,275                           19.7
58,275          70.6
Other Expenditure
Foreign currency                 16,983                           20.6
Local currency                    6,071                            7.4
23,054          28.0
Increase in working capital                               1,179            1.4
Total Requirements                       82,508         100.0
Sources



- 17 -
1970-75
Thousands      Percentage
of Bs & $s     of Total
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                25,985                          31.5
Less:  Debt Service                     23_368                          28.3
2,617           3.2
Operating Subsidy                                        5,659           6.9
Sale of assets                                               99           -
Borrowings:
Proposed Bank Loan                 42,000                          50.9
Existing Suppliers' Credits         4,830                           5.9
Future foreign loan                 8,103                           9.8
54,933          66.6
Government capital contribution                         19,200          23.3
Total Sources                           82 508         100.0
Most of the expenditure planned in these six years is for the proposed
Project. The "other" expenditure of $23 million in the period consists
mainly of other generation facilities in the program, including Las Minas
No. 3, part of the third 75 MW unit for Bayano and part of the next gene-
rating facility to be started after Bayano. IRHE expects this expenditure
will be financed to the extent of about 55% by suppliers' credits and other
foreign loans.
6.03      The net internal cash generation is low; it provides only about
3% of IRHE's requirements.  But such a low contribution is not surprising
considering that assets will be increasing over 5 times during the period.
As noted earlier, one of the premises of IRHE's financing plan is that
CPFL, its principal customer, will be permitted under the Electricity
legislation to earn an 8-3/4% rate of return. To do this, CPFL may well
have to increase its tariffs to the general public in Panama City and Colon.
The Government has agreed to cause the Regulatory Commission to grant changes
to the private companies and to IRHE promptly when required, to enable them
all to earn thie return allowed by Decree Law No. 31 (8-3/4% on net fixed
assets in operation and working capital of three month's gross revenue). At
the same time the Bank agreed to include the Government operating subsidy
when calculating the rate of return for 1970 (Loan 322-PAN requires a rate
of return on net fixed assets in operation of at least 7%). The subsidy will
be excluded in 1971. It would be unreasonable to expect the full return
of 8-3/4% before 1972 when Las Minas No. 3 will be in service. IRHE has
further agreed that until the 8-3/4% return is achieved, no tariffs would
be reduced without Bank approval.



- 18 -
Estimated Future Operating Results
6.04      Annex 7 shows forecast income statements for the years 1969
through 1976. This annex is based upon the following main assumptions:
(i) IRHE's future tariffs will be set to allow it to earn 8-3/4% on net
fixed assets and working capital from 1972 onward, as provided by Law 31,
and (ii) the Government will pay IRHE the subsidy of US$ 100,000 per month
specified in Decree Law No. 235, out of which IRHE will be required to pay
for hydrological studies which it carries out for the Government.
6.05      In 1970 interest chargeable to operation would be covered only
1.6 times by net operating income (without subsidy), but from 1971 through
1976 the coverage is estimated to vary between 2.6 and 1.9 times, (Annex
10). Compared with past results, this is satisfactory. The coverage of
total debt service, however, is poor, mainly due to the heavy use of
suppliers' credits by IRHE for past expansion. Debt service during the
six years 1970 through 1975 would be covered by internal cash generation
between 1.0 and 1.3 times, excluding the Government subsidy, and between
1.2 and 1.6 times, including the subsidy, after payment for hydrological
studies. But there is no alternative, since IRHE is a relatively new
entity. During negotiations, IRHE agreed to a debt limitation test
similar to that provided under Loan 322-PAN, which recuires future debt
service to be covered at least 1.4 times by current cash generation, to
ensure that IRHE does not borrow without Bank permission until it is a
more financially mature undertaking.
6.06      Forecast Balance Sheets for the years 1969 through 1976 are
shown in Annex 11. It is estimated that IRHE's total net fixed assets
in operation would increase from $17 million in 1969 to $91 million in
1976. The balance sheets show a satisfactory position, with a debt/
ecuity ratio of about 55/45. While it should be the ultimate aim of
IRHE to pay interest or dividends on Government contributions, the fi-
nancing plan is too tight to allow for such payment in the foreseeable
future, and assurances have been obtained that, unless otherwise agreed
with the Bank, no interest or dividends would be paid on the Government
capital contributions.



- 19 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  from the Government that:
(i)  It will amend the Electricity Legislation before
the proposed loan is made effective (paragraph 2.11);
(ii)  It will not make material changes to the Electricity
Legislation (after amendment), without prior approval
of the Bank (paragraph 2.12);
(iii) It will consult the Bank prior to making any change to
tihe post of Director General of IRHE (paragrah 5.02);
(iv)  It will permit if necessary, its contributions to be
used for Working Capital (paragraph 5.14), provide
funds to complete the Project over and above its
commitment under Decree Law 235 should that be
necessary (paragraph 6.01), and treat all contributions
as dividend and interest free capital (paragrapsh 5.14
and 6.06);
(v)  It will cause the Regulatory Commission to grant tariff
changes promptly when required to the private and public
electric entities so as to enable them to earn the rate
of return specified in Law 31 (paragraph 6.03);
(b)  From IRHE that:
(i)  It will employ consultants and auditors
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraphs 3.09,
3.12, 5.05 and 5.07);
(ii)  Continue to carry adequate insurance (paragraph
5.08), and continue to value its assets on a proper
basis and use adequate depreciation rates (paragraph
5.11)
(iii) Not reduce tariffs unless the Bank agrees otherwise
(paragraph 2.13 and 6.03);
(iv)  Observe a debt limitation similar to that imposed
bv Loan 322-PAN (paragraph 6.05).
February 19, 1970






PANAMA
INSTITUTC DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
IRIE, CPFL, ENPRESA HIDROELFCTRICA, CHORRERA, FMPRESA ELECTRICA SANTIAGO AND CANAL 70NE
INSTALLED CAPACITY AND GENERATING CAPABILITY
1/    Year       Capability
INSTALLED CAPACITY                           Location7      Installed    MW             1969      1970       1971       1972       1973      1974       1975       1976
Capability GWh Generated (net)
IRHE
Las Minas No. 2, 1 x 40, steam                  MA             1969       40            143        262        262        260        260        260       260        260
Las Minas No. 3, 1 x 40, steam                  MA             1971       40                                   66        260        260       260        260        260
Las Minas No. 4, 1 x 40, steam                  MA             1973       40                                                        100        260       260        260
Bayano No. 1 and 2, 2 x 75, hydro               MA             1975      150                                                                              280       560
La Yeguada No. 1/3 2 x 3, 1 x 1, hydro           CP            1967/71    7                                                                                17_/      34
Central Provinces diesel (standby)              CP                         7                                                                                 2/       1
Panama West diesel (standby)                    pW                         3                                                                                1__/       1
Total Capability                                                                                         328        52        6 720 0                      1,07
Compania Panamena de Fuerza y Lu7
Ave. Sur 1 x 1.0         steam                  MA             1917        0.95          -           -         -          -          -          -
.      3 x 2.5      "                     MA             1937        8.6          40          35         35         25        15         30         25         -
II tI 1 x 7.5                                  MA             1958        7.0           50         50         50         35         30         50         45        49
San Francisco 2 x 6                             MA             1949/53   12.4            75         75         75         60         60         60        60         65
IT     1 x 11.5   T                      MA             1960       12.2          80          80         80         80        80         80         80         80
1 x 14 gas turbine                MA            1964       12.8           30          30         30        25         25         30         30         30
Colon                     steam                 MA             1931        5.25          10           5         5          -          -          -          -          -
Las Minas 2 x 1 diesel                          MA               -         1.8            -           -          -         -          -          -          -          -
Las Minas No. 1 1 x 24 steam                    MA             1966       29.00         165         165       165        165        160        165        165       165
Total Capability                                                     Uh.00        470         Z0-        77-       370         370-      7I         M7         -Ey
Empresa Hidroelectrica Chorrera                 PW                         2                                                                                52         5
Empresa Electrica       Santiago                CF                         - E
Canal Zone
Madden 3 x 8 hydro                               MA             1934      22.5          185         185        185        185       185        185        185        185
Gatun        hydro                               MA               -       2L             64          64         64        64         64         64         64         64
Cocoli - Aguaclara 2 x 7 diesel                 MA                -       14              5           5          5         5          5          5          5          5
Miraflores 2 x 10 gas turbines                  MA              1963      20             55          55         55        55         55         55         55         55
It     1 x 25 steam                         MA             1966       25            185        185        180        180        180       180        180        180
"(Army) 1 x 33 steam                        MA             1971       33                                   65        230        230        230       230        230
Army floating plants                             MA               -       29.5           96          96         96        96         96         96         96         96
Total Capability                                                    _160            590        __0        ___        717        -i7        17         T1        TiT
1/ MA: Metropolitan Area; CP: Central Provinces; PW: Panama West
2/ After interconnection with Metropolitan System
January 1970






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3 pages
LEGISLATION
A. DECREE LAW NO. 31 OF SEPTEMBER 27, 1958
Decree Law No. 31 lays down the standards for the control of
generation and distribution of electricity over 50 kilowatts in Panama,
and requires undertakings engaged in the industry to obtain a concession.
All future generation is to be undertaken by IRHE. A concessionaire whose
contract comprises distribution services, will be compelled to supply
annually up to 1.1 times the amount of power supplied the previous year
for public service.
The National Commission of Electricity, Gas and Telephones has
the right to determine the value of the assets within certain rules and
with certain rights of appeal. Concessionaires are entitled to a rate of
return on net fixed assets and working capital of three months' gross
revenue, varying with their capital structure and annual sales, as follows:
Percentage of capital                    Sales in kWh
in bonds, preferred         over        15,000,001         over
stocks and loans        25,000,000    -25,000,000    15,000,001
15% or less              9-1/2%           10%          10-1/2%
15.1% to 30%             9-1/4%         9-3/4%         10-1/42
30.1% to 50%               9%           9-1/2%            10%
over 50%                 8-3/4%         9-1/4%          9-3/4%
Capital should not be more than 60% in bonds nor more than 62%
among bonds, preferred stocks or loans. Depreciation is allowed as an
expense but rates are undetermined other than "not exceeding as a whole,
that indicated by the normal operation of the industry of electricity for
companies similar in size and type of generation."
The difference between the actual and permitted amounts of return
will be registered in a stabilization account and carried forward. This
procedure effectively guarantees the return.
The law lays down the following timetable to be followed by con-
cessionaires and the commission.
(a) Accounts and financial and technical data are to be furnished
by the concessionaire within 90 days of the end of the fis-
cal year.
(b) The commission should, if necessary, contest such accounts
and information within 120 days of presentation.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
(c) An adjustment in the price per kilowatt hour shall be deter-
mined by the debit or credit in the stabilization account
and applied to sales from the first day of the third month
following the end of each fiscal year.
(d) The commission must give its decision on a tariff revision
within 60 days (90 days if complex) of receipt of the
request. The decision can be appealed to the commission
for reconsideration within 15 days of it being communicated
to the concessionaire and the appeal must be decided within
30 days.
A concessionaire is required to invest in the enlargement of
his services, increase the working capital or both, an amount equivalent
to at least 25% of the net gains which are available to common stockholders
as dividend, plus the amount allocated during the last year to reserve for
depreciation, after making the necessary reimbursements for the amortiza-
tion of bonds and other capitals.
B. DECREE LAW NO. 235 OF JULY 30, 1969
Decree Law No. 235 charges IRHE with planning, expanding, diver-
sifying and rationalizing the generation, transmission and distribution
of electric power throughout the Republic, with the exclusive competence
to construct and operate all new sources of generation, with certain tran-
sitory exclusions. Functions relative to irrigation, flood control and
maintenance of river navigation, which were previously assigned the IRHE
have now been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade and
Industry. IRHE is exempt from all taxation, other than Social Security
taxes.
The law provides for a Board of Directors consisting of seven
members appointed by the President of the Republic with the approval of
the National Assembly. Four members are ex-officio: the Director General
of Planning and Administration of the Office of the President of the
Republic; one representative each from the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Ministry of Commerce; and an electrical engineer who is a member of
the National Commission of Electric Energy, Gas and Telephones. These
members hold office so long as they are employees or officials of the
respective ministries or state agencies. The other three members are
appointed for a period of seven years and are eligible for re-appointment,
the terms are staggered so that not more than one of these three directors
retires at the same time. One represents the Banking Association; another,
the Federation of Industrialists; and the third is a Civil Engineer, who
must be a member of the Panamanian Society of Engineers and Architects.
The Comptroller General of the Republic, or his representative, may attend
Board meetings with the right to speak but not to vote. The Chairman and
Vice-Chairman are elected by the Board. The Board controls the broad
policy of IRHE, and authorizes, inter alia, salary scales, expenditures
over $25,000, and electricity tariffs.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
The Director General, who is the legal representative of IRHE
and its Chief Executive Officer, is appointed by the President of the
Republic, subject to the approval of the National Assembly. His term of
office is for a period of six years, with eligibility for re-election.
He may be dismissed from his post only by a court judgment because of an
offense or because of failure to comply with certain requirements speci-
fied in the Decree, or he can be dismissed for manifest incapacity by the
Executive with full cabinet approval.
The Director General is responsible to the Board for the day to
day operation of IRHE under the broad policy of the Board. He has the
right to attend Board meetings and to propose motions and to speak, but
not to vote. He appoints and dismisses subordinate personnel, submits for
approval budgets, investment plans, tariffs, etc., and authorizes expendi-
ture of amounts of less than $25,000.
Decree Law No. 235 provides IRHE with the following financial
contribution from the Government:
(1) "A State subsidy of B 100,000 a month, which shall be
delivered to the Institute by the Office of the Comptroller-
General of the Republic or the Ministry of Pinance and the
Treasury, from funds of the National Treasury, within the
first five days of each month. The necessary appropriations
to comply with this provision shall be included in all
national budgets with effect from the year 1970. This sub-
sidy shall diminish by B 120,000 a year with effect from
1980."
(2) "An additional capital in cash, contributed by the Nation
for purposes of investment, in accordance with the National
Electrification Plan, of not less than B 20,000,000 or
more than B 30,000,000, which shall be delivered to the
Institute within the next seven years, in such annual con-
tributions as shall be required for the National Electri-
fication Plan."






ANNEX 3
PANAMA
INSTITITO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
Estimated Cost of the Project
1970 price level            US$000 or B 000
Local     Foreign       Total
Bayano Hydro Development
Comperisation to landowners                          200                     200
Preliminary works                                    474         643       1,117
River diversion                                      473      1,065        1,538
Bayano dam                                         4,618      8,216       12,834
Viejo Pedro dam                                      717        843        1,560
Power house and step up station (civil)            1,242      1,839        3,081
T'urbines, generators, transformers                   62      5,396        5,458
Other mechanical equipment                           410      4,009        4,419
Other electrical equipment                            36         673         709
230 kV transmission line                             379      1,282        1,661
Panama Substation                                    308      1,669        1,977
Engineering                                          890      2,120        3,010
Subtotal                                9,809      27,755       37,564
Las Mirias No. 4                                      1,529       4,588       6,117
Transmission line Las Minas-Panama City                 234         701          935
Diesel & substation, Central Provinces
and Panama West                187         748          935
Engineering                                             170         556          726
Subtotal                                   2,120       6,593        8,713
Distribution expansion                                1,665       2,457       4,122
Studies for further power development                    52         200          252
Management consultant and training                      293         380          673
Contingencies                                         1,040       2,195       3,235
Price escalation                                      1,296       2,42O        3,716
Total Cost of the Project                         16,275     42,ofO       58,275
Total- foreign exchange to be financed by Bank                   42,000
February 1970



ANNEX 4
PANAMA
INSTITUI- DE RECURSOS HIDRAULIOOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
DEMAND AND CAPABILITY - METROPOLITAN AREA, CENTRAL PROVINCES, PANAMA WEST AND CANAL ZONE
Metropolitan Area, Central Provinces and                 1969      1970       1971      1972       1973       1974      1975       1976
Panama West
1)   Power Demand
CPFL                                       MW        96        108        121       137        151       168        190        211
Central Provinces incl. E.E Santiago /    "                                                                          13         14.5
Panama West incl. E.H. Chorrera.2/          "                                                                         4          4,5
Subtotal                               it       9         108       121        137       151        1          207       230
IRHE to Canal                               "        0      3    0          0        30          0        30         30         30
Total                                  "                  12                  1I1       1318                   237 2
2)   Power Capability
CPF71/                                      "        84         84        84         84         84        84         78         78
E.H. Chorrera./ 2/                          "                                                                         2          2
Subtotal                                                    l' 1                                                           0 8   8   o   8
IRHE1/                                      "        40         40        80         80        120       120        287        287
Total                                                    3124 
3)   Surplus or (Deficit)                        "         (2)      (14)        13         (3)       23          6       130        107
Surplus or (Deficit) with largest unit out"          (42)      (54)       (27)      (43)       (17)      (34)        55         32
4)   Energy Requirements
CPFL                                       GWh      500        560       620        700        780       870        970     1,070
Central Provinces incl.E.E.Sant ggocv       "                                                                        51         58
Panama West incl. E.H. Chorrera-            "                                                                        13         19
Subtotal                               "       50       70         720         70 0      780        770     1,036      1,137
IRHE to Canal                               "        88        210       210        210        210       210        210        210
Total                         '                          770       *7          910       990  1, 080        1,244 1,357
5)   EnerFr Capability
CPFL-'                                      "       450        440       440        390        370       415        405       389
E.H. Chorrera   2/                                                                                                    5          5
Subtotal                               "       450        m                     90       3                               394
IRHE 1/                                     ,       143        262       328        520        620       780      1,079     1,376
Total                                  ,       593       702      -76          910       990      1,195     1,489      1,770
6)   Energy Reserve                              "          5       (68)       (62)        0          0        115       245        413
Canal Zone
7)   Power Demand                                MW      102        112        119       129        138       143        148        152
Power purchase from IRHE                    "        30         30        30         30         30        30         30         30
Own power generation                        "        72         82         89        99        108       113        118        122
8)   Power Reservel/                             "         63        53         79        69         60         55        5°         46
Power Reserve firm                          "        38         28         46        36         27        22         17         13
9)   Energy Requirernents                       GWn      655        713        768       839        899       937        972      1,000
Energy purchase from IRHE                   "        88        210       210        210       210        210        210       210
Own energy generation                      if       567        503       558        629        689       727        762        790
10)   Energy Reservel/                           GWh        23        87         92       186        126         88        53         25
IRHE Energy (KWH) Requirerents
11)   Capability1/                               GWh      143        262        328       520        620       780      1,079     1,376
12)   Requirements                                "        138       330        390       520        620        780     1,079      1,192
13)   IRHE dispatch
IRHE dispatch wholesale metrop.area        2/"      138        262       328        520       620        780      1,015     1,115
IRHE dispatch wholesale Chorrera/Santiago-                                                                           16        24
IRHE dispatch own retai2                    "                                                                        48        53
14)   IRHE Reserve                                "          5       (68)       (62)        0          0         0          0        184
1/ Annex 1
2/ After interconnection with Metropolitan area
January 1970



ANNEX 5
PANAMA: INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
METROPOLITAN SYSTEM, INTERCONECTED WITH CENTRAL PROVINCES
AND PANAMA WEST (1975), SYSTEM CAPACITY AND DEMAND
(MEGAWATTS)
400                        I         I        I        I ,               I    400
0
BAYANO NO I and 2 @75 MW
(+ Panama West)      m   367MW
(+ Central Provinces) r
350                                                                           350
I~~~V
I~~~~~~~~~~
INSTALLED C PACITY  I
300                                 .                         -               300
1 292MW
FIRM CAPACITY
250                                                                           250
z
POWER DEMAND
o        4
¢  204MW
200                                                                           200
0
z        r IS
150                   -U                 -                                    150
Z
3         n~~-     124 MW       
z
I100      7-             ,                        , i_100
ctj               84 MW__
rFUEFIZA Y LUZ
Total Installed Capacity    CANAL ZONE CONTRACT 30 mw
CENTRAL PROVINCES AND
PANAMA WEST CONNECTED 17 MW
50                                                                           50
'65  '66  '67  '68  '69  '70  '71 '72 '73  '74  '75 '76  '77  '78 '79  '80
<     ACTUAL  :*                    FORECAST               -
IBRD - 4601 (4R)






ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2 pages
PANAMA
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
DATA USED IN THE ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Capital Cost (excluding interest)                          1000 US$
Bayano  4 x 75 MW                                          41,880
230 kV Line Bayano/Panama                                   1,920
Substation          "                                       2,980
Thermal Plant  4 x 75 MW                                   39,180
230 kV Line Las Minas/Panama                                1,340
Substation          "                                       2,980
Fuel Cost
Steam plant and Gas turbines US$             1.26/million/kcal (0.315/million/BTU)
Operation and Maintenance Cost per year (1975)
Bayano                                            150 MW             300 MW
1000 US$
Dam/Powerhouse                                      480                560
Substatioii                                         140                160
line                                                 80                 80
Thermal Plant                                       800              1,600
Substation                                          140               150
Line                                                  60                60
Assumed Life
Bayano                                                    60 years
Thenral Plant                                             30 years
Average Generation of Bayano                             560 GWH/yr



.AiAMA
IN3TITJTO DE HECURSOS HTIRAULICOS Y ELECTIRIFiACION
DATA USED TN THE EONCMTIC bVALUATIOh
1969      1970       1971       1972       1973       1377       1975      1976       1973       1983       2003       2004       2005       2006       2015       2029
System Maximum Demand (MW)                      1.'6       138        151        167        181       (9'        237        260        286         -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Required Generation   (GWh)                     600        770        830        910        990     1,080      1,244      1,357         -          -          _          _          _          _          _
Hydro Plan
Generating Capacity (MW)
Existing System                                84        124        124        164       164        207.       204        354        354         -          _          _          _          _          _          _
New thermal                                    40         -          4.0        -         40         -          -          -          -          -          _          _          _
New hydro                                      _                     -          -          -          -        150         -          75         75 
Total installed                               124        124        167        164       204        204        354        354        429         -
Capital Costs
Hydro plant    $(000)                          -       1,340      3,980     6,770    10,420       6,850      6,510      2,610      1,100      2,300
Transmission   $(000)                          -          -          -          -        230      1,310        380         -          -          -          _          _          _          _
Substation      $(000)                         _                                         240      1,940        200        200        100        300
Total           $(000)                         -       1,340      3,980      770    10,890    10,100         7,090      2,810      1,20       2,600
Operation & Naint. Costs
Plant, Transmission,
substation  1/ $(000)                          -          -          -          -          -          -        650        700        700        750        800        800        800        800        800        800
Thermal Plan
Generating Capacity (NW)
txisting system                                87        124        127        164       164        204        204        354        354         -                           -          -               -          -
New thermal                                    40         -          40        _           70         -        150         -          75         75
Total  instaaled                              124        127        167        167.       207       204        354        354        729         -
Capital Costs
Thermal Plant $(000)                           -          -          -          -      3,600      7,140      9,540      41,300     7,400      7,200      3,600      7,140      9,540      4,300      7,400
Transmission   $(000)                                -         -                -        160        920         '60                              -          -          -                     -                -
Substation      $(000)                         _     -          -               -         240     1,940        200        200        100        300         -          -          -
Total           $(°°°)                        -         -          -            -      4,00C    10,000    l3,0oo        4,600      7,5.00     7,5CO      3,600      7,140      9,540      4,300      7,400
Operation & Maint. Costs
Plant, Transmission
substation  1/ $(0005                          -          -          -          -          -          -        900      1,000      1,000      1,810      1,810      1,810      1,810      1,810      1,810      1,810
Fuel Cost
Thermal Plan minus Credit                                                                                                                                                                                                      X j
for Hydro Plan $(000)                           -         -          -          -          -          -      1,lOC      2,300      2,000      2,190      2,190      2,190      2,190      2,190      2,190      2,190
I/Annex 6, Page 1
February 1970



PANAMA
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULIOOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
INCOME STATEHEUNS 1965-1976
(THDUSANDS OF BALBDAS)
- - - - - - Actual - - - - - - -             - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Estimated- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -               TOTAL
Years Ended December 31                            1965      1966       1967      1968          1969      1970       1971      1972       1973      1974       1975      1976           1969-1976
Kwh Sales (millions)
Retail                                          114.1      15.4      17.6       20.9          22.5      25.1       28.2      31.1      34.5       38,2       42.3      47.0               268.9
Wholesale - Panama Canal                           -         -          -         -           88.0     210.0      210.0     210.0      210.0     210.0      210.0     210.0             1,558.0
- CPFL                                   -         -         _          -           55.o      52.5      118.0     310.0     410.0      570.0     805.0      905.0            3,225.5
- Other                                  -         -                                 52        7.7        7.9       8.2       6.4        8.7     14.1        20.8                81.0
TOTAL SALES                                        .       -           77 -      170.7                 295.3                  9.3     662.9    82    1,07 1.
Average price per kwh (centeeimos)
Retail                                           7.55      8.00      8.01       8.00          8.17      8.04       7.87      7.76       7.62      7.52       7.43      7.33                7.65
Wholesale - Panama Canal                           -         -          -         -           1.07       0.94      0.95      0.95       0.95      0-95       0.95      0.95                o.96
- CPFL                                   -         -         -          _           1.07      0.9L      1.O       1.09      1.05       1.04      1.10       1.22                1.11
- Other                                            -         -                      2.48      2.49       2.49      2.50      2.51       2.51      2.32       2.23                2.40
TOTAL                                            7,       z5 2                       .05                1.59      _Ti3 1.4                3      -T33        1.33      1.3       4
Gross Operating Revenues
Retail                                          1,065     1,232     1,410      1,672         1,838      2,018     2,218      ,413      2,630     2,872      3,142     3,446              20,577
Wholesale - Panama Canal                           -          -         _         -            940      1,982     1,986      1,988     1,992     1,996      2,000     2,004              14,888
- CPFL                                   -         -         -          _            587       495      1,289     3,390     4,323      5,952     8,883    11,012               35,931
- Other                                  -         -         -          -            129       192        197       205        211       218       327        463               1 942
TOTAL G1DSS OPERATIlW  REVENUES                           1,0065  1,232       1,6772         3           ,7       7,9  96              9,156 iI,09         14,352    16,925                  7
Cost of Operations
Operation and maintenance                         601       736        939       907         1,139      1,244     1,328      1,582     1,852     1,997      2,340     2,705              14,187
Fuel - Las Minas                                   -         -          -         -            537        987     1,233      1,956     2,332     2,934      2,934     2,242              15,155
Fuel and Electricity purchased-other areas        222       238        208       149           191        246       334        329       361        396       401        401              2,659
Administration and General Expenses               169       182        194       282            300       315       331        348       365        384       465        486               2,994
Depreciation                                      178       201        237       411           646        797       963      1,227     1,435     1,924      2,367     2,827              12 186
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                        !T7g      1,357      i777      1,749         2,813          9     14,189     5,4                  t ,       T ,7     t8t                 17
NET OPERATING INCOME                               (105)      (125)     (168)     ( 77)          681      1,098     1,501      2,554     2,811     3,1403     5,845     8,264              26,157
Government Subsidy                                184       144        189        85             75     1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200     1,200                8,475
Less:  Hydrological costs                          -         -          -         -              -       (200)      (220)     (242)     (266)      (292)     (321)      (353)             (1,894)
Other Income (net)                                  7         -       ( 42)       16             10        10        10         10        10         10        10         10                  80
NET INIOME BEFONRE INTEREST                          86        19       ( 21)       24            766     2,108     2,491      3,522     3,755      4,321     6,734     9,121              32,V18
Irnterest
Interest payable                                  108        159       198       257            477       901     1,614      2,416     3,253      4,018     4,366      4,610              21,655    -i0 i
Interest charged to capital                       108       159        198        -              -        194       837      1 446     1,962      2 564     1 812        934               9 749        
Interest charged to operation                      -                             2_7          _77         707       777        97d     1,291                23,676 1,96
NET REVENUE OR (LOSS) FOR TIE YEAR                   86                   21)     (233)           289     1,401     1,714      2,552     2,464      2,867     4,180      5,445              20,912
February 16, 1970



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2 pages
The forecasts in this Annex have been based on the following
assumptions:
(a) IRHE's retail sales will increase by 14% per annum for
1969 and 1970 and 12% thereafter. The estimated sales to
the Panama Canal Company are in accordance with IRHE 's
contract to them for the sale of 30 MW of the output of
Las Minas No. 2. Through 1973 it is estimated that both
IRHE and CPFL will be generating to their maximum. There-
after it is assumed that CPFL will not use any of its own
generating capacity other than the 24 MW Las Minas No. 1
steam unit, and will purchase the balance of its require-
ments from IRHE;
(b) Tariffs for Las Minas No. 2 are in accordance with the
existing contract (see paragraph 2.12);
(c)  Tariffs for Las Minas Nos. 3 and 4 and Bayano would be
set as to enable IRHE to obtain, effective January 1,
1972, the rate of return allowed in Decree Law No. 31,
initially 8-3/4% on net fixed assets and working capital;
and
(d) A Government subsidy of $100,000 per month granted by
Decree Law No. 235, will commence in January 1970. IRHE
will be required to provide for future hydrological
studies out of the subsidy.



ANNEX 8
PANAMA
INSTTTUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
BALANCE SHEETS 1965-1968
(Thousands of Balboas)
Years Ended December 31                                             1965         1966         1967         1968
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross plant in operation                                        3,155        4,901       10,389      10,673
Less:  Depreciation Reserve                                       589          833        1,152       1 635
Net plant in operation                                          2,56         4,o68        9,237       9,036
Work in Progress                                                2,572        3,462        1,443        7,419
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                                            5,138        7,530      10,680       16,457
Studies, Planning, Deferred Expenditures, etc.                    644          663        1,602       2,223
Current Assets
Debtors - Consumers                                               232          242          248         524
- Government                                                -            -           -          481
- Other                                                    77          66          341           42
Less Reserve                                                      (68)         (77)         (87)         (98)
Net Debtors                                                       241          231           02          9y
Bank Balances or (overdrafts)                                     299          528          646          (52)
Inventories ard other current assets                              494          500          566         665
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                          1,034        1,259       1,714        1,562
TOTAL ASShES                                                  6 816        __9 45                  20,242
TLABILITIES
Equity
Capital                                                         1,135        1,135       1,135        1,135
Government Grants & Contributions                               2,688        L,04o       6,689        7,773
Surplus or(Deficit)                                               126          145          124         (109)
TOTAL EQUITY                                                  3,949        5,320        7,948       8,799
Long-term Debt
IBRD - Loan 322-PAN                                             2,193        3,247       3,679        3,715
Suppliers' Credits                                                 -            -            -        5,794
Bonds                                                              -            _           492         561
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT                                          2,193        3,247       4,171       10,070
Current Liabilities
Current liabilities, including current portion of
Long Term Debt               674          885       1,877        1,373
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                             681652                  13,996       20,242
January 1970






ANNEX 9
PANAMA
INSTITt1TO DE RECURSOS HDRAULIOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
EST1l(ATED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS 1969-1976
(Thousands of Balboas)
TOTAL
1969       1970       1971       1972       1973        1974       1975       1976          1969-1976
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation
Net operating income                       681       1,098      1,501      2,554      2,81]       3,A03      5,845     8,264              26,157
Other income                                1          10          10         10         10         10          10        10                 e8
Depreciation                               646         797        963      1 227      1 435      1 924       2 367     2,827              12 186
TOTAL CASH GENERATION                  1,337       1,905 20 47           t  9         W,9      5,337       5        l,222    1101
Net Operating Subsidy                       75      1,000         980        958        934        908         879       84765i
Sale of assets                              51          90          8          1         -          -           -          -847              6
Borrowings
Suppliers' Credits Las Minas 2 and 3       641      4,350         480         -          -          -           -          -               5,471
Proposed IBRD Loan                          -       2,504       8,501     11,039      9,523      8,250       2,183         -              42,000
Future Foreign Loan                         -           -          -          -         721      2,746       4,636      6,047             14,150
TOTAL BORROWINGS                         641      6,854       8,981     11,039     10,244     10,996      6,819       6,047             61,621
Government Contributions
Las Minas 2 and 3                          750        250         250         -          -          -           -          -               1,250
Other                                    1,100       1,200      j.600      4,000      4,800      4,000       1,100        400             20,200
TOTAL GOVERNMENT OONTRIB1TTIONS        1,850      1,50        3,850      4,000      4 800      4,000       1.100        400             2l,450
TOTAL SOURCES                          3.954      11,299     16,293     19,789     20,234     21,241      17,020     18,395            128.225
Applications of Funds
Construction Expenditures (excluding
Capitalized Interest)
Proposed IBRD Project -Foreign Currency     -       2,504       8,501     11,039      9,523      8,250      2,183          -              42,000
-Local Currency       -       1,511      3,623      4,766       3,735      1,947        693         -               16,275
Other Construction    -Foreign Currency    240      4,716         972        141      1,516      3,827       5,811      7,269             24,492
-Local Currency    1,817        719        489         58         768      1,669      2,368      3,765              11,653
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION EXPENDITrURES       2,057      9,450      13,585     16,004     15,542     15,693     11,055      11,034             94,420
Debt Service
Interest (including capitalized interest)
IBRD Loan-322 PAN                          209        203         196        188        180        172        164         154              1,466
Proposed IBRD Loan                          -         236       1,002      1,693      2,288      2,803      2,940       2,888             13,850
Suppliers' Credits                         228        432         398        528        635        571         501        428              3,721
Bonds                                       40          30         18          7         -          -           -          -                  95
Future Foreign Loan                         -           -          -          -         150        472         761      1,140              2,523
TOTAL INTEREST                           477         901      1,614      2,416      3,253      4,018      4,366       4,610             21,655
Amortization
IBRD Loan - 322 PAN                        120        125         130       140         150        155        165         175              1,160
Proposed IBRD Loan                          -           -          -         -           -          -           -       1,048              1,040
Suppliers' Credits                         267        558         592       820       1,068      1,133      1,203       1,275              6,916
Bonds                                      179         185        190       186          -          -           -          -                 740
TOTAL AI4ORTIZATION                      566         868        912     1,146       1,218      1,288       1,368      2,498             9,864
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                     1,043       1,769      2,526     3,562       4,471      5,306       5,734      7,108             31,519
Increase in working capital                700         100        125       150         175        200        225         250              1,925
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                     3,800     11,319       6236    19                                  17,014     18,392            127,84
Annual Surplus or (Deficiency)             154         (20)        57        73          46         42           6          3                361
Surplus or (Deficit) at the
beginning of the year                 (52)       102         82      139          212        258         300        3(0                 (52)
Surplus at the end of the year             102          82        139      212          258        300         306        309                30y
February 16, 1970



PANAMA
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELBCTRIFICACION
ESTIMATED FINANCIAL RATIOS 1969-76
(Thousands of Balboas)
1969     1970     1971      1972     1973      1974     1975      1976
1.  Debt/Equity Ratio                         47/53    53/47    55/45    56/44    56/44    56/44    55/45    53/47
2. Interest Coverage
Net operating income, excluding
subsidy          681    1,098    1,501    2,554    2,811    3,403    5,845    8,264
Interest charged to operation               477       707      777       970    1,291    1,454    2,554    3,676
Times covered, excluding subsidy         1.4       1.6      1.9       2.6      2.2       2.3      2.3       2.2
3. Debt Service Coverage
Internal Cash Generation
(a) excluding subsidy                 1,337    1,905    2,474    3,791    4,256    5,337    8,222   11,101
(b) including subsidy                 1,412    2,905    3,454    4,749    5,190    6,245    9,101   11,948
Debt service                          1,043    1,769    2,526    3,562    4,471    5,306    5,734    7,108
Times covered
(a)  excluding subsidy                 1.3      1.1       1.0      1.1      1.0       1.0       1.4      1.6
(b)  including subsidy                 1.4      1.6       1.4      1.3.      1.2      1.2       1.6      1.7
4. Return on investment
Average net fixed assets in
operation           14,433   18,151   21,444   27,192   29,835   36,139   63,21)4  90,217
Three Months' Gross Revenue                -         -        -      1,999    2,289    2,759    3,588   14,231
TOTAL INVESTMENT                     14,433   18,151   21:444   29191   32,124  38,898   66,802   94,448
Return-Percentage., excluding 
subsidy          4.7      6.1       7.0      8.75      8.75     8.75      8.75      8.75
February 16, 1970



PANAMA
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
ESTIMATED BALANCE SHEETS 1969-1976
(Thousands of Balboas)
Years Ended December 31                                 1969         1970        1971         1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross plant in operation                           19,571       21,989       30,776       32,731       42,503      44,891      100,256      104,775
Less:  Depreciation reserve                          2,251       3,007        3,955        5,168        6,597        8,519       10,885      13,712
Net plant in operation                              17,320      18,982       26,821       27,563       35,906       36,372       89,371       91,063
Work in progress                                       510        7,618      13,2-43      28,736       36,468       52,337        9,839       17,288
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                                17,830      26,600       40,064       56,299       72,374       88,709       99,210      108,351
Studies, Planning, Deferred Expenditure,etc.         2,210        2,197       2,184        2,171        2,165        2,163        2,162        2,162
Net Current Assets                                     741          777          725         876        1,027        1,189          290          380
TOTAL ASSETS                                      20,781      29,574       42,973       59,346       75,66        92,061      101.662      110,893
LIABIMTIES
Equit
Capital                                             10,758       12,208      16,058       20,058       24,858       28,858       29,958       30,358
Surplus                                                180       1,581        3,295        5,847        8,311       11,178       15,358       20,803
TOTAL EQUITY                                      10,938      13,789       19,353       25,9Q5       33,169       40,036       45,316       51,161
Long Term Debt (excluding current portion)
IBRD - Loan 322 PAN                                  3,590        3,460       3,320        3,170        3,015        2,850        2,675        2,490
- Proposed Loan                                    -        2,504       11,005       22,044       31,567       39,817       40,952       39,829
Suppliers' Credits                                   5,877        9,635       9,295        8,227        7,094        5,891        4,616        3,263
Bonds                                                  376          186           -            -           -            -            -
Future foreign loan                                                  -            -            -          721        3,467        8,103       14,150
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT                               9,843      15,785       23,620       33,441       42,397       52,025       56,346       59,732
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                 20,781                                59,346       75,56        92h061      101,662      110,893
February 16, 1970






C    A    R    ,           o
<P tqANrls.                                                                         4
SW/N CRAMa
2  .-'  _'  VIENT3FVIENR1 FRI                                          8  a , 
_t. g    -' '-. k s CU/N/OS                tWO tA/I ISLANDS ORP OtC/O KEYS
EL PORVENIR
:.---    - .- -    \];'.  ', S  ,  S/J4/RA                             A                                       SCt 
/ / n \ ' I \ , > ) >,r ( '< ' ' '<s ULF OF SAN fLAS  e A    4 4o
o'' ~ ~~~ ~~~~~            A. ' i     ' 'R   _     t/TUPRt                                                               4 
C/AMYMALATUPO
UISTIPO YNVA//IT/A'
"al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PLA YOW CIYAV ~ ~ ~ ~ CI/TPO/I
PeIbROJDAN'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VN/lP
s ' ¢)s /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                       N.   )           -p . o_L(Cl/tS6O9°    
I~~~~~~~~~~ If,"-a'V,  ,-',  C''Sr/'   t,,        '.%,-, 
4 '  i' I '''   '  ''    ''  A. _' 'N\C
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
CMLIBRMAI,EN  T ASo                                                                                                       OA
j  t~~~~~~~~~~~15/ED  ROADS                                      I ---- x,/ ,),
MAR~~~~~~~ EUGENIA~AR/lW 
,~~~~~~~~____ ACCESS ROADS                                        /TSI.ANBQ''                          _,_                 PNM
.WATESSEETO BOUNDARY                                               .        I -
_ . __ PRPOSE PROECT RANSI55III LNES                 d.-J   ov( \            INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS
h** RIVERSBOUtIDARY                                           9\t 4;   5'  t5<\t                 Location of Boyono
0    /0 /3 20 20 //lOOMS/EU                    °'M  no An /                     Hydroelectric Development
OC TOBER 199 6 9-71






0    L  O    N
C    A    R    I    e B  E    A    N         S    E    A                       -                           r
GOLON i     ,        M E T R iDPp    T A N
/                              i0P  A  N  A  M  A~OMERI.N M
/ ,,---..
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pnn    "'o j          NAM
2 /    C    O    Cc      L    E~  N'\
-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                       WX  PAAM
C)  E  Nlk T  R  A  L      La Pintodo          Churuquito
<     P  R  O  V\n  N  C  E  S1
S  y  S \T  E  M
La Yeguad\                                                                          PANAMA
C  \.    \                               Hato -INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS
<                    \    (    Agurice I                                     HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
vr   \J        w        g                               ~~~~~~~~~METROPOLITAN AREA, CANAL ZONE,
{4>>4 - __ S ~~~PANAMA WEST a! CENTRAL PROVINCE;
w   Sanitiago                                                                    Ettn     yreeti   ln
A    Existing thermal plant
>                                                          ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Existing substation
/   \    \>. °    Existing 195 KV transmission tine
/                 _~~~~~~~~~Cire                               Existing transmission lines less than 115 KV
C!                                               A~\                     Proposed thermal plant
< ) ~~~~H E R R E R  A                                /                           \Proposed 230 KV transmission line
% ( 5 \> X ._ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Centrol Provinces Line. il5 KV ptertned for 1975
>                           3Los TablasL                              - _-- Province boundary
> ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10   20s\o  o Z  30    40
>   \\   /                                  tlt            o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5    lo  15  20   2
9  )   \   L O S    S A N T O S                  >                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Miles
S~~ ~~~~ 0   ANT S
P A C I F I C O C E A N
NOVEMBER 1969                                                                                                     BR   25



