            Document of
          The World Bank




                                       Report No: 31881

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-25700)

               ON A

              CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.9 MILLION

              TO THE

         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

              FOR AN

EDUCATION SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT




            March 30, 2005

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective 1/21/2000)

                  Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
                         YER 1 = US$ 0.00617
                         US$ 1 = YER 162

                        FISCAL YEAR
               JANUARY 1        DECEMBER 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
            CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
            CAU             Credit Administration Unit
            CC              Community College
            CU              Coordination Unit
            DCA             Development Credit Agreement
            ECA             Europe & Central Asia
            EMIS            Education Management Information System
            ERDC            Education Research and Development Council
            ERR             Economic Rate of Return
            ESIP            Education Sector Investment Project
            FTI             Fast Track Initiative
            GDP             Gross Domestic Product
            GER             Gross Enrollment Rate
            GNI             Gross National Income
            IDA             International Development Association
            M&E             Monitoring & Evaluation
            MDG             Millenium Development Goal
            MENA            Middle East & North Africa
            MOE             Ministry of Education
            MOF             Ministry of Finance
            MOPD            Ministry of Planning and Development
            PDMA            Project Development and Monitoring Agency
            PPF             Project Preparation Facility
            PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
            QAG             Quality Assurance Group
            QSA             Quality of Supervision Assessment
            SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
            TTL             Task Team Leader
            TVET            Technical and Vocational Education and Training

                 Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
              Country Director       Emmanuel Mbi
               Sector Manager        Michal J. Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Ousmane Diagana

                                  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                           RY Education Sector Investment Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P005911                                                  Project Name: RY Education Sector
Team Leader: Ousmane Diagana                                         TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: RY Education Sector                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-25700
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (56%); Tertiary education (32%); Central
                            government administration (12%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Education for the knowledge
                            economy (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to urban
                            services for the poor (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/20/1992                                     Effective:                           03/23/1995
     Appraisal: 10/17/1993                                         MTR: 12/30/1997                  02/08/1998
      Approval: 02/17/1994                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF EDUC.
                      Other Partners:      OPEC (Cancelled)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio K. Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Ram K. Chopra
Sector Director:                Michal J. Rutkowski                            Alfred T. Heron
Team Leader at ICR:             Ousmane Diagana                                Yogendra Saran
ICR Primary Author:             Gillian M. Perkins


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HU
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Country and sector context

1. Country context: The Republic of Yemen, with a population of 19 million and a per capita GNI of
US$510, is one of the poorest countries in the world. Population growth of more than 3% annually has
dampened the impact of economic growth on social indicators: the Human Development Index places
Yemen 149th out of 169 ranked countries; adult literacy is estimated at 50%, and below 30% for women.
Following the unification of north and south Yemen in 1990, and a period of instability through 1994, the
government made substantial progress in restoring macroeconomic stability and achieving steady growth.
Recently, the pace of reforms has slowed and economic indicators have weakened. Reform of the public
sector has been particularly slow and governance and institutional capacity remain weak. The country's
known oil reserves, which have been the main source of growth and public revenue, are projected to be
depleted over the next 8-10 years. Among the challenges now facing the government are to diversify
sources of growth, reduce high unemployment especially of youth, and address gender and rural-urban
inequities.

2. Sector context: The government maintains high financial commitment to education: from 1996 to 2003,
the sector's share of expenditures in GDP increased from 5.1% to 6.4%; and in total government
expenditure, from 16% to 21%. Education has been one of the pillars of the government's successive
five-year plans and is the strategic focus of its PRSP and 2025 Vision. Public schooling is highly
subsidized at all levels with minimal direct costs to parents and no tuition fees for basic or secondary
education. As a result of these commitments, enrollment rates for basic, secondary and tertiary education
improved despite the 4% population growth rate of the school-age cohort, and the share of girls in total
enrollments increased at all levels. Still, serious inadequacies persist in access, quality and efficiency. Drop
out rates are high throughout the system. Having still one of the lowest enrollment rates in basic education
(estimated GER of 64%) and largest gender gaps in basic and secondary education in the world, Yemen is
not yet on-track to meet the MDGs of universal primary enrollment, or of gender parity at all education
levels, by 2015.

3. Role of the Bank: The Bank has been supporting education development in Yemen through education
sector projects and through school construction under social fund and public works projects. The Education
Sector Investment Project (ESIP) financed investments in the secondary and post-secondary subsectors,
complementing two concurrent projects: the Basic Education Project (1993-2001), which helped to increase
the participation of girls and lay the basis for quality improvement in basic education; and the Secondary
Teacher Training Project (1991-1999), which helped to improve secondary school teaching and increase the
number of Yemeni teachers, particularly women. In the last three years, the Bank has focused support on
the government's development of strategies for basic education, TVET, higher education, and children and
youth development. Yemen's strategy for universal basic education has provided the basis for concerted
international support from the Bank and bilateral donors and through a grant from the Catalytic Fund for
the EFA Fast Track Initiative. The government and the Bank are now focusing on the strategy for
secondary education, carrying out sector work on secondary education within a sector-wide perspective,
and embarking on preparation of a proposed project for girls' secondary education which will draw on the
lessons learned in the ESIP.

Original Objective:

4. The project objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and subsequent project



                                                       - 2 -

documentation, and taken as the basis for this report, were:
(a)      enhancement of the learning achievements of secondary students with special emphasis on science
         and mathematics education and quality of teaching;
(b)      improvement in the access of girls to secondary education; and
(c)      establishment of labor market oriented two-year post-secondary education programs, covering
         business, commerce, and industry.

Project objectives were stated differently and less specifically in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA): "To assist the Borrower in improving the quality of secondary and post-secondary education and to
strengthen the institutions and operations of the education sector through implementation of the first phase
in 1994-2000 of its Sector Development Policy Statement." However, the two statements are consistent.
The Sector Development Policy Statement of October 1993, referred to in the DCA, outlined exactly the
same program as the "Planned Change Program" (the government's plan of actions and performance targets
for the project set out in a letter in the same month) and stated the government's long-term objectives of
"improving the quality of education, enhancing the access of girls to secondary education, and
establishment of labor-market oriented post-secondary education."

5. These objectives were and remain relevant as they contribute directly to the higher-level objectives of
the Bank's CAS and government PRSP which include: (i) building human capital; (ii) emphasizing girls'
education to close the gender gap in basic and secondary education; and (iii) improving the environment of
private sector investment. However, given the prevailing political instability and weak implementing
capacity of the newly united country, they presented an overly complex and ambitious agenda.

3.2 Revised Objective:
6. Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
7. Project components (see Table 1 below) related well to the project objectives but the scope and
complexity were extraordinarily unmatched to country institutional capacity. At appraisal, the project
comprised 25 distinct "subprojects" within the eight "Change Areas" of the Planned Change Program, for a
total project cost of US$49.7 million. The terminology is unusual: in effect, the Change Areas represented
project components or subcomponents, for each of which a Subproject Director would be assigned. A total
of US$4.9 million was reserved for activities to be identified and appraised during implementation: either
for additional subprojects within any of the Change Areas, or for small improvement projects proposed by
schools. The reason given for basing project design on multiple subprojects was to allow flexibility in the
course of implementation, so that activities (which included some pilot activities) could be adjusted or
revised on the basis of experience. But the difficulties that such fragmentation implied -- for management,
prioritization, coordination and efficiency -- were not taken into account.

8. A component was included for project monitoring and management but, originally, the DCA lacked an
expenditure category for operating costs of project management. Project management arrangements
envisaged a new intermediary agency -- the Project Development Management Agency (PDMA) -- with
three separate units for project management, project implementation and coordination, as well as the eight
Subproject Directors. The intention was to ensure adequate managerial strength and professional expertise
for each component/Change Area, considering the weak capacity in the Ministry of Education. However,
the complexity of these arrangements made them impractical; and the division of responsibilities was
inefficient, with school construction activities in two different Change Areas and procurement of books,
learning materials and equipment for schools spread across five or six.




                                                       - 3 -

                                    Table 1: Original Components
   Project       "Change       Base
Component         Area"        Costs                         Sub-Components/"Sub-Projects"
                               (US$ m.)
             (i) Physical         11.0   Reduce overcrowding in urban secondary schools by providing
             Facilities                  additional classrooms, schools for girls, double shifting, redistribution
                                         of pupils to separate primary and secondary schools; provide science
                                         and other school equipment and furniture to secondary schools;
                                         establish maintenance system for school buildings and equipment.
              (ii) Teacher        0.5    Produce a comprehensive range of in-service training modules;
              Performance                establish in-service training systems through summer schools; develop
                                         a school-based system of in-service education.
1. Secondary  (iii) Curric-       1.1    Strengthen institutional capacity of the Curriculum Development
Education     ulum Devt.                Department; initiate and complete the first cycle of curriculum renewal
                                        and produce prototypes of textbooks, teacher guides and manuals.
              (iv)                1.6    Establish a computer-based information system to provide baseline and
              Education                 current data for monitoring progress of the Planned Change Program;
              Management                produce management manuals for headmasters and deputies and
                                        distribute to all schools; develop system of training and supervision to
                                        ensure that these are used effectively.
              (v) Learning        2.7    Upgrade facilities of the Media Resources Production Center; pilot
              Resources                 introduction of computers in 10 schools; enhance production capacity
                                        for TV teaching programs and pilot use of educational TV and VCR in
                                        25 schools; pilot improvement in school libraries including provision of
                                        additional books in 40 schools and development of 10 model school
                                        libraries.
              (vi) Eval-          1.0    Strengthen capacity in evaluation and supervision to develop and
              uation                    implement an effective model for evaluation; provide a student
                                        assessment manual for teachers, supervisors and headmasters; establish
                                        a national system of annual tests in grades 9 and 12; develop a
                                        question/item bank to facilitate in-school student assessment through
                                        testing higher level abilities as opposed to rote learning.
2. Female     (vii) Female        4.9    School construction, equipment and furniture for rural girls; pilot
Participation Access                     home-based learning program for rural girls; media campaign for
                                         girls' secondary education.
3. School-    Any of the          0.8    Support proposals submitted by schools for projects averaging
based        above                      US$10,000 for improvements and innovations in any of the above
Subprojects                             Change Areas.
4. Community (viii) Post-        14.8    Establish governance framework for the Community College system;
Colleges      Secondary                 establish Sana'a and Aden Community Colleges through conversion
               Programs                 and equipping of existing facilities; provide TA and fellowships for
                                        teacher development.
5. Project     All                0.5   Supervision, monitoring and evaluation of above subprojects and
Monitoring &                            appraisal of future subprojects by the PDMA.
Management
6. Future     Any                 4.1    Future "subprojects" to be identified and appraised during the course
Subprojects                             of implementation.


3.4 Revised Components:
9. In the event, quite major changes were made in the program, although the process and criteria for
agreement, and the details of these changes, were not always well documented. The project became



                                                     - 4 -

effective in March 1995, but the first modifications were not made until late 1996, when project
management had still not been satisfactorily established and progress on implementation was negligible. A
new Task Manager and a new Minister of Education agreed to change the project's complex administrative
structure to a simple Coordination Unit (CU) and the DCA was amended in May 1997 to include an
expenditure category for operating costs. This "light" restructuring allowed a few activities to proceed but
coordination between the subproject directors and line ministries was troublesome and the project was rated
Unsatisfactory on both Implementation Progress and Development Objectives from mid-1995 through late
1997.

10. Substantial revisions to the project components were agreed by the Mid-Term Review in early 1998,
when it was clear that the scope and complexity of the project had to be reduced. With serious problems
persisting in project management, little progress had been made in disbursement and implementation. In
addition, the expected OPEC co-financing (US$ 8 million) was cancelled, requiring a reduction in the scale
of activities. The project budget was revised (see section 5.4, Table 3) with three important shifts in
emphasis: (i) the scope of the quality improvement measures was greatly reduced; (ii) the scale of the
provision of school equipment and learning resources was also greatly reduced; and (iii) the balance of civil
works shifted, increasing the emphasis on rural girls schools vis-à-vis urban schools, giving higher priority
to addressing the huge gender gap in rural areas. At this time, the following subprojects were dropped or
drastically curtailed: the maintenance system for school buildings and equipment; school cluster-based
in-service training; institutional capacity for curriculum development; training course for headmasters;
learning resources subprojects; most of the evaluation subprojects; and the component for school-based
subprojects. The home-based learning program and media campaign for girls were also dropped and
replaced by pilot female education centers with a community participation program, which it was
considered would be more effective in promoting female literacy. The DCA was amended accordingly. As
the objectives of the project remained the same, these changes were not regarded as a formal restructuring
that would require Board approval.

11. In 2000, it was agreed to concentrate remaining project resources, including cost savings from
classroom construction, on building and equipping an additional 50 rural girls schools, in line with both
project objectives and country priorities. In April 2001, the project closing date was extended for eighteen
months, and reallocation of Credit proceeds was approved, to allow for completion of these schools and of
the Sana'a Community College. At this stage, only 44% of the Credit had been disbursed but
implementation progress had been greatly boosted by the decision of the new Minister of Education in 2001
to consolidate the administration of all education projects including the ESIP within a single strong Credit
Administration Unit (CAU) and to give the Ministry a more direct role. A subsequent and final extension of
the closing date for a further eighteen months to September 2004 was justified by strong progress on the
school construction and the high priority given by the government to both the rural schools and the
Community Colleges. When prolonged procurement difficulties for the civil works for Sana'a Community
College could not be resolved in reasonable time, the Bank withdrew from financing these remaining
construction activities; the works, which were satisfactorily completed, were financed directly by the
government and not under the Credit.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
12. Quality at entry is rated Highly Unsatisfactory because of the weakness of project design and of
project management and implementation arrangements.




                                                       - 5 -

13. On the positive side, project objectives were relevant and in line with CAS and client priorities. The
project was based on country knowledge and analysis, drawing on a 1992 IDA study ­ Republic of Yemen,
Human Development: Societal Needs and Human Capital Response ­ which was discussed with the
government in 1992 and provided the basis for project identification through a national workshop on
Planned Change in Secondary Education. In addition, the post-secondary component was supported by two
1993 studies: a Survey of Middle-Level Manpower Needs and a Labor Market Study for Community
Colleges. The project complemented existing and planned IDA-funded operations in basic and tertiary
education. Adequate pre-service teacher training capacity to support the ESIP had already been established
through completed and on-going IDA-supported projects for training of secondary teachers. Preparation
was carried out in a participatory manner and government commitment was strong.

14. Project design, however, was seriously flawed. The scope and complexity of the project were far
beyond country capacity to implement and greatly underestimated the time and other requirements for
reform of curriculum and evaluation systems. The fragmented structure of the project compounded the
challenge for prioritization, coordination, and transparent management. Building in flexibility, through
multiple "subprojects" that could be revised or added in the course of implementation, actually increased
the burden on weak project management and on Bank supervision. Components and subcomponents were
described and categorized differently in different documents. Little attention was given by the Bank or the
government at this stage to prioritizing or sequencing the numerous proposed interventions.

15. Project management arrangements created insurmountable problems for coordination, both within the
project structures and between Subproject Directors and the Ministry of Education. Implementation plans
were highly detailed ­ in five large volumes ­ but did not match the flexible nature of the project and
became redundant as adjustments were made in the schedule and the composition of subcomponents.
Although M&E was given more attention in the SAR than was typical of projects prepared in the early
1990s, the M&E plan had similar deficiencies: it was extensive and complex, with an excessive number of
indicators, mostly relating to project outputs; an "impact assessment" was also outlined but lacked realism
in terms of the necessary institutional arrangements and capacity; and much of the plan became redundant
as components and project management responsibilities were re-adjusted. Essentially, the plan in the SAR
was of no practical use and was largely ignored throughout implementation.

16. Prior to Board presentation, the Bank unit serving a quality control function at the time (the Technical
Unit in ECA-MENA) had flagged the project as problematic. Some, but not nearly enough, of the problems
were addressed before the ESIP was approved. Some of the risks were accurately identified, including the
inexperience of the proposed new intermediary agency (the PDMA), and potential delays due to the
inter-relationships between sub-components; but the proposed mitigating measures were far from adequate.
As designed, the project proved impossible to implement. Two years from effectiveness, the proposed
project management structures had still not been effectively established. Project scope and project
management both had to be restructured twice before the project could be brought, three years behind
schedule, to a satisfactory conclusion. The QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment (September 2004)
found project design at entry to be unsound: "The ESIP started with an overly ambitious and complex
design... The pattern for such projects is that they usually end badly. This project was a clear exception.
Although a problem project for several years, the Bank and Borrower turned the project around in the last
three years."

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
 17. Overall, outcome is rated moderately Satisfactory. Despite serious problems and inefficiencies in the



                                                     - 6 -

 early years, the ESIP ultimately exceeded expectations on its girls' access objective, fully met its
 post-secondary objective, and partially met its quality enhancement objective. The project had two
 particularly important impacts:

(i)     Through its focus on expanding girls' access to secondary education, it not only expanded female
enrollments through project interventions but also highlighted this as a critically important issue for Yemeni
society as a whole, beyond the education sector. The ESIP contributed substantially to making gender
parity in secondary education a key priority now for the government and donors, and to generating a
momentum in demand for girls' secondary education in many rural communities.

(ii)    Through the successful pioneering and establishment of Community Colleges, the project has
demonstrated the viability of alternative post secondary programs that are less costly than existing
university programs and can produce substantially higher graduate employment rates. The model is being
replicated in other sites in response to popular demand.

 18. The project fully achieved its objective of improving the access of girls to secondary education, far
 exceeding its original targets. All the new facilities constructed and equipped by the project are staffed
 and fully utilized. The emphasis of the project was appropriately on rural areas, where the gender gap is
 extreme. Against an original target of 5,000, the project created 17,500 new places for girls in rural
 secondary schools, representing more than half of the remarkable national increase in girls' access since
 the late 1990s (Table 2). In urban areas, where girls already account for 40% of enrollments (more than
 50% in Sana'a City), the project created 7,500 new places for girls. From 1999-2000 to 2003-2004, the
 estimated GER for girls increased from 29% to 37% in Grades 7-9.

                                 Table 2: Expansion in Secondary Enrollments*
Enrolments in Grades 10-12
 Rural                                          1998/99            2002/03          % increase
   Girls                                                   27,463            60,406             120%
   Boys                                                  162,144            231,675              43%
   Total                                                 189,607            292,081              54%
 % Girls                                                     14%              21%                43%
 Urban
   Girls                                                   66,317           101,218              53%
   Boys                                                  120,140            156,064              30%
   Total                                                 186,457            257,282              38%
 % Girls                                                     36%              39%                11%
 Enrolments in Grades 7-12
 Girls                                                   164,985            533,777             224%
 Boys                                                    465,805            830,352              78%
 Total                                                   630,790          1,364,129             116%
 % girls                                                     26%              39%                50%
        Source: Ministry of Education
 * The new structure of general education in Yemen -- shifting from Primary (G1-6) and Secondary (G7-12) to Basic (G1-9)
 and Secondary (G10-12) -- was introduced during ESIP implementation. The project provided places for G7-12, with the
 emphasis shifting to G10-12 in the latter part of the project.

 19. The objective of establishing labor market oriented post-secondary programs was also achieved. A
 tracer study (September 2004) of the first 100 graduates of the two colleges financed by the project
 indicates graduate employment rates of above 80%; and employers were reported to be highly satisfied



                                                               - 7 -

 with the skills of the CC graduates. The project has clearly confirmed the need for and viability of this
 type of post-secondary program, geared primarily to the private sector, and has established an
 institutional basis for further expansion.

 20. On the basis of very limited evidence available, the project only partially achieved its objective of
 enhancing the learning achievements of secondary students, with special emphasis on science and
 mathematics education, and quality of teaching. In urban schools, overcrowding was identified as an
 important constraint to learning achievement and was addressed through the project by the construction of
 335 additional classrooms (against an original target of 250). However, overcrowding in urban schools
 continues to be a serious problem: the additional classrooms appear to have contributed more to meeting
 the growing demand for places than to improving learning achievement by reducing overcrowding.
 Improvements through the project in the quality and/or quantity of secondary school inputs ­ curriculum,
 textbooks, teacher training in math and science, science and other facilities and equipment, manuals for
 school management and assessment ­ could be expected to have had some positive impact on learning
 achievement and the quality of teaching in both urban and rural areas. However, the extent of the relevant
 activities fell well short of the original expectations and no assessments or evaluations were carried out to
 determine the effectiveness of any of the project's interventions for quality improvement.

 21. Data on the national trend in learning achievement in secondary school math and science are not
 available. Given the rapid rate of recent expansion in enrollments, some decline in average learning
 achievement would be expected and is supported by anecdotal evidence from higher education staff.
 Grade 12 examinations are norm-based and not useful for judging performance trends over time (although
 they do point to consistently better performance of girls than boys). The share of examination candidates
 in the scientific section (students choose between scientific and literary sections) increased steadily from
 34% in 1998/99 to 57% in 2002/03, with a slightly higher pass rate than the literary section. Efforts to
 improve quality and efficiency are not yet reflected in retention and drop-out rates which continue to be
 high: some 62% of the students entering Grade 7, and 77% of those entering Grade 10, continue to Grade
 12.

4.2 Outputs by components:
22. The project achieved most of the planned outputs of the revised components and in some cases greatly
exceeded the original targets. It was highly successful in construction of schools and classrooms and in
establishing the new Community College system. The quality of school construction was high and the ESIP
contributed to reducing the unit costs of construction in the sector. The results of the quality improvement
and capacity building interventions for secondary education, which were scaled back substantially at
Mid-Term, were less significant. The outputs by Component (1-6) and Change Area (i-viii) were as follows
(see section 10 for additional information):

Component 1: Secondary Education (Satisfactory)

(i) Physical Facilities in urban areas (actual expenditures US$5.86 m.)

23. The construction targets were exceeded, despite almost halving of the budget, but provision of
equipment was confined to the schools with ESIP construction projects. The project successfully
constructed and equipped 335 additional classrooms in urban secondary schools, 120 of these for girls.
Science equipment and laboratory experiments were supplied to 40 schools in seven governorates. The
quality of the construction and equipment was judged to be good by supervision missions and construction
costs were found by the Country Portfolio Performance Review to be among the lowest in the sector. The
impact on overcrowding appears to have been only temporary. Most urban secondary classes still have



                                                       - 8 -

more than 50 students and many are much larger still. According to Ministry data, the number of schools
working two shifts increased but the share of schools with double shifting decreased slightly. No steps were
taken to implement a maintenance system for school buildings and equipment; a study was conducted but
was not followed up.

(ii)-(vi) Improvements in education quality and management (actual expenditures US$1.62 m.)

24. The budget and expectations were cut back drastically at Mid-Term. Under the revised program, the
following sub-components were retained and implemented:
Summer schools for in-service teacher training. Training modules were produced, audio visual equipment
provided, and training conducted annually in five governorates for a total of 3,100 unqualified teachers of
math and science. No assessment of training effectiveness is available.
Renewal of curricula, textbooks and teachers' guides. New textbooks and teachers' guides for Grades
7-12 were developed by ERDC, printed and distributed to schools in 2003-2004. Piloting of the books was
neglected and pressure to produce the books quickly led to some printing errors, and the printing of some
books in two separate volumes. No independent assessment has yet been carried out on the quality of the
curricula and materials, which were intended to promote active learning. Anecdotal evidence suggests that
the new books are not seen at the school level as a significant improvement; and the need for reform of
secondary curricula continues to be a widespread concern.
Establishment of the EMIS met with delays in procuring and delivering equipment and lack of "ownership"
by the MOE. Equipment delivered to pilot governorates was used for other purposes. School mapping and
education data management have improved, with some contribution from the ESIP as well as other sources,
but are still weak. The project generated lessons ­ including the need for more emphasis on participation
and training ­ that have been incorporated in more recent assistance, but the approach is still fragmented.
Production and distribution of a management manual for schools. The manual was developed in
consultation with school officials, and 10,000 copies were printed and distributed to schools. Effectiveness
in improving school management was not assessed but the manuals are still supplied and in strong demand.
Learning resources piloting. Library books, computers and audio-visual equipment were procured for
schools constructed under the project, but their usage in schools has not been systematically assessed. A
notable achievement (through trust funds assigned to the project) was the design and installation of solar
systems to power audio-visual and computer equipment in three rural schools. The model has proved viable
and is now being extended to 50 more schools with UNICEF assistance.
Production and distribution of a manual for school-based assessment. Based on a survey of teaching and
exam practices in schools, a manual for teachers was developed and 50,000 copies were printed and
distributed. Schools are continuing to request copies and funding has been made available to print more.
The subproject for strengthening central capacity for evaluation was dropped: equipment for the computer
network was purchased and installed; but software, operating systems and training were not completed.

Component 2: Female Participation (Satisfactory)

(vii) Improving Female Access (actual expenditures US$10.55 m.)

25. The revised budget increased funding to this component by 40%. Achievements were substantial for
two of the three sub-components:
New schools. In the first stage, 10 girls' secondary schools in rural areas were constructed, furnished and
equipped, providing 5,000 additional places. Due to the relatively low unit costs of construction achieved,
and successful site selection processes involving communities, it was decided to construct and equip a
further 50 smaller rural girls' schools under the project. These were successfully completed by closure of
the project, contributing a further 12,500 places. Supervision missions found the quality of construction


                                                     - 9 -

and equipment to be good. Working through Community Participation Units, the project established strong
coordination with local and community institutions, promoting the involvement of parents and encouraging
them to keep girls in school through the secondary grades. All the schools are now staffed and in operation,
most as female secondary schools, some as basic Grades 1-9 schools which will extend to secondary grades
when their students reach Grade 10.
Home-based learning. A media campaign was embarked on but was found to be unnecessary and was
replaced by pilot female education centers for women who had dropped out of school, combined with a
community participation program. Two rural centers for women in Sana'a governorate were constructed
and equipped, but with less community participation than anticipated. Working teams were formed to
prepare the curricula, study plans and materials. However, the subcomponent was abandoned in 1999,
when subproject directors were dropped from the project management structure, and the centers are now
being used as regular schools.
Career advancement for women teachers. A total of about 250 selected students from rural areas have
graduated since 2001 in a program designed to overcome the extreme shortage of female teachers of math,
science and English in rural schools. The graduates are now serving as teachers in rural schools and are
considered as role models in their communities.

Component 3: School-Based Subprojects was not implemented (expenditure was zero). The reasons for
this do not appear to have been documented but can be attributed to the lack of implementing capacity.

Component 4: Community Colleges (Satisfactory)

(viii) Establishment of Post-secondary Programs (actual expenditures US$12.71 m.)

26. The planned outputs of this component were accomplished satisfactorily, although with delay in the
case of one of the colleges, due to site and procurement problems. In 2002, when procurement issues had
still not been resolved, the Bank withdrew from financing remaining construction activities at Sana'a
Community College. The government demonstrated its commitment to the program by allocating funds in
its 2003 budget to complete the works. In addition to construction and equipment, the project funded
overseas fellowships to train tutors, and substantial technical assistance to support establishment of the
governance structure for these colleges. The first teacher fellowships, which were to the USA, met with two
problems: the substantial amount of language training that was needed; and the tendency for beneficiaries
to remain overseas to pursue other opportunities. Subsequent fellowships for training within the region
proved more viable.

27. Governance arrangements for the CC system were successfully established. Private sector and other
local stakeholders participated in the planning of facilities and design of courses. Handover was much
smoother for the Sana'a than Aden College, because of early beneficiary participation in Sana'a in defining
equipment needs and organization of space. Despite the delays in completing the Sana'a works, both CCs
began operations in 2000 and are now fully operational (and a third college has since been established
under separate funding), with current enrolment totalling 1,510. A tracer study of the first graduates of the
three-year program indicates an employment rate above 80% and high satisfaction on the part of
employers. Graduates to date are only in Information Technology fields but diplomas in other fields are
now being offered or coming on stream.

Component 5: Project Monitoring and Management (actual expenditure US$1.71 m.) (Moderately
Satisfactory)

28. Project management underwent three phases: from the originally proposed Project Development and


                                                     - 10 -

Monitoring Agency (PDMA), to the Coordinating Unit (CU) from 1998, to the Credit Administration Unit
(CAU) from 2001. Efforts in the first two years from effectiveness to establish an effective PDMA, which
would replicate IDA functions in appraisal of new subprojects as well as supervising and monitoring
on-going ones, were unsuccessful. This was replaced with a more standard and semi-autonomous project
unit, the CU, which got project activities moving but proved to be weak in procurement functions, in
control of staff expansion, and in coordination with the Ministries of Education and Higher Education. The
Subproject Director layer was phased out in 1999-2000 with the aim of improving coordination and
efficiency and, in 2001, the administration of ESIP was moved to a consolidated Credit Administration
Unit (CAU) for all education projects. The functions of the CAU were confined to fiduciary and reporting
responsibilities, in which its performance was highly satisfactory, while the Ministry of Education took a
stronger role in directing project activities. This arrangement proved much more effective and transformed
the progress in project implementation. The ambitious original plans for project monitoring and evaluation,
however, were never fulfilled.

Component 6: Future Subprojects (actual expenditure US$0.38 m.)

29. This component was effectively dropped. Its concept was based on the assumption of a well-functioning
PDMA which would be responsible for appraisal of new subprojects. In the event, the PDMA was never
fully functional, and the challenges in implementing existing subprojects were already more than could be
handled. The resources were reallocated to scale up the construction of rural girls' schools.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
30. An ERR was not calculated for this project. The cost effectiveness of civil works (accounting for half
of final project expenditures) was good, with unit costs of classroom construction comparing favorably
with those of other projects in the sector. Overall efficiency was affected by delays and by investment of
resources in activities that were subsequently dropped.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
31. The institutional development impact of ESIP is rated Modest. The most significant impact was in
establishing the legal and governance structure for the new Community College system, incorporating
private sector participation in program design. The project was also successful in establishing effective
roles for district authorities and communities in secondary school site selection (and gaining community
commitment to girls enrolment through the process).

32. Drawing on the ESIP experience, the on-going education projects have adopted new implementation
approaches in which the Ministry plays the pivotal role in project execution and capacity building at the
governorate and district levels. This is in line with the government strategy of devolving implementation
responsibilities to the regional levels. Under these principles, the role of project units is limited to the core
fiduciary functions of procurement, financial management, and accounting. The approach has proved
successful in the education sector -- in helping to enhance the capacity of the Ministry of Education and
local offices as well as improving project performance -- and is used as a model for other sectors.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
33. External factors were signficant: civil war at the stage of project approval, and the time taken for
ratification by parliament, delayed project effectiveness by a full year; the withdrawal of US$8 million



                                                       - 11 -

co-financing by OPEC caused project activities to be curtailed; and an increase in transport insurance fees,
following a terrorist attack, increased the costs of materials and equipment in the last year of execution.
Variable Bank performance was also a factor: weak Bank performance in project design contributed to the
problems in implementation; however, the posting of a Bank Task Team Leader with strong
implementation skills to the Country Office in 2001 helped the government to turn the project around.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
34. Delays on the part of the government in addressing deficiencies in project management ­ in
transforming the PDMA into a CU, and subsequently in recognizing weaknesses in the rapidly expanding
CU ­ impeded implementation. In addition, lengthy processes in MOF and MOPD for approving
withdrawal applications delayed payment of contracts and disbursement. However, strong leadership of the
Ministry from 2001, and government commitment to the goals of the project, were critical to the
(ultimately) satisfactory outcome.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
35. Weaknesses in the CU -- including lack of respect of procurement guidelines, poor quality of
procurement documents, and estimation of costs without solid technical assessment -- had a negative
impact on the pace and efficiency of implementation until 2001. Much of the credit for progress from 2001
and successful completion of the project is due to the leadership and performance of the CAU, which took
over ESIP administration for the last three years.

5.4 Costs and financing:
36. The original budget for the project amounted to US$49.7 million: US$33.0 million IDA Credit;
US$8.0 million OPEC co-financing; and US$8.7 million counterpart funding. The DCA was amended in
1996 to add an expenditure category for operating costs of the project unit. Subsequently, withdrawal of
the planned co-financing by OPEC, combined with poor implementation performance up to this time,
prompted a revision of the project budget from 1998 (Table 3). The total budget for the project was
reduced from US$49.7 million to US$33 million: no explanation could be found as to why the counterpart
contribution was omitted as well as the co-financing. The proposed allocation for urban school facilities
was reduced by 52%, and the combined allocation for secondary education quality and management
improvements by 70%. Funding for the community colleges was not significantly changed. Much higher
priority was given to improving female access in rural areas, increasing the allocation by 40% despite the
contraction of the overall budget. These shifts were accentuated in actual expenditures in favor of rural
girls' schools over urban schools, and of civil works over equipment.

                Table 3: Project costs by component/"Change Area" (US$ million)
                                                                  Appraisal    Revised 1998             Actual
 School facilities (urban):                                             11.00             5.25             5.86
Teacher performance                                                      0.50             0.20             0.21
Curriculum devt.                                                         1.10             0.20             0.65
Education management                                                     1.60             0.90             0.69
Learning resources                                                       2.70             0.50             0.05
Evaluation                                                               1.00             0.25             0.02
Improving female access (rural)                                          4.90             6.85           10.55
Community Colleges                                                      14.80            14.60           12.71
Project management and monitoring                                        0.50             1.30             1.71
School-based and Future subprojects & Contingencies                     11.60             2.95             0.38
 Total:                                                                 49.70            33.00           32.83




                                                     - 12 -

37. The project achieved classroom construction costs below the budget estimates and, in 2000, it was
decided to allocate remaining project funds to building an additional 50 smaller rural girls' schools. The
Bank agreed in 2001 to a reallocation of expenditures (Table 4) to allow for completion of the few
remaining activities -- on the rural girls' schools and the community colleges -- and agreed to two extensions
of the closing date, totalling three years, for this purpose. Costs of completing the construction were
somewhat higher than planned due to an increase in transport insurance costs following a terror attack. The
project closed on September 30, 2004, with total expenditures of US$32.8 million, of which US$1.1 million
was government funding. After extensive delays due to site and procurement problems, the Bank withdrew
from funding the final civil works at Sana'a Community College and these costs were met instead through
the 2003 national budget. A balance of some US$1.3 million of the Credit will be cancelled, due to
currency fluctuations between the SDR and the US dollar towards the end of the project.

                       Table 4: Project costs by expenditure category (US$ million)
                                           Apprais-    % of       Revised     % of        Actual     % of
                                           al          total cost 2001        total cost             total
                                                                                                     cost
Civil works                                      17.30        35%       15.20       46%        15.95      49%
Equipment, furniture, supplies                   21.40        43%        8.40       25%         8.09      25%
Consultants' services & fellowships              11.00        22%        8.40       25%         7.58      23%
Operating Costs                                                0%        1.00        3%         1.20       4%
Total                                            49.70       100%       33.00      100%        32.82     100%



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
38. This report concurs with QAG's 2004 assessment in rating sustainability Likely, based on the strength
of government commitment to the sector, active leadership by the Ministry of Education, and increasing
donor support to education in response to this commitment. Education is considered the first priority in the
government's 5-year plans and PRSP. The prospects for financial sustainability are reasonably good,
despite fiscal difficulties facing the country as a whole from the projected decline in oil revenues.
Government commitment is reflected in the 21% share of education in total public expenditures. Fiscal
projections conducted for the EFA FTI proposal show that the education system is fiscally sustainable with
continued donor support, while the EFA partnership is addressing efficiency issues. The proposed system
for physical maintenance of school buildings and equipment was neglected under the project. This function,
which now falls primarily to local authorities, is also on the EFA partnership agenda. Sustainability of the
progress made in girls' access is supported by the successful experience of the program for training female
teachers from rural areas.

39. The recently strengthened role of the Ministry of Education vis-à-vis the project unit, is an indication
of both commitment and capacity in the Ministry for sustaining project benefits. The growing partnership
in the sector between the government, donors, and communities, as evidenced by the Partnership
Declaration signed in 2004, is helping to introduce major education reforms aimed at promoting more
efficient use of resources, and expanding access, especially of girls. This approach is providing technical
support to the Ministry of Education to further improve its implementation capacity within a more
transparent environment. The on-going analytical work on secondary education is to be followed by an
IDA-funded project, in line with the CAS, to build on the ESIP experience and expedite improvements in
girls' secondary education.




                                                       - 13 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
40. The recurrent costs of staffing and operating the new facilities provided through the project are already
incorporated in the budgets of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Technical and Vocational
Education and Training respectively, which are responsible for on-going management and administration.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
41. Bank performance in project preparation was Highly Unsatisfactory, due to unrealistic and excessively
complex project design, management and implementation arrangements (see section 3.5).

7.2 Supervision:
42. Supervision, which improved progressively over the course of the project, is rated Satisfactory overall.
The QAG QSA6 Assessment in September 2004 rated supervision Satisfactory for the preceding three
years and cited the ESIP as a rare example of a weak project that had been in the portfolio for more than
five years and had been salvaged by innovative and dedicated supervision. Supervision Inputs and
Processes ­ in particular "the quality, commitment and proactiveness of the Task Team that also benefited
from strong management support" ­ were rated Highly Satisfactory by QAG.

43. Early weaknesses in supervision included turnover of Task Managers, resulting in shifts of direction
and contributing to the deficiencies in documentation. Strong efforts were made to rationalize the project
management arrangements but with only partial success. The revisions at Mid-Term -- cutting back on
selected components -- were an improvement, but many of the initial weaknesses remained and the
opportunity for a more radical restructuring at this stage was missed. From 2000, the Bank was more
proactive and much more successful in addressing project management and implementation issues,
decentralizing staff with strong implementation skills to the field and working with the project staff on a
day-to-day basis. The Bank demonstrated flexibility and good judgment in agreeing to modifications,
including the allocation of additional funds to rural girls schools and two extensions of the closing date to
allow completion of these and the community colleges.

44. Neglect of M&E was a major shortcoming in Bank supervision throughout the project. The original
plan was not viable and no effort was made to use, revise or replace it. A new plan was clearly warranted
when the project was revised at Mid-Term but this was not attended to then or subsequently. Nevertheless,
M&E was consistently rated Satisfactory in PSRs. Outputs were monitored adequately in the context of
supervision missions but outcomes and impacts were not addressed until the end of 2003, when a
supervision mission aimed to gather data and identify relevant indicators; the mission was constrained at
this stage by lack of baseline information and the generally poor quality of available data. The tracer study
conducted in 2004 on completion for the community colleges component provided valuable information.
Overall, however, the imperative of dealing with immediate implementation and fiduciary issues claimed
priority in supervision efforts.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
45. Overall, Bank performance is rated moderately Satisfactory. Despite the serious weaknesses in project
design and lack of progress in the first years of implementation, sustained proactive efforts on the part of
the Bank team after mid-term, strongly supported by management, made it possible to bring the project
ultimately to a successful conclusion. The Bank used good judgment in being flexible when this was
appropriate, and in posting to the country office an experienced task team leader with a track record in
implementation.




                                                     - 14 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
46. Borrower performance in preparation is rated Satisfactory. The government was strongly committed to
the goals of the project and to participatory processes in project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
47. Progress on implementation was impeded by the turnover of Ministers of Education, and by slowness
on the part of the government to take action to address the constraints. Cumbersome processes for approval
of project expenditures by the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Development Planning contributed to
delays in disbursements. The project management difficulties were finally resolved in 2001 through
proactivity on the part of the Minister of Education who decided to consolidate the administration of
education projects in one Credit Administration Unit (CAU) and give the Ministry a more direct role in
overseeing and coordinating implementation activities. Commitment to the goals of the project was
demonstrated through the government's decision to finance construction of Sana'a Community College
through the national budget when this could not be done through the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
48. Project management until 2001 was very weak. A full year was taken to hire subproject directors.
Coordination was very poor between CU project staff and with the Ministry of Education, and the
expansion of CU staffing was not adequately controlled. Procurement was particularly weak and some
procurement activities were assigned to non-procurement specialists. When administration was transferred
to the CAU, procurement filing continued to be unacceptable. However, the CAU made exceptional efforts
to address the problems, with proactive support from the Country Office. The post-procurement review,
carried out in June, 2004, by an independent international consultant, rated the project procurement system
"good." Independent audits and the review carried out by the Loan Department in October 2003,
consistently found the project financial management system to be sound.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
49. Performance of the Borrower improved greatly over the latter part of the project and is rated
moderately Satisfactory overall.

8. Lessons Learned

50. Problem projects that suffer from weak initial design can be turned around ­ given concerted efforts
by both the Borrower and the Bank -- but there are costs. Three factors together made it possible to bring
the ESIP to a successful conclusion: committed Borrower leadership with a strong Minister of Education;
consolidation of the project unit under expert management with its role restricted to administration (project
procurement, finance and reporting) while the Ministry took a stronger role in policy setting and
coordination; and decentralization of the Bank's TTL and procurement officer to the field, with strong
backing from management, allowing for proactive and continuous supervision. But the costs were
substantial ­ in management and supervision resources, delays, and re-direction of investments.

51. In difficult institutional conditions, it is especially important to match project ambitions and design
not only to borrower priorities but also to sector capacity and broader public sector conditions. This
project presented an extreme example of a common defect in design of education projects ­ excessive
complexity. When capacity is very constrained: (i) project design needs to be kept simple and focused on
selected, feasible, priority activities; (ii) project management and implementation arrangements should also
be simple, with essential training conducted before effectiveness; (iii) building flexibility into project design
is not necessarily an advantage ­ it can increase the onus on project management and supervision; and (iv)
creation of a parallel agency (such as the ESIP CU) is not a viable substitute for capacity in the Ministry of



                                                        - 15 -

Education -- especially when project ambitions include systemic reform. The ESIP also yielded positive
lessons on what can work in these conditions: involving community and local institutions through
Community Participation Units; strengthening the role of the MOE and confining functions of the project
unit to project administration; and locating a strong Bank TTL and international fiduciary staff in the field.

52. The challenges for improving education quality and efficiency should not be underestimated and the
results of interventions cannot be assumed. A new and more realistic approach is needed to identifying
priority interventions and monitoring their effectiveness. The ESIP was successful in supporting expansion
of enrollments but underestimated the constraints to improving education quality and efficiency. The
requirements for curriculum renewal were greatly underestimated. Efforts to improve quality through
curriculum, materials, equipment, teacher training, and central management, met with constraints in
coordination, supervision, and monitoring, depending on sector capacity and on the wider public sector
environment. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of many ESIP interventions, and the lessons they might have
yielded, are unknown because the project lacked a monitoring plan that was locally owned and matched to
local capacity.

53. The development of secondary education faces it own specific challenges that cannot be approached
in the same way as basic education. Efforts through the ESIP to improve schooling quality by reducing
overcrowding in urban secondary schools (by building more classrooms) were quickly overtaken by the
pressures of population growth and basic completion rates. Improving the quality and relevance of upper
secondary education in these conditions (open enrollment for basic school completers, GERs of 70-90% in
urban areas, much lower but rapidly increasing enrollment rates in rural areas) presents difficult policy
trade-offs, with the need to address issues of student selection and/or alternative pathways to meet the needs
of diverse groups of students.

54. The Community Colleges component yielded several lessons for post-secondary training in Yemen: (i)
fellowships for tutor training should be conducted within the region whenever possible, to avoid the need
for extensive language training, and to increase the likelihood that trainees will return to the country; (ii)
continuing to attract high quality applicants may depend on accreditation of programs, with potential
routes to further or higher education, requiring in turn more coordination between the Ministries of TVET
and Higher Education; (iii) early beneficiary participation is needed to ensure that courses are matched to
local demand and that equipment and space needs are correctly identified. At Aden Community College,
handover of the new facilities met with some complaints and requests for modifications. As a result of this
experience, for the Sana'a College, beneficiaries were assigned responsibility for identifying needs from the
outset, with the help of TA provided by the project, and the handover was smooth.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This ICR was found acceptable by the Borrower whose own report is included in Section 10 below.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                                     - 16 -

       10. Additional Information


                                              REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                          MINISTRY OF EDUCATION

                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

                                                       for the

                          EDUCATION SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT (ESIP)


                                             ESIP-ICR Cr. 2570/YEM

                                                  March 12, 2005

1. Project Description

1.1    Background

In the early 1990's, the need for programs for human development including education was growing in Yemen.
The re-unification of North and South Yemen in 1990 and the Gulf crisis, which followed leading to the return of
a huge number of Yemeni immigrants, were among the main reasons behind that urge. On the other hand,
economic prosperity was predicted due to a surge in oil explorations, which triggered prospects for increase in
revenues. All that led to exert more efforts towards the improvement of the underdeveloped education system of
Yemen, making it possible to address limitation in access and quality.

In January 1992, a National Reform Program that was approved by the Yemeni Parliament, emphasized the need
for active population policy and called for a more effective education system. With respect to education and
training, the program gave priority to increase female participation, reduce illiteracy among adult population and
improve quality of outputs The government education policy that was reflected in it's National Reform Program
tackled the major issues facing the education sector. The strategy called for improving the quality of basic and
secondary education, increasing the enrollment of females, expanding education facilities in underserved areas,
strengthening vocational training and technical education and diversifying the output of higher education.
Emphasis of educational development was on institutional buildings, policy formulation and promoting the
involvement of the private sector.

Furthermore, the institutional framework was setup to help capacity to plan, implement and sustain reform and
change through a) Establishing the Project Development Monitoring Agency (PDMA), which will perform
traditional IDA functions; b) Institutional development of concerned sub-sector entities; c) Establishment of a
governance structure for the community college system through the creation of High Community Collage Council;
and d) Establishment of mechanisms for the identification of key sector issues in each change area, formulation of
strategies for addressing these issues and design and implementation of relevant subprojects.

The IDA lending strategy in Yemen showed at that time great interest in helping the Yemeni government to
improve quality of education and learning achievement in both primary and secondary schools. As well as, to
increase educational access mainly for girls in less developed rural areas. The concerned IDA missions had to
meet MOE senior officials before World Bank specialists started the design of the project and its sub-components



                                                           - 17 -

1.2 Project Objectives

The primary objective of the project was to assist the government in implementing its Education Sector Policy
Reforms and improving Yemen human resources development capacity to meet the emerging needs of the
Economy. This would be achieved through implementing a Planned Change Program, which includes major sector
policy objectives: (i) enhance the learning achievements of secondary students with special emphasis on science
and mathematics education and quality of teaching (ii) improve the access of females to secondary education; and;
(iii) establish labor market oriented two-year secondary education programs covering business, commerce and
industry.

1.3 Project Components

Eight components comprised project objectives; (i) Physical Facilities: improve the physical conditions necessary
for effective teaching and learning in secondary schools, (ii)Teacher Performance: upgrade the effectiveness of
teachers in secondary education to enhance learning achievement, (iii) Curriculum Development: establish a
sustainable curriculum development process responsive to changing needs with regards to science, mathematics
and environment education and development of textbooks and teacher guides, (iv) School Management: improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of school administration in order to improve policy maker resource and student
learning achievements at all levels, (v) Learning Resources: expand students' access to a wide variety of
affordable learning resources and to access the reliability and sustainability of providing emerging education
technology applications in Yemen, (vi) Evaluation: improve the reliability, comparability and validity of the
students assessment system and introduce Comprehensive Achievement Tests (CAT I & II) in grades 9 and 12,
(vii) Improving Female Access to Secondary Schools: expand female access to secondary schools in
underserved areas, (viii) National Community Colleges System: establish a National Community Colleges
System to meet community and regional needs for Middle Level Manpower.

2. Project Planning, Implementation and Impact

2.1 Achievements and Outputs

2.1.1 Enhancing the learning achievements of secondary students with special emphasis on
       science and mathematics education and quality of teaching

ESIP has partly contributed to the improvement of Secondary Student Learning Environment in terms of the
following:
Physical Facilities: 40 existing secondary schools have benefited from 330 additional classrooms that were built
to reduce overcrowding rates in secondary school classrooms. All forty schools were adequately equipped with
furniture, laboratories, libraries and sanitation facilities. Additional classrooms were built mostly in urban areas.
Other schools in urban and rural areas have benefited from furniture, laboratories, libraries and sanitation
facilities. This intervention helped a lot in reducing the number of students per classroom and improved the
education quality but for limited years as the schools have attracted more new students.

Teacher Performance: Summer school courses have been held annually for unqualified teachers in secondary
schools in five different governorates namely Hadramout, Abyan, Ibb, Albaydha and Shabwa. More than 3100
unqualified teachers of science and mathematics were trained. Learning materials and modules were developed.
Teaching needs were surveyed. However, quality of learning materials has not yet been tested and performance of
teachers has not been evaluated. Five training centers in five governorates were provided with education



                                                              - 18 -

technology facilities to sustain training skills acquired.

Curriculum Development: Curriculum development has been carried out to strengthen institutional capacity
building of MOE and Sana'a University. The process of developing new curriculum, textbooks and teacher guides
involved a number of specialists and professionals from Education Research Development Centre (ERDC) and
professors from Education faculties of Sana'a University. This is in addition to 72 resource persons.
Discussions were carried out at district and governorate levels. Adequate number of textbooks copies were
published and distributed to secondary schools in the academic year 2003/2004. Special concentration was put on
science & mathematics subjects.

It must be noted that such curricula are to be tested and may be modified through field feedback. Nevertheless,
the new curricula were meant to promote active learning and creative thinking. It might be worth mentioning that
other donors have been contributing to sustain such efforts. USAID for example are carrying out training
courses through EDC on learner-based teaching and the use of computer in enhancing self-learning process.

School Management: This component is of two dimensions. The first has been targeted to upgrade the skills and
knowledge of headmasters/ headmistress, inspectors and supervisors in secondary schools. This has been
developed through a contract with ERDC where a school management manual was developed. A number of
workshops were organized, findings were analyzed and a draft manual was developed and reviewed. The final
draft finalized and approved by the ministry and ten thousand copies were distributed. A number of training
sessions were organized to selective number of headmasters, deputies and inspectors. This is to improve the
quality of school management at school level, district, governorate and central levels. Due to the high demand on
this manual MOE is planning to re-produce a number of manuals enough to cover all the schools.

The second dimension is orientated towards the establishment of an Education Management Information System
(EMIS), which is to improve the efficiency of planning and decision making. As well as evaluating educational
inputs, and outputs in a modern electronic system. That is to be operated at central and governorate levels. ESIP
financed nation-wide education surveys in collaboration with MOE and Central Statistics Organization (CSO).
The collected data was coded; the reports were written and the process was externally evaluated. 1998 survey is
used in analyzing the education system in Yemen and was a good base to design several education projects
financed from local budget and different donor including world bank projects. In addition, the 1998 survey data
was used to produce the first school mapping for the first time in Yemen and educational maps were prepared for
eight governorates. Basic Education Expansion Project (BEEP) targeted governorates were identified making use
of the survey data. However, providing equipments and improving MIS in the ministry was not successful as the
MOE staff was not deeply involved in planning and the ignorance of the training and software needs of the
department of MIS.
Learning Resources: Although the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) has put more emphasis and much attention to
modern teaching facilities, which involve higher costs such as media resource centre and the installation of
computers and other related equipment in schools, intervention had been limited to procurement of science
laboratories and kits, library books, computer and audio visual equipment. All schools implemented by ESIP,
either to reduce classroom overcrowding or to increase female access to secondary education were provided with
the required furniture and equipment. It must be noted that this intervention helped improving the quality and
MOE is planning to sustain the efforts to obtain other teaching and learning resources in order to improve the
quality of education in a regular and continuous manner.

Evaluation: The reform of school examination and the evaluation of student educational achievement aim at
strengthening MOE institutional capacity. By carrying out this task, ESIP has contributed to supply the so called
General Department of "Evaluation and Guidance" at the time with two computer networks in order to improve its
performance when conducting basic and secondary nation-wide examinations. A guide for the assessment of


                                                           - 19 -

student school achievement has also been developed in collaboration with ERDC to assist teachers and concerned
departments. An Assessment Manual was also developed and distributed to one hundred schools in Ibb and
Sana'a governorates. 50 copies were printed and distributed. There is high demand on the manual and MOE is
considering reprinting and distributing number of this manual. Although the manual seams to be very useful it's its
implications on the examination system should be studied to improve quality assurance measures.

From the above­mentioned achieved outputs, one might conclude that ESIP's rate of achievement has been
satisfactory regarding the first objective. Nevertheless, a number of objective measures such as high rates of
population growth and inadequate number of available schools for concerned age group need to be reconsidered.
Moreover, one should make it clear that qualitative improvement in this regard is a long lasting process and not
easily contained. This is probably why MOE sector policy shows great concern maintaining sustainability of
such achievements through exerting continuous efforts to attract foreign donors to invest more through mutual
relations. This is mainly because quality improvement remains an ambitious target to reach.

2.1.2 Improvement of Female Access to Secondary Education

Construction of 10 Female Secondary Schools: 10 secondary schools were constructed, fully equipped and
furnished in 10 governorates; Al-Mahweet, Amran, Taiz, Baidha, Shabwa, Aden, Mareb, Hajjah and Sayoun.
These schools consisted of 109 classrooms of 50 students per class capacity providing 5450 student places/seats.
School buildings also contained offices, laboratories, library rooms, stores, buffets, sanitation facilities, high
boundary walls, and at two locations; female teachers' dormitories were also constructed. In addition to these
schools, a number of additional classrooms were constructed in existing girls' schools in 8 other governorates. No
doubt those schools has attracted female students and has a very good impact in rising the enrolment in basic
education in the surrounding areas.

Maintaining Parents Support: Systematic and regular visits to locations of girls' secondary schools were
conducted. Community Participation Units were evolved. Strong coordination relations with women societies,
school administration and local councils were sustained; and mothers' councils were established. These are to
sustain efforts and encourage parents to participate morally and substantially in the education of their daughters
and create positive attitudes towards the continuation of girls' education beyond the first cycle of general
education (i.e. beyond primary schooling).

Construction of 50 New Female Secondary Schools: In consistent with the preplanned objective, ESIP has
added another 50 new female secondary schools to be constructed in rural areas. All the schools have been
successfully completed, however some minor components in 9 schools have been canceled as it was not ready by
the date of project closing date. Most of the schools are operated as secondary female schools, some are operated
as basic 1-9 and will start to operate as secondary as soon as students reach grad 10. It is expected that those
school will increase enrolment at secondary and basic levels.

The Training of Female Teachers: Although this activity has been developed under BEEP's Preparation Fund
entitled "the preparation of rural female teacher". Yet, this serves to enhance the objective of ESIP to increase
females' participation rate in secondary schooling. The Female Teacher Preparation Program in rural areas was
designed to make female teachers of science and mathematics subjects more available in rural areas than ever
before. The total number of students enrolled is 258, where most of them have been trained in teaching the
subjects of Science, Mathematics and English.

Home-Learning Program: Under component (vii), ESIP has constructed furnished and equipped two
home-based learning centers in Sanhan and Bani Hushaish districts in Sana'a Governorate. This was designed to
help adult females, who were deprived of educational opportunities, to have a second chance to get into the


                                                            - 20 -

system.

The centers were constructed in collaboration with local communities. However weak cooperation of the
community resulted in higher costs than what was allocated.

The teaching strategy allows students to study at school for 3 days per week; and at home for another three days.
Curriculum material covering all subjects has been developed, but has not been approved by MOE as there was
no follow up. Both the centers are now operating as schools.

2.1.3 Establishment of Labor Market Post Secondary Education

The Government issued a law by which a system of community colleges is to be established and two CC in Sana'a
and Aden are thus identified as pilot colleges.

Curriculum development, teacher training programs and instruments for National Community College Council
(NCCC) and college management were developed by Consortium of International Development (CID). 34
teachers have completed their training at the MA/MS level and 2 others are at PhD degree in the USA. 21 other
teachers have completed their training at the MA/MS level at Jordanian Universities.

Both Community College building have been completed (Sana'a financed by the government). Equipment and
furniture have also been procured and delivered to the colleges.

Furniture and equipment for the High Community Collage Council and Sana'a CC have also been procured and
delivered.

Both collage graduates had secured jobs just after graduation. The government has taken decision to build more
collages in various parts of the country.

2.2 Organization and Project Implementation within the MOE

The original design of the project implementation management structure was too complicated. It required the
establishment of more than four different bodies. Project Development Monitoring Agency (PDMA), Higher
Council, Project Development Unit and Policy Board consisting of four members for each change area in addition
to PIU (existing at the MOE). Each component of the project had subprojects (sub-components) and therefore,
each subproject will have a Director. For this reason the first attempt to implement the project reached to a dead
end with no steps made after six months of operation. Decision reached by IDA in collaboration with the borrower
to alter the implementation arrangement and a Coordination Unit (CU), and a staring committee known as "Credit
Higher Council" comprising of representatives of several concerned ministries and under the chairmanship of the
Minister of Education was established. A Director for each subprojects (sub-components) have been selected.

The Higher Council has been functioning to supervise, monitor, follow-up and evaluate progress made by the
project during implementation phases. It has also the authority of approving annual action plans presented by the
Coordination Unit (CU).

Project director / coordinator maintained effective cooperation and coordination between the government and
various IDA agencies concerned with project implementation and evaluation. Project coordinator has also carried
out all day-to-day operations to ensure adequate performance rate of staff and personnel of the CU.

In 2001, the government and the Bank agreed to consolidate all PIU's of the education sector in one unit.


                                                           - 21 -

Accordingly, the CU was integrated in the Basic Education Expansion Project Credit Administration Unit. The
BEEP Credit Administration Unit took over while the disbursement level was only 50% and many activities have
been not yet started, namely the 50 rural female secondary schools the furnishing and equipping the Sana'a and
Aden community colleges. These activities and others incomplete have been accomplished by the project closing
date.

3. Assessment of the World Bank, The Borrower and Technical Assistance
Performance during Preparation and Implementation

3.1 Assessment of Bank Performance during Project Implementation
The World Bank has contributed effectively in the preparation and identification period. However, the original
design of the project has neglected serious institutional and technical capacity made available to the MOE and
PIU. Nevertheless IDA's visiting & resident missions in collaboration with leading figures of concerned ministries
have helped the government to develop a more realistic and practical implementation strategy for ESIP. Those
efforts contributed in the achievement of ESIP's main objectives in quite a satisfactory degree of performance,
which ultimately resulted in notable impact on current and future educational and development policies.

Through regular mid-term and annual visits, IDA missions made their valuable contributions that eased
implementation procedures and submitted important consultancies and advice to activate implementation rates of
performance. There were relatively minor delays in responding to the government discussion. However, decisions
made by IDA, missions as well as consultants were positive and adequate and made good contributions to
satisfactory achievements.

3.2 Assessment of Borrower Performance during Project Implementation

The government has maintained regular and steady cooperation with various IDA missions, experts and technical
departments attached to the development and implementation of ESIP throughout the life span of the project.
Jointly with IDA agencies, it has dealt with contingencies, misunderstandings or hick-ups successfully and
attentively. An exception was the taxation guidelines related to consultants who expected tax-free assignments
under IDA guidelines.

3.3 Assessment of Efficiency and Quality of Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during
Project Implementation

The overall standard of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during ESIP implementation has been
featured with intimacy, mutual cooperation, transparency and authenticity. Such features are to enhance and
deepen future mutual cooperation in education and development efforts, which will certainly achieve prosperity
and progress in the Republic of Yemen in return.

3.4 Assessment of Institutions, Firms and Consultants on Project Implementation (cost, benefit)

ESIP has had to include Institutions, Firms and Consultants in executing its activities. Most of these maintained
satisfactory degree of achievement with regard to the realization of ESIP's main objectives. Nevertheless, few of
them were costly with little benefit in return.

Cases of negative implications to project overall rate of performance could be interpreted in terms of little
observation of Bank guidelines or ad hoc decisions taken by decision- maker design intern periods. The studies on
MOE institutional and structural modifications at central and governorate levels could be seen an evident example
in this regard.


                                                            - 22 -

4. Overall Project Assessment and Lessons learned

4.1 Project Assessment

IDA Projects could have been of greater impact than the situation seems to suggest at present. This is, however, if
developed within a more integrative approach into Ministerial Master Plans.

Follow-up and evaluation should not be restricted to IDA mid-term and annual evaluation missions. It should also
depend on internal continuous evaluation. Evaluation mechanisms should also go side by side in an integrated
manner with those of the IDA. This will definitely improve performance and the quality of expected outputs.

Additional work required by technical departments of the ministry to serve the objectives of IDA projects, which
are administered by semi-independent units.

Instability caused by continuous changes of decision-makers within involved ministries is a source of instability
for project performance rate. Hence, this is expected to delay and slow-down project implementation rates.

In conclusion, ESIP's overall achievement rates are satisfactory. However, less change of decision makers, more
project integration into Ministerial Master Plans and effective continuous formal and informal follow-up are also
efficient mechanisms to insure higher performance rates for similar projects introduced in the future.

4.2 Lessons Learned

Personnel to join similar projects are required to take pre-service extensive short courses in areas such as project
management, World Bank financial guidelines and other related Issues. This is to ensure better quality outputs.

Specified limited consultancies are more cost effective then unspecified long-term consultancies.

Action areas tacked research are more useful and of positive impact on project activities implementation.

Projects of highly complicated, multi-dimensional components proved to be beyond the implementation technical
capacity of less developed countries. Simple projects of single dimension could have led to greater output than the
more expensive and ambitious ones.

ESIP's experience seems to suggest that simple and sector specified project is of more positive implications on
development than complicated and multi-dimension ones. Such a project could also be much closer to cost
effective approach.

Capital intensive project might not be practical within less developed countries, which suffers weak
technical/institutional capacity building. BEEP could be seen as a case at this point. This indicates that the lesson
has been learned. It must be noted, however, that future project implementation strategy should give more
authority to project director accompanied with adequate accountability measures and better incentives for higher
rates of productivity.

ESIP, being different in terms of the administration strategy adopted to implement, has faced a number of
difficulties to deal with technical department within ministries involved. This is probably because people often
resist accepting changes incidentally. However, the identification workshops carried out in four different
governorates eased the situation. In those workshops Ministries leading officials and practitioners at central


                                                            - 23 -

office governorate, district and school level attended

However, one must point out that personnel in various technical departments of concerned ministries are usually
overburdened with common duties, and or not pleased with their salaries, show little response in releasing
information or taking action to help project staff when requested. This is because they believe that the additional
work to be performed without getting anything in return is unfair administrative and technical duties imposed on
them. Nevertheless, additional payment for extra work or incentives for ministry employees involved contradict
with IDA guidelines. This situation quite often hinders and delays implementation performance rate of credit
administration/coordinating unit. Complaints are usually repeated by most civil servants, who were requested to
help in similar events. The lesson to be learned in this regard is the necessity to find a way out of Snell an
everlasting implementation evident drawback.

5. Conclusions

ESIP is a project that consisted of eight components to achieve three main objectives. Its achievement rate was
described as satisfactory. A number of drawbacks and difficulties were encountered. Mutual cooperation and
coordination between the Borrower and the Bank mitigated most of those difficulties. ESIP has led to significant
lessons that are to benefit future practices in Yemen and other countries with similar development features.




                                                            - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators*

                        Indicator                                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Average class size in urban secondary schools             Overcrowding of urban secondary schools has not been
                                                          reduced. The MOE School Census indicates that average
                                                          urban class ("section") size in Grades 10-12 increased
                                                          annually from 45.3 students in 1999/00 to 51.4 in
                                                          2003/04.
Female enrolments in Grades 10-12                         Female enrolments in Grades 10-12 increased by 83%
                                                          from 93,780 in 1998/99 to 161,624 in 2002/03. Over the
                                                          same period, the share of girls in total Grades 10-12
                                                          enrolments increased from 24.9% to 29.4%. New places
                                                          created by the ESIP amounted to more than half the
                                                          increase in girls' enrolment in rural areas.
Employment rate of Community College graduates            A tracer study conducted under the project in September
                                                          2004 found that over 80% of the first year of CC
                                                          graduates were employed.


*Outcome/impact indicators were not established for the project or monitored during implementation. The above
are identified and reported for the purpose of the ICR.

Output Indicators**

                        Indicator                                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Through community participation in schools, nine girls' With community involvement, through Community
secondary schools constructed, furnished and equipped inParticipation Units, 60 girls' secondary schools
rural areas. Community assisting in teacher selection andconstucted, furnished and equipped in rural areas.
provided land.
A pilot learning program for rural girls who have         Two pilot female educaton centers were constructed and
completed primary education implemented by offering       curricula and materials developed but the program was
home-based learning programs in selected rural areas.     dropped and the centers are now used as schools.
Promote parents' and community acceptance of girls'       This program was judged to be unnecessary.
secondary education through a pilot information
education and communication program about six districts
where girls' enrolment in secondary schooling is low.
Governance framework for Community Colleges               The legal and governance framework was established as
established; labor market needs analysis conducted;       planned and programs and teacher needs specified on the
curriculum and teacher needs specified.                   basis of labor market analysis.
Two Community Colleges established. TA contract           The two community colleges were established as
signed and candidates selected for faculty training.      planned. Tracer study indicates >80% employment rate
                                                          of first year's graduates.
Improved learning environment through reduction of        Overcrowding of urban schools was reduced only
over-crowding, provision of equipment particularly for    temporarily by the construction of additional 335
science and math.                                         classrooms. Science, math, and other equipment was
                                                          provided as planned.
Improved teacher performance through development of       Training modules were developed and 3,100 teachers
training modules and provision of summer schools and      were trained in science, math and English through
school-based training.                                    summer schools.
Syllabus developed for Grades 7-12 in Bilogy, chemistry, Grades 7-12 math and science syllabus was developed as



                                                       - 25 -

Physics and Mathematics.                                  planned and new books were also developed for
                                                          distribution to all schools.
Upgraded skills and effectiveness of headmasters,         Training manuals were developed and 10,000 copies
inspectors and supervisors through training programs      were distributed; their impact on skills and effectiveness
and manuals and improving sector policy development; was not assessed. ESIP contributed to development of the
and establishment of a Management Information System. EMIS through TA for design and through provision of
                                                          equipment.
Improved learning resources through the provision of      Library books and audio visual equipment were provided
library books and audio visual materials to schools       to all the schools that benefited from construction work
benefiting from project financing.                        under the project.
Student evaluation school manual developed.               The assessment manual for schools was developed and
                                                          50,000 copies were distributed to teachers. The manual
                                                          continues to be in demand in schools.


** Although the above indicators are those supplied through SAP as the project's outcome/impact indicators, most
are output indicators (or not readily measurable). They were not monitored or reported on in PSRs.




                                                       - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Secondary Education                                      17.90             7.47              42
2. Female Participation                                      4.90           10.55              215
3. School-Based Subprojects                                  0.80             0.00               0
4. Community Colleges                                       14.80           12.71               86
5. Project Monitoring and Management                         0.50             1.71             342
6. Future Subprojects                                        4.10             0.38               9



Total Baseline Cost                                         43.00           32.82
 Physical Contingencies                                      4.30
 Price Contingencies                                         2.40
                         Total Project Costs                49.70           32.82
                  Total Financing Required                  49.70           32.82


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            6.70           10.00         0.00          0.00         16.70
                                  (4.00)           (4.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (8.00)
2. Goods                           15.70            0.60         5.10          0.00         21.40
                                  (11.00)          (0.50)      (4.10)          (0.00)       (15.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        11.60          0.00         11.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (9.40)          (0.00)       (9.40)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           22.40           10.60        16.70          0.00         49.70
                                  (15.00)          (4.50)      (13.50)         (0.00)       (33.00)
Figures may not add up due to rounding.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           15.73        0.22           0.00        15.95
                                  (0.00)          (14.74)      (0.21)         (0.00)       (14.95)


                                                - 27 -

    2. Goods                                5.54               2.18              0.38             0.00              8.10
                                           (5.54)             (2.11)            (0.34)           (0.00)            (7.99)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              7.58             0.00              7.58
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.58)           (0.00)            (7.58)
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              1.20             0.00              1.20
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.20)           (0.00)            (1.20)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total                                5.54              17.91              9.38             0.00              32.83
                                           (5.54)            (16.85)            (9.33)           (0.00)           (31.72)
  l Figures may not add up due to rounding.
  l Original Credit amount is SDR 23.9 million and the initial USD equivalent was $32.03 million. The
        equivalent USD amount towards the end of the grace period is $33.04 million.
   l    A balance of some $1.3 million will be cancelled from the Credit and this is due to currency
        fluctuations between SDR and USD towards the end of the project.

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
       project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Category of Expenditure (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
Category of Expenditure             Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.
1. Buildings and Civil          8.40         3.30         5.60       14.95         1.00       0.00      178.0      30.3     0.0
Works
2. Equipment, Software         15.80         3.20         2.40        7.99         0.10       0.00       50.6       3.1     0.0
and Furniture
3. Technical Assistance         8.80         2.20         0.00        7.58         0.00       0.00       86.1       0.0     0.0
4. Incremental Operating        0.00         0.00         0.00        1.20         0.00       0.00       0.0        0.0     0.0
Costs
Total Financing                33.00         8.70         8.00       31.73         1.11       0.00       96.2      12.8     0.0

   Figures may not add up due to rounding.




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Preparation/Preappraisal
              05/06/1993               9    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (3),
                                            ECONOMIST (2),
                                            IMPLEMENTATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1),
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1),
                                            OPERATIONS ADVISOR (1),
                                            CHIEF ADMINISTRATION
                                            OFFICER (1)
              07/17/1993               5    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (3),
                                            ECONOMIST (1),
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/17/1993             11     EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                            (3), ECONOMIST (2),
                                            IMPLEMENTATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1),
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1), ARCHITECT (1),
                                            CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              06/13/1995               4    COST & FINANCING SPEC.           S               S
                                            (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); TEACHER TRAINING
                                            SPEC. (1); EDUCATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              10/11/1995               3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U               S
                                            TEACHER TRAINING SPEC.
                                            (1); SR. EDUCATION SPEC. (1)
              03/13/1996               4    EDUCATION SPEC. (1); SR.         U               U
                                            EDUCATOR (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1); SR. EDUCATION
                                            SPEC. (1)
              06/12/1996               2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U               U
                                            SR.IMPLEMENTATION SP. (1)
              10/31/1996               3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U               U
                                            SR.EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                                            MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)
              06/02/1997               3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               U
                                            HR. PORTFOLIO MANAGER
                                            (1); RES.MSN.PROG.OFFICER
                                            (1)
              11/26/1997               4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                            HR PORTFOLIO MANAGER



                                             - 30 -

                      (1); PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                      TASK MANAGER (1)
      08/06/1998    6 SR. IMPLEMENTATION SP.       S    S
                      (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                      OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                      EMIS SPECIALIST (1)
      09/05/1999    1 EDUCATION MANAGEMENT         S    S
                      (1)
      11/25/1999    6 PRINCIPAL ED. ECONOMIS       S    S
                      (1); RESEARCH ANALYST (1);
                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                      ED. MANAGEMENT SPECIAL
                      (1); ARCHITECT (1);
                      PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
      09/25/2001    4 SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER       S    S
                      (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                      (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                      (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
      06/27/2002    3 TTL (1); OPERATIONS          S    S
                      ANALYST (1); PROGRAM
                      ASSISTANT (1)
      03/14/2003    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                      OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                      SR. PROCUREMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1); PROGRAM
                      ASSISTANT (1)
      10/26/2003    7 SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER       S    S
                      (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                      (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                      (1); FINANCE OFFICER (1);
                      FINANCE ANALYST (1);
                      EDUCATION ECONOMIST (1);
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)
      05/31/2004    1 SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER       S    S
                      (1)


ICR
      02/12/05      2 EDUCATION SPECIALIST         S    S
                      (1); OPERATIONS
                      ANALYST (1)




                      - 31 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Preparation/Preappraisal              N.A.                           100
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N.A.                           238
  Supervision                           N.A.                           542
  ICR                                   N.A.                            20
  Total                                                                900
N.A.: Not Available




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report
Development Credit Agreement
Planned Change Program 1994-2000, MOE, October 1993
Sector Development Policy Statement, MOE, October 1993
Amendments to DCA, dated May 1997, May 1998, April 2001
Planned Change Program Implementation Manuals
Mission Aide Memoires
Project Status Reports
Implementation Progress Reports
Mid-Term Implementation Assessment
QAG QA6 Quality of Supervision Report for Yemen ESIP, September 2004
Community Colleges Graduate Tracer Study/Survey, Peter Llewellyn, September 2004
Ministry of Education School Census and Statistical Reports
Yemen Labour Demand Survey, ILO, 2004




                                                 - 35 -

- 36 -

