The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
AS. 0- C(1
Report No. P-4395-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt26.O MILLION
FOR THE
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 24, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conients may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -  Colon (C)
US$1.00         -  C 51.2
C 1.00          -  US$0.019
US$1 million    -  C 51,200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                   =       10,000 n2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 -       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         -       0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =       2.20 pounds
1,000 kg = I metric ton (m ton) =        0.98 long ton
ACRONYMS
ADI      -  Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario (Agrarian Development
Institute).
ASBANA   -  Asociacion Bananera Nacional (National Banana Association).
BNCR     -  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica (National Bank of Costa Rica).
CATIE    -  Centro Agronomico Tropical para la Investigacion y Ensenanza
(Tropical Agricultural Research and Training Center).
CNP      -  Consejo Nacional de Produccion (National Production Council).
IDB      -  Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (Inter-American Development
Bank).
IICA     -  Instituto Inter-Americano de Cooperacion Agricola
(Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation).
JAPDEVA  -  Junta de Administracion Portuaria de Desarrollo de la Vertiente
Atlantica (Board for Administration of Ports and Development of
the Atlantic Basin).
MAG      -  Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia (Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock).
MIDEPLAN -  Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica (Ministry of
Planning and Political Economy).
MOPT     -  Ministerio de Obras Publicas Y Transportes (Ministry of Public
Works and Transportation).
SEPSA    -  Secretaria Ejecutiva de Planificacion Sectorial de Desarrollo
Agropecuario y de Recursos Naturales Renovables (Agricultural
Sector Planning Secretariat).
UNDICO   -  BNCR's Programs Direction and Coordination Unit.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Costa Rica.
Beneficiary:     Banco Nacional de Cnsta Rica (BNCR).
Loan Amount:     US$26 million equivalent.
Terms:           17 years including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending        The Borrower would relend to BNCR US$22.5 million equivalent
Terms:           of the Bank loan in Colones for a term of 17 years including
4 years of grace. BNCR would repay the Government the
principal plus interest, the latter equal to the market rate
that farmers would pay less a fixed spread to BNCR of 6
percent to cover subloan administration, technical
assistance and the lending risk on subloans. The Borrower
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
ObJective and    The principal objective of the proposed project is to expand
Description:     the production of agricultural exports in support of the
Government's economic recovery and structural adjustment
program. In order to achieve its principal objective, the
proposed project would: (a) provide agricultural credit for
financing the development of selected export crops,
including rehabilitation or replanting of about 4,500 ha and
new planting of about 2,500 ha of cocoa; (b) improve about
104 km of rural roads; (c) issue about 1,500 land titles;
(d) provide technical assistance to farmers; and
(e) strengthen project administration. Under the overall
coordination of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
(MIDEPLAN), the project would be implemented by the
following agencies: the Banco Nacional de Costa Rica, or
BNCR (credit); the Ministry of Public Works and
Transportation (roads); and the Agrarian Development
Institute (titling).
Benefits         The economic rate of return is estimated at about 18
and Risks:       percent, with incomes of beneficiaries projected to increase
by about 160 percent at full development. Foreign exchange
earnings over the assumed project life of 40 years are
estimated at about US$290 million. The principal risk would
stem from a slower than projected rate of adoption of the
technological packages for cocoa-coconut cultivation which
could reduce expected increases in export growth. To help
lessen this risk, BNCR would provide to the beneficiaries
intensive and sustained technical assistance, with the
assistance of an internationally recruited expert.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



-ii-
Project Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
-- ----US$ million)---
Credit                             28.2        7.1         35.3
Roads                               1.2        2.5          3.7
Land Titling                        0.6        0.1          0.7
Techuica. Assistance,
Project Admuaistration              1.3        0.5          1.8
Base Cost                    31.3       10.2         41.5
Contingencies:
Physical                         0.2        0.2           0.4
Expected Price Increases         0.9        0.7           1.6
Subtotal                      1.1        0.9          2.0
Total Cost                   32.4       11.1         43.5
=   ~~=            
Finaucing Plan:
Bank                               14.9       11.1         26.0
BNCR                                2.5       -             2.5
Governmeut                          4.0       -             4.0
Beneficiaries                      11.0       -            11.0
Total                        32.4       11.1         43.5
S            =
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
--               -(US$ million)-
Annual          0.7    2.9    4.0    4.6    4.6    4.6    3.2    1.4
Cumulative      0.7    3.6    7.6   12.2   16.8   21.4   24.6   26.0
Economic Rate
of Return: 18%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 5953-CR dated September 24, 1986.
MAP: IBRD 19391.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA FOR THE ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Costa Rica for the equivalent of US$ 26.0 million
in support of the Atlantico Agricultural Development Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A President's Report on the Structural Adjustment Loan (Report
No. P-3984-CR) was circulated to the Executive Directors on March 5, 1985.
Since approval of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) in April 1985,
several Bank sissions have visited Costa Rica to review progress for the
release of the Second Tranche and to update economic information. An
economic report entitled 'Costa Rica - Main Economic Problems and
Prospects" is expected to be circulated in November. Annex I summarizes
the main social and economic indicators.
Background
3.        During the 1960s and early 1970s, the economy grew rapidly, with
both agriculture and industry playing important roles. Export agriculture,
mainly coffee and bananas, provided the initial growth momentum, followed
by beef and sugar. Following Costa Rica's membership in the Central
American Common Market (CACM) in 1963, the manufacturing sector expanded
rapidly behind the high protection provided by the CACM incentive
framework. As a result, manufactured exports to this market grew
substantially.
4.        Economic growth was accompanied by substantial progress in health
and in other social sectors. Extensive social welfare programs and medical
care facilities were established, with widespread social security
coverage. The education system also expanded rapidly, with enrollment
ratios reaching about 100 percent in primary education, over 40 percent in
secondary education, and about 20 percent in universities. These
achievements, together with Costa Rica's strong democratic traditions have
contributed to social and political stability.
5.        The productive sectors lost their growth momentum after the
mid-1970s, reflecting inter alia the anti-export bias of the trade regime,
the uncontrolled growth of the public sector, inefficient financial
intermediatiou, an inadequate domestic savings effort, and a high debt
service burden. These structural weaknesses contributed substantially to
declining growth. Cyclical downturns in commodity prices amplified this
secular downward trend. As a result, GDP growth, which averaged about 5.5
percent in the 1960s and 1970s, became negative between 1980 and 1983.



-2-
The Emerging Crisis (1980-81)
6.        Confronted with a sharp deterioration in terms of trade in the
1970s, as coffee prices dropped and oil prices rose, the Government
followed expansionary domestic policies. The growing deficits in the
balance of payments and public finances were largely financed through
stepped-up external borrowing, especially from commercial banks at variable
interest rates.   The external public debt increased from about US$1
billion in 1978 to US$ 2.5 billion in 1981. By 1980 the colon had become
seriously overvalued, while continued uncertainties about economic policies
contributed to growing capital flight and loss of international reserves.
Although the Government finally allowed the colon to float by end 1980, the
situation reached crisis proportions during 1981, as GDP declined by 2.3
percent, the deficit in the current account of the balance of payments rose
to 15.8 percent of GDP, the non-financial public sector deficit reached
13.6 percent of GDP and inflation climbed to 37 percent. Faced with
rapidly increasing debt service obligations and depletion of reserves,
Costa Rica suspended debt service to all but multilateral creditors in
August 1981. In response, international commercial banks stopped all
voluntary lending to the country.
Stabilization Efforts in 1982-84
7.        By the time the Monge administration took office in May 1982,
Costa Rica was in the midst of its worst economic crisis since the 1930s,
with GDP falling by about 7.3 percent, and inflation still climbing rapidly
to about 90 percent. Public finances also continued to worsen, with the
overall deficit of the non-financial public sector, including Central Bank
losses, reaching 15.1 percent of GOP.
8.        Faced with this situation, the Government adopted an adjustment
program to restore a manageable external position and contain inflationary
pressures. The Government also resumed partial debt service payments to
foreign creditors. The IMF, in turn, approved a one-year standby prograr
for SDR 92.5 million, beginning in December 1982. The Government also
reachied debt rescheduling agreements in 1983, both with private banks and
official bilateral creditors under the Paris Club. As a result, the
economic and financial situation began to improve in 1983.   GDP grew by
3.4 percent.   Inflation fell to 33 percent.  The public sector deficit,
including Central Bank losses, declined to 8 percent of GDP (or 3.4
percent, excluding Central Bank losses). Capital repatriation started.
9.        Economic activity continued to expand in 1984, with GDP growing
by 7.5 percent on the basis of a reactivation of domestic demand.
Inflation decelerated to 12 percent.   However, excessively expansionary
domestic policies during the first part of the year, coupled with declining
capital inflows led to a new liquidity crisis and additional debt servicing
difficulties. Completion of negotiations for a new IMF stand by were also
delayed. A standstill arrangement, whereby debt service payments to
private banks were frozen in mid-June, disbursement of additional USAID
assistance, and the introduction of corrective fiscal actions in mid year
helped tide the country over these liquidity difficulties.



-3-
10.       Serious structural problems persisted in 1984.  Export growth was
sluggish, severely constraining the country's capacity to service its
foreign debt. Consumption was not yet in line with lower real income
levels. Public sector wages, after a decrease between 1980 and 1982, had
recovered in real terms. Private investment remained depressed.
Continued Stabilization Efforts and Medium-Term Strategy
11.       In response to this deterioration, the Government intensified its
stabilization efforts, reaching a new agreement with the IM4F in January
1985 on a 13-month standby program, starting from March 1985. The program
aimed at holding the current account deficit in the balance of payments to
9 percent of GDP in 1985, replenishing the net foreign reserve position of
the Central Bank by US$60 million, decreasing the deficit of the public
sector to 1.5 percent of GDP and the losses of the Central Bank to 4.3
percent of GDP.
12.       To complement its stabilization efforts, the Government also
developed a medium-term adjustment strategy based on the premise that
continued heavy reliance on traditional commodity exports and growth of
manufacturing within the CACM framework was no longer sufficient to sustain
a satisfactory rate of growth, and that new public sector programs would no
longer be used to stimulate the economy. The revised strategy therefore
focused on: (i) developing new exports to markets outside the CACM; (ii)
strengthening private sector initiatives; and (iii) reducing the size of
the public sector. The Bank supported this strategy with an US$80 million
SAL, which focused on actions to reform the trade regime, to reduce the
size and improve the management of the public sector, and to mobilize
external resources, while starting to improve the structure of the
country's debt. SAL I was envisaged by the Government and the Bank as the
first of a series of operations designed to bring about a restructuring of
the economy.
13.       To finance its stabilization and structural adjustment efforts,
the Government obtained substantial external financing from its major
donors totaling about US$370 million in new monies for 1985. In addition
to the US$80 million SAL and SDR 54 million from the IMF for the standby
arrangement, USAID provided US$160 million. Commercial banks agreed to a
new credit facility, amounting to US$75 million, and to reschedule 1985--86
principal obligations.   The Government also reached agreement through the
Paris Club to reschedule principal and other interest on official bilateral
debt falling due during 1985.
Structural Adjustment Program
14.       The Structural Adjustment Loan was declared effective in August
1985 following ratification by the Legislative Assembly. The First Tranche
of US$40 million was disbursed in September and the Second Tranche of US$40
million was released in June 1986.   (Memorandum to the Board dated July
22, 1986).
15.       Overall progress in meeting the specific conditions for release
of the Second Tranche was found to be satisfactory in respect to:   (i)
completing a review of the public sector investment program in 1985, with



-4-
investment expenditures remaining within the 6.5 percent of GDP ceiling;
(ii) implementing the program for the divestiture of CODESA enterprises;
and (iii) taking initial steps to prepare a program for modernization of
the industrial sector. With respect to the three other tranche conditions,
further reform of the tariff system, a freeze on public employment levels,
and a reduction in the deficit of the agricultural marketing agency or
National Production Council (CNP), progress was not satisfactory and
additional actions were taken by the Government to put the program back on
track prior to release of the second tranche. These actions included:
additional steps to reduce effective protection, including a phased
elimination of surcharges on final consumer goods and efforts within the
CACM framework to reduce high rates for textiles and garments; structural
reform to divest the public sector from the marketing of rice and sorghum
and price adjustments for basic grains to reduce CNP's deficit; and an
agreement on a plan of action to reduce public employment over the next
three years to the level of March 1984, as originally planned under the
Program.
Economic Developments in 1985
16.       Costa Rica's economic performance in 1985 presented a mixed
picture. Overall growth increased by a modest 1.2 percent, while inflation
accelerated moderately to 15 percent, reflecting developments in the
exchange rate and an increase in real wages. The current account of the
balance of payments deteriorated as exports declined and imports remained
at the 1984 levels.   As a result of these developments, the trade deficit
amounted to US$175.5 million in 1985. The current account deficit
increased to about US$295.0 million or 8.4 percent of GDP and was
substantially covered by large external borrowing and grants.   Gross loan
disbursements reached about US$323 million or about 9 percent of GDP, in
addition to official transfers of US$176 million or about 5 percent of
GDP.  Despite these large inflows, Costa Rica built up external arrears,
totalling about US$32 million by the end of the year.
17.       Public finances also worsened in 1985, with the deficit of the
non-financial public sector, including Central Bank losses, increasing from
6.6 percent in 1984 to an estimated 9.5 percent in 1985, mainly owing to
an increase in Central Bank losses to 8 percent of GDP. This deterioration
in public finances resulted largely from more expansionary monetary and
wage policies than called for inder the stand-by program, as the political
campaign intensified prior to the February 1986 elections. As a
consequence, Costa Rica was unable to complete the 1985/86 stand-by program
and make the two remaining purchases under the arrangement.
Medium-Term Development Prospects and Continued Adjustment Efforts
18.       Despite somewhat improved prospects for 1986, reflecting coffee
price increases and lower oil prices, Costa Rica's economy remains
vulnerable. Given the weak outlook for the main traditional exports; the
constraints on expanding the domestic and regional markets; the time needed
to develop new export industries; the country's high debt service
obligations even with further reschedulings, which limit savings available
for investment; and the need to restrict public expenditure growth,
garospects are mixed. However, appropriate stabilization and structural



-5-
adjustment policies and continued substantial external support, much of it
on concessional terms, should result in renewed growth over time. GDP
growth could average about 3 percent during 1987-90, assuming: (i) further
actions on the part of the Government to increase the efficiency of
investments and change relative prices to shift the composition of
investment from infrastructure to export-oriented and employment-intensive
sectors; and (ii) continued large capital inflows, including debt
reschedulings.
19.       The new Government, which took office in May 1986, has confirmed
the need for continued stabilization and medium term adjustment efforts.
As a first step, it has initiated discussions with the IMF on a new
stand-by arrangement. This program is expected to focus on fiscal
restraint, including a reduction in Central Bank losses. The new
Government has also initiated discussions on further rescheduling
arrangements with its commercial bank creditors, and will seek a new Paris
Club arrangement, once agreement in principle is reached with the IMF. The
Government is also initiating work on a second phase of its medium term
structural adjustment program. Such a program would need to continue the
reforms started under SAL I, while also focusing on improving financial
intermediation and reform of the incentive system for agriculture.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.       Costa Rica's medium- and long-term external public debt
(outstanding and disbursed) repayable in foreign currency as of December
31, 1984 was US$3.4 billion, US$4.1 billion if undisbursed commitments are
included. At end 1984, the Bank Group held 6.6 percent of the outstanding
and disbursed debt repayable in foreign currency. Of the other major
lenders, IDB held 8.3 percent; CABEI, 2.6 percent; bond holders and private
banks, 55.1 percent; United States Government held about 10.2 percent, and
Venezuela about 7 percent. Other bilateral debt made up the balance.
Non-guaranteed private debt as of December, 1985, is estimated at US$550
million, including short-term debt.
21.       In 1984, the debt service ratio on a cash basis equalled 33
percent. The debt service ratio in 1985 after the rescheduling agreed both
with the international commercial banks as well as with the bilateral
lenders under the Paris Club is estimated to equal 34 percent. Without
rescheduling, the debt service ratio would have been 61 percent.
22.       Assuming that the authorities formulate an effective
stabilization program, carry out and continue to deepen the structural
reforms initiated in 1985, and reschedule principal payments with
international commercial banks and bilateral lenders under the Paris Club,
creditworthiness indicators should improve by 1990. The debt service ratio
would decline from 37 percent in 1986 to 26 percent by 1991 (or 54 percent
and 42 percent, respectively, in the absence of further debt
reachedulings). Interest payments would decline from 24 percent of exports
of goods and services to 16 percent and the ratio of debt to exports of
goods and services would fall from 2.7 to 1.9 during the same period.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       Costa Rica has to date received 30 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totalling US$495.0 million net of cancellations. Of these, six were for
power, five each for telecommunications, industry and highways, three for
agriculture and one each for education, water supply, urban transport,
technical assistance for petroleum exploration, and export development.
More recently, the Executive Directors approved a structura' adjustment
loan and accompanying technical assistance loar.  Performance audit reports
have been issued for three highway, five telecommunication, three
agriculture, and three power projects, as well as one education project.
These reports indicate that project objectives were generally achieved.
24.       Of the five projects under execution as of March 31, 1986, the
Structural Adjustment Loan has since been completed and fully disbursed.
Implementation of the remaining four loans (Highway Rehabilitation, Water
Supply, Petroleum Technical Assistance, and the Technical Assistance Loan)
is generally satisfactory, although the Water Supply Project experienced
significant initial delays owing to managerial and financial constraints
which have now been resolved. Both the Highway Rehabilitation and
Petroleum Technical Assistance projects are expected to be fully disbursed
by early 1987. Implementation of the Technical Assistance Loan is now
moving forward satisfactorily, with the first group of studies expected to
get underway in fall 1986. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986.
25.       Bank lending to Costa Rica initially concentrated on developing
basic infrastructure, mainly power, telecommunications and highways, with
more limited assistance being made available to support development of
agriculture and industry. In response to the growing econ.omic crisis in
the early 1980s, the Bank's lending program was redesigned, with priority
given to helping relieve the country's pressing balance of payments
problems, improve its export performance, and strengthen creditworthiness.
The Export Development Loan (US$25.2 million), approved in FY 1983,
constituted a first step in Bank support of Government economic recovery
efforts. It established a revolving export financing fund to help finance
the import requirements of export industries. The Structural Adjustment
Loan of US$80 million, and accompanying Technical Assistance Loan of US$3.5
million approved in FY 1985, continued support of the country's economic
recovery and adjustment effort. Both take into account the long-term
nature of the Costa Rican economic crisis and the importance of providing
support in the context of a phased Structural Adjustment Program. The
proposed Atlantico Agriculture Development Project will directly support
Government efforts to expand agricultural exports, which is one of the
principal objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program.
26.       Future Bank lending is expected to be directed at:  (i) contin-
uing support for the Structural Adjustment Program; (ii) further promoting
private sector efforts to develop exports in industry and agriculture; and
(iii) ensuring adequate maintenance of existing basic infrastructure. The
objective is to support the Government's economic recovery effort through a
blend of project and non-project lending. In this context we are currently



-7-
preparing a banking sector loan and are planning further support for
hlghway maintenance. In addition, discussions on additional possible
policy based lending to support the adjustment effort have been initiated
with the new Government.
27.       IFC has been Involved in four projects in Costa Rica.  Equity and
loan investment in Productos de Concreto have been sold and fully repaid.
In 1978, the Corporation approved a loan for an expansion project of Scott
Paper Company of Costa Rica (SCR). The project was completed on schedule
and within budget. IFC is currently considering an additional investmenL
for a second expansion program. Loan and equity investments financed the
integration and expansion of Maricultura, S.A. a shrimp farm on the Pacific
coast. The project's financial and management difficulties have since
forced the shrimp farm to cease operations. In August 1982, a loan of
US$4.0 million to Matas de Costa Rica, S.A., was approved by IFC's Board of
Directors to help finance the development of a new plantation for indoor
ornamental plants. The project's sponsor has been facing financial
difficulties which have affected adversely the company's performance. A
review of the project is planned for FY87. IFC continues to explore other
financing possibilities in the country.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Role in the National Economy
28.       Agriculture is a key sector in the Costa Rican economy.  It
accounts for about 20% of GDP (of which 65% originates from coffee,
bananas, cocoa and sugar, 10% from basic grains, 15% from livestock, 3%
from forestry and the remaining 7% from other crops and fisheries) and
employs about 32% of the labor force. The sector also accounts for about
7O0 of total exports. About 60% of these exports are provided by five
traditional primary products: coffee and bananas (26% each), beef (4%), and
sugar and cocoa (4%); non-traditional agricultural commodities (including
unprocessed vegetables, fruits, flowers, spices, and seafood) provide
nearly 10% of exports. Food imports account for nearly 10% of imports,
principally wheat, maize, beans, dairy products, sorghum and oilseeds.
29.       Fueled by favorable external markets, especially for bananas and
coffee, agricultural production grew rapidly during the 1960s and early
1970s at an average annual rate of over 5%. From the mid-1970s, however,
growth rates declined, averaging about 1% in the early 1980s, due mainly to
sluggish external markets.
The Resource Base and Development Potential
30.       There is considerable room for increasing and diversifying
production through both higher productivity and expanding the cropped
area. Coffee and banana yields are among the highest in the world, but
this is not the case with cocoa, sugarcane, and the basic grains. Cocoa
yields could be doubled through the application of improved cultural
practices such as pest, disease and weed control, proper density of
planting anid timing of operations, and application of fertilizers; similar
yield increases could be obtained for other crops.



-8-
31.       Of the total agricultural area of about 4.9 million ha, 0.5
millon ha (11%) is actually cropped, the remainder being under pastures
(49%) and forest8 (401). The four traditional export commodities occupy
atout 190,000 ha, with coffee accounting for 110,000 ha, bananas and cocoa
25,000 ha each, and sugarcane 30,000 ha. Basic grains and other
commodities occupy the balance of the crop land.
32.        The agricultural and cropped lands are distributed in three
principal zones: the Pacific Lowlands, the Central Highlands, and the
Atlantic and Northern Lowlands.  The Pacific Lowlands account for 2.2
million ha (45%) of the agricultural land, of which about 210,000 ha are
cropped; the potential crop land in this zone is estimated at about 1.2
million ha. The Central Highlands account for 1.1 million ha of the
agricultural land (22%), of which 210,000 ha are under crops; the potential
crop land in this zone is estimated at about 350,000 ha. The Atlantic and
Northern Lowlands have 1.6 million ha of the agricultural land (33%), of
which about 100,000 ha are cropped; the potential crop land in this zone is
estimated at about 600,000 ha.
Export Prospects
33.       Agricultural commodities will continue to constitute the bulk of
exports in the foreseeable future. The medium-term prospects for rapid
growth are limited by international market constraints and difficulties in
rapidly increasing production. In the coffee subsector, recent price
increases will increase export revenue in the short-term; however, longer
term growth prospects remain limited. For bananas and beef, some growth in
exports is possible. For sugar, the prospects are constrained by quotas in
protected markets, and by limited opportunities for profitable exports
outside of these markets. For cocoa, increased production and exports
depend mainly on progress in disease control measures.
34.       Of the five traditional exports, cocoa has promising potential
for rapid growth to restore production to levels reached in the early
1970s. Its production fell sharply in the late-1970s and early 1980s due
mainly to the outbreak of the virulent Frosty Pod disease. As a result,
current output is less than 252 of the level attained in the late 1970s
when the disease was first detected in Costa Rica.
35.       Regarding other agricultural products, some success has been
achieved in exports of various vegetable products, fruits, copra, macadamia
nuts, palm hearts, spices, and flowers, particularly to the U.S. and
European markets. Further growth is possible, but will require increasing
promotional and technical support by the Government, as well as involvement
by foreign partners, to provide technical, management and marketing advice,
as already happens with some crops, such as macademia nuts.
Institutional Framework
36.       The MHnistry of Agriculture (MAC) has overall responsibility for
agricultural and rural development. There are three other key agencies.
The first is the National Production Council (CNP) which is responsible for



-9-
stabilizing domestic food prices and promoting self-sufficiency in basic
grains, mainly by setting producer prices for rice, beans, corn and sorghum
and carrying out a variety of marketlig and other activities, including
importation of basic grains. The second is the Agrarian Development
Institute (ADI), which is responsible for land settlement programs. The
third is the Agricultural Sector Planning Secretariat (SEPSA) under the
overall coordination of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
(MIDEPLAN), which is responsible for sectoral planning and policy
formulation. For the Atlantic Region, there is a Board for Administration
of Ports and Development of the Atlantic Basin (JAPDEVA), which is
influential in planning economic development of the region.
37.       The above institutional framework is complemented by a variety of
mixed government and private sector associations which provide technical,
marketing and other support services to their members. Of particular
importance are the organizations for coffee and sugar producers, as well as
the National Banana Association (ASBANA). There are also two international
agencies headquartered in Costa Rica; the Tropical Agricultural Research
and Training Center (CATIE), which is active in research on tropical
fruits, including cocoa; and the Inter-american Institute for Agricultural
Cooperation (IICA), which provides technical assistance.
Banking aEftem and AMricultural Credit
38.       Costa Rica's financial system is comprised of boLh public and
private banks, but is dominated by four public banks which account for
about 90% of the total assets of the banking system. These four banks, of
which the National Bank of Costa Rica (BNCR) is the largest, account for
virtually all institutional credit to the agricultural sector. BNCR is
also the most experienced and active in lending for agriculture, and would
be responsible for implementing the credit component of the proposed
project.
39.       Like all of the public banks, BNCR has long been isolated from
market forces, and faces financial difficulties, and institutional and
managerial constraints. This results from an inadequate legal and
regulatory framework, weak capital structure, large arrears problems, and
high operating costs. Moreover, the Government has subsidized interest
rates on loans to small farmers, resulting in burden on the public budget.
To begin addressing these issues, which are common to all the public banks,
the Government has taken a number of steps, including modifications to the
Money and Central Bank laws to facilitate improved use of external
resources, and improved flexibility in the credit allocation system. The
Central Bank has begun to give market forces a role in the determination of
interest rates by allowing individual public banks to set their own -tasa
basica" based on demand, their cost of funds, and other market criteria.
Further actions to improve the public banks, including BNCR, are being
supported under the ongoing Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 2519-CR) which
provides consultant assistance to design and help implement specific
measures to improve credit policy and processing, including reducing
arrears and strengthening loan appraisal capability and administration
procedures; accelerating efforts to streamline operations and introduce
data processing; and analyzing the need for changes in the banks' decision



- 10 -
making processes and staffing requirements. Further efforts to improve the
efficiency of BNCR and other public banks are expected to be tackled under
the proposed banking sector loan currently under preparation. In this
context, additional actions are under discussion with the Government and
Central Bank on ways to make interest rate and credit allocation policies
more market oriented, further improve the portfolio and efficiency of the
public banks, strengthen overall banking supervision and foster increased
competition between public and private banks.
40.       To complement the efforts described above to improve the banking
system in general and the public banks in particular, the proposed project
would support specific improvements in the operation of BNCR to enable it
to carry out the project effectively. Such improvements would include more
efficient sub-loan processing and supervision, and more intensive technical
assistance to sub-borrowers (paras. 66 and 67). These improvements, while
strengthening BNCR's operational efficiency, are also expected to reduce
arrears on subloans to be financed under the proposed project, through
improved guidelines for appraisal and supervision of investments.
Furthermore, the onlending interest rates would be consistent with market
conditions at the time the subloans are approved. Although it is possible
for market interest rates on long-term loans to turn negative in times of
accelerating inflation, the Government's success so far in containing
inflation if maintained, should minimize this risk. Meanwhile, variable
rate lending would be examined as part of the periodic review of onlending
rates under the project.
Government's De4yelopment Strategy and Agricultural Sector Issues
41.       The principal objectives of the Government's agriculture
development strategy are to: (a) expand exports; (b) encourage production
of basic grains; and (c) maintain domestic price stability in food items.
However, the prevailing policy framework has not always been consistent
with the objectives: the trade incentive system favored manufacturing over
agriculture; and export agriculture has been hurt by an overvalued exchange
rate (until 1981), high export taxes, as well as export restrictions and
domestic price controls, especially on beef. In addition, efforts to
encourage basic grains production by intervening in the marketing of such
commodities through the National Production Council (CNP), and generous
input subsidies, including preferential credit and crop insurance, resulted
in fiscal losses.
42.       The Government has begun correcting its policies towards the
sector under its structural adjustment program, the first phase of which
was supported under SAL I (Loan 2518-CR). This involved: (a) adoption of
a new trade regime to begin rationalizing effective protection in industry
which would reduce the bias against agriculture; (b) exchange rate
adjustments; {c) reduction of export taxes especially on bananas; and (d)
reduction of CNP's losses through appropriate price and other policy
adjustments. The lack of satisfactory progress in reducing CNP losses
resulted in the need for additional price and other actions, which were
taken in May and June of 1986. The Government is also in the process of
expanding extension services and reorienting research activities to support
new export crops through a nationwide program of technology development and
transfer financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).



- 11 -
43.       To help lay the foundation for further reform, the Government is
in the process of undertaking a study of the agricultural sector, financed
under the TAL (Loan 2519-CR) to; (a) review the effectiveness and benefits
of existing prices and subsidy policies, and (b) propose alternative
policies which would encourage production in line with the country's
comparative advantage. Consultants to undertake the study are in the
process of being recruited, and the study is expected to be completed in
1987. Policy improvements which emerge from this study could be supported
within the framework of additional policy based lending.
Role of the Bank in the Sector
44.       Since 1968, the Bank has made three loans to the agriculture
sector totalling US$30 million. The first two loans (Loan 538-CR and Loan
827-CR) were for credit projects and the third (Loan 1410-CR) was for a
nationwide project involving credit, rural roads, seeds production and
strengthening of the extension service. All three projects were
implemented satisfactorily, although performance of project impleuenting
agencies under Loan 1410-CR was mixed. In particular, efforts to introduce
the training and visit system into MAG's extension service were
unsuccessful owing mainly to a lack of commitment on the part of the
Ministry, as well as increasing budgetary constraints. In addition, the
Project Unit in the Central Bank was not given the staff or authority
needed to adequately coordinate the credit component. The Project
Completion Report recommended, inter alia, that future projects: (a) avoid
the use of the Central Bank as executing agency since such a role is beyond
its general mandate; (b) strengthen project management, monitoring and
evaluation; and (c) minimize the number of project components to ensure
less complex administrative, supervision and coordination arrangements.
45.        The future role of the Bank in the sector would focus in two
main areas. First, the Bank would continue working with the Government to
improve the macroeconomic and sector policy environment to enhance rapid
and sustainable sectoral growth and development; the proposed banking
sector loans and subsequent policy based lending operations would support
this. Second, the Bank would support, through project lending, private
sector efforts to !acrease production of agricultural exports.  Further
development of Costa Rica's traditional agricultural exports and promotion
of new agricultural exports is essential if the country is to resume
sustained growth. The Bank intends to help in this by providing a blend of
financial and technical support. The proposed project fits the above
strategy. It was designed to support private sector efforts to increase
production of agricultural exports, and focuses on investments which are
financially and econordcally attractive.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       The proposed project would be located in the Atlantic and
Northern Lowlands zone (see attached map) where some of the country's key
agricultural exports including cocoa, are grown. It was prepared under a



- 12 -
previous agricultural project (Loan 1410-CR), and was appraised during
June/July, 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington during July 23-25,
1986. The Costa Rican delegation was led by the Minister of Planning, Mr.
Otton Solis.
Objective and Description
47.        The key objective of the proposed project is to expand the
production of agricultural export commodities, conaistent with the Bank's
assistance strategy for Costa Rica. Under the proposed project, the Bank's
role would be to help finance an integrated program of investment and
technical assistance using improved technology researched and developed
locally. In this way, the Bank would support private sector efforts to
increase production for export, especially cocoa, which has considerable
potential, but which has been faced with declining production owing to
disease problems.
48.        In order to meet its objective, the proposed project would:
(a) provide agricultural credit for financing the development of selected
export crops, including about 7,000 ha of cocoa mostly inter-cultivated
with coconut palms; (b) improve about 105 km of rural roads; (c) issue
about 1,500 land titles; (d) provide technical assistance; and
(e) strengthen project administration. These are described below.
49         Agricultural Credit.  The proposed export crop development
program would include rehabilitating about 3,000 ha of existing cocoa
trees, replanting of about 1,500 ha of old cocoa flelds, and new planting
of about 2,500 ha.  The projection is based on surveys of farms in the
project area which were undertaken to assess the potential for the proposed
cocoa-coconut development. Cocoa production would be developed primarily
by controlling the Frosty Pod disease, which has been the principal cause
of production decline in the recent past. Extensive research on the
disease resistance and life cycle of the causal fungus Moniliophthora
roreri has been undertaken by CATIE, which has developed some 24
disease-tolerant hybrids. It has also developed control measures for the
disease which include reduction of humidity in plantations, shade and weed
control, pruning, proper drainage, and early detection and removal of
diseased pods. Both the CATIE developed cocoa hybrids as well as disease
control measures would be utilized by farmers participating in the
Project. In the case of coconut, high yielding hybrids developed by ASBANA
would be planted. Investment would include the costs of establishment and
maintenance of the young trees through the first year of production, three
years in the case of cocoa and four years for coconut.
50.        Roads. The road network in the project area is inadequate.  The
proposed project would include rehabilitation of six sections of roads
(25 km) and construction of five new sections (80 km).  Engineering designs
for 35% of the roads have been completed, and designs for the remaining 651
would be completed by the end of 1987. The proposed project would also
provide road maintenance equipment to MOPT for use in the Project Area to
ensure adequate maintenance of the road network.
51.        Land Titles.  Nearly 20% of all farmers in the proposed project
area lack clear land titles which are needed to get institutional credit.



- 13 -
Although the land is owned by the Government, the farmers have acquired the
right to use it through many years of cultivation. Titling would mean
legally transferring the land to the farmers; ADI has the responsibility
and authority to do this. ADI's procedures for issuing land titles involve
surveys, measurement and demarcation of boundaries, preparation of maps,
and registration of ownership. The proposed project would finance vehicles
for supervising the titling work, as well as the cost of land surveys.
Lending under the credit component of the proposed project would start with
farmers who already have clear titles to their holdings, while farmers who
do not now have titles but would get them under the proposed project, would
participate in the credit program during the latter years of the project.
52.       Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component would
include 36 man-months of internationally recruited technical assistance to
provide training to farmers and technicians of BNCR on improved
cocoa-coconut cultivation techniques. Initially, an expert in cocoa and
coconut production would be hired for one year, with complementary
technical assistance in extension training and specialized fields such as
disease control to be provided as required. The technical staff of MAG
would complement BNCR's technicians in extending technology to farmers.
Recruitment internationally by BNCR of an expert in cocoa-coconut
cultivation, whose qualifications and experience would be acceptable to the
Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness.
53.       Project Administration.  The proposed project would be
administered by existing agencies of the Government. Except for the
administration of the credit component, which would require about 15
additional staff, no additional staff would be required. BNCR's technical
staff would be trained by CATIE under an existing agreement; supplementary
in-service training would be provided by the above-mentioned consultant.
The proposed project also includes funds for purchase of vehicles for use
by BNCR in the Project Area.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total cost estimate of the proposed project, net of taxes is
about US$43.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$11.1 million or 25%. The base cost is calculated using mid-1986 prices.
Physical contingencies have been computed at 15 for civil works.
Allowances for expected price increases on the foreign exchange component
have been computed using the :ank's projection for internationl inflation.
For the local component, the allowances are 11 for 1986, with the same
rates as for the foreign exchange component applied thereafter.
55.       A Bank loan of US$26 million is proposed.  This would finance 60%
of the total cost, including local currency financing of US$14.9 million
equivalent. The proposed level of financing is justified, given the
severity of Costa Rica's fiscal and balance of payments problems, and the
country's need to ensure a continued inflow of capital from abroad to
support its investment program. The remaining financing would be provided
by the Government (US$4.0 million including US$2.0 million equivalent which
the Government would lend to BNCR to help finance the credit component);
BNCR (US$2.5 million), and the beneficiaries of the credit program
(US$11 million).



- 14 -
56.        The Republic of Costa Rica, as the Borrower, would bear the
foreign exchange risk, which risk would be compensated for through interest
payments by the beneficiaries of Sub-loans. The Borrower would: (i)
on-lend to BRCR US$22.5 million equivalent of the proposed Bank loan in
Colones; and (ii) lend an additional US$2.0 million equivalent in local
currency from its own resources for financing the credit component of the
project and associated costs, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and BNCR. In this Subsidiary Loan Agreement, BNCR would be given
a 6% spread to cover sub-loan administration expenses, the cost of
technical assistance to beneficiaries and the lending risk on sub-loans.
Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness. The remaining US$3.5 million of the proposed
loan would be used to finance the road and land titling components.
57.        To provide for the transfer of funds to ADI for carrying out the
land titling component, the Borrower would sign a contractual agreement
with ADI, acceptable to the Bank, as a condition of effectiveness.
Procurement
58.       Vehicles and equipment for the road component (uS$700,000) would
be procured following international competitive bidding (ICBE in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Goods estimated to cost below US$15,000 per contract
but not exceeding an aggregate of US$100,000 would be procured by local
shopping with written quotations from at least three suppliers; the
vehicles and equipment for land titling and project administration
(US$72,000) are expected to fall in this category. Civil works for road
rehabilitation and construction (US$3.8 million) would be tendered
following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The works which would involve rehabilitation of six sections and the
construction of five sections over three years, would be individually small
and are unlikely to attract foreign bids. They would not be suitable for
ICB procurement. Inputs to be financed under the credit component would be
procured by the beneficiaries through normal commercial channels. For
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the Bank
would review and approve tender documents before they are issued. For
civil works, model bidding documents and contracts would be submitted to
the Bank for approval before advertising and tendering; award of contracts
would be reviewed by the Bank on an ex-post basis.
59.        The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project
elements are shown as follows:



- 15 -
Procurement Procedures a/
Project Element           ICB        LCB        Others    applicable    Total
- - - - - -(US$ million)- 
Vehicles & Equipment       0.7         -            0.1          -         0.8
(0.7)       -           (0.1)                  (0.8)
Civil Works                 -         3.8            -           -         3.8
(2.2)                                (2.2)
Consultants                 -          -             -          0.5        0.5
(0.5)      (0.5)
Otherb/                     -          -           38.4         -         38.4
(22.5)                 (22.5)
Total                      0.7        3.8          38.5        0.5        43.5
(0.7)     (2.2)        (22.6)       (0.5)     (26.0
a/  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed out of the Loan.
b/ Mostly the credit component.
Disbursement
60.       The proposed loan of US$26.0 million would be disbursed over a
seven year period, based on the disbursement profile for agriculture credit
projects in the Latin American and Caribbean Region. Disbursement would be
made against: 100% of expenditures on vehicles and equipment (US$0.8
million) and on consultant services (US$0.5 million), 60% of civil works
contracts for roads (US$2.2 million), and 90% of sub-loan amounts disbursed
by BNCR (US$22 million); US$0.5 million would be unallocated. The
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures; the
documentation would be retained by the implementing agencies and made
available to Bank staff during supervision.
61.       Establishment by the Borrower of a Project Account in the Central
Bank of Costa Rica with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million in local
currency to cover counterpart expenditures would be a condition of
effectiveness. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Borrower would maintain the Project Account throughout the proposed
project's implementation period. Assurances were also obtained that the
Borrower would establish a Special Account, in U.S. dollars, in the Central
Bank of Costa Rica, to cover eligible expenditures and maintain this
special account throughout the project's implementation period. An
initial deposit of US$1.0 million would be made by the Bank upon receipt
and approval of a satisfactory withdrawal application. Subsequent
replenishment by the Bank of the Special Account would follow normal
procedures and would be for the Bank's share of eligible expenditures.
Implementation
62.       The first year of the proposed project is expected to be used for
setting-up the organization for project implementation; physical
implementation is expected to start in the second year.



- 16 -
63.       Under the overall coordination of MIDEPLAN, the proposed project
would be implemented by BNCR (credit and technical assistance),
MOPT (roads), and ADI (land titling).   In addition, the research and
extension services of NAG would collaborate closely with BNCR in provlding
technical assistance to the farmers. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Borrower that a Project Coordination Unit, with
membership and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, would be
established within MIDEPLAN by not later than December 31, 1986, and
maintained throughout the proposed project's implementation period. Its
responsibilities would include: (a) consolidating of project operational
plans, progress reports and a project completion report, based on
submissions of executing agencies; (b) identifying implementation
bottlenecks and ensuring that appropriate measures are taken to resolve
these bottlenecks; and (c) evaluating the overall performance of the
proposed project.
64.       A ministerial level Project Steering Committee, consisting of
representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Transport,
Agriculture, and Exports, and of BNCR, ADI, and JAPDEVA, would be
established by the Borrower as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan; the membership and responsibilities would be acceptable to the Bank.
The Committee, which would be chaired by the Minister of MIDEPLAN, would
help ensure smooth functioning of the different project components and
resolve any inter-institutional issues which may arise.
65.       BNCR would carry out the credit component through its Programs
Direction and Coordination Unit (UNDICO) which has its headquarters in
San Jose but operates through several field units attached to BNCR's
branches/credit agencies. There are five branches/credit agencies serving
the proposed project area.
66.        UNDICO has sufficient experience to carry out the project but
its staff of 40 technical personnel would be strengthened by recruitment of
about 15 additional technicians, since the existing staff is engaged witU
implementation of ongoing projects. The additional staff would provide a
technician to farmer ratio of 1:70 under the proposed project. Based on
experience elsewhere in Costa Rica, this ratio would enable each technician
to visit four to five farmers per day at intervals of about three weeks.
This frequency of farm visits would provide sub-borrowers with a
satisfactory level of technical and loan processing assistance, to insure
that farmers apply the technology to be recommended, attain the yield
levels projected, and be able to service their loans.
67.        The proposed project would build on an on-going IDB technical
assistance program to UNDICO designed to strengthen its procedures in
project appraisal, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation. Loan
processing and supervision would be further streamlined under the proposed
project by delegating more responsibility to branch managers, who with the
additional staff provided, would have the capacity to assume this
responsibility.   Complementary to this, loan applications for up to
US$150,000 would be approved by the branch managers, with headquarters
approving larger amounts. The Bank would review the appraisal of sub-loans
exceeding US$300,000, which are not expected to number more than about ten
subprojects or 15 percent of the proposed loan. To improve the portfolio



- 17 -
management under the project, UNDICO would be required to: (a) prepare and
execute annual work plans covering lending and supervision activities; (b)
provide technical support to farmers in preparing and implementing
subprojects; and (c) prepare progress reports and a completion report on
the credit component. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
BNCR that it would apply the above procedures for processing subprojects.
68.        MOPT would, through its Public Works Division, assume
responsibility for carrying out the road component of the proposed
project. Normally, the cantonal networkl1 falls under the jurisdiction of
the  cantons, but inadequate financial resources and shortage of technical
staff prevent the cantons from executing effectively this responsibility.
As a result, the cantons continue to rely on MOPT for the development and
maintenance of the road network in their jurisdiction.
69.        ADI, which has considerable experience in land titling, would be
responsible for issuing land titles. It would undertake the necessary
cadastral surveys, prepare maps, ptocess titling through the legal system,
and issue titles.
Sub-loan Policies and Procedures
70.        Eligibility.  The proposed project would finance investments to
increase the production of export-oriented agricultural crops in the
Atlantic Highlands. Although the focus of the credit program is expected
to be on cocoa and copra, there would be no restriction on the development
of other export crops such as tropical fruits, palm hearts, spices,
bananas, macadamia nuts, and flowers.
71.        On-lending Terms.  The interest rate to be charged sub-borrowers
would be determined by market conditions and would be at least equal to the
"basic rateC2/. Under present circumstances, the onlending rate would be
at least 17X: which is positive in real terms.  In keeping with current
policy in Costa Rica, interest rates would be fixed once the subloans are
approved. The risk that interest rates on existing loans could become
negative if the rate of inflation in Costa Rica accelerates above the
onlending rates is relatively low because of Government success in
containing the rate of inflation over the past few years, a trend which is
envisaged to continue. The possibility of variable rate lending would also
be examined as part of the periodic review of onlending rates under the
project. During negotiations assurances were obtained from BNCR and the
Borrower that the onlending interest rate to beneficiaries would be
1/    Cantons are local administrative sub-divisions equivalent to
districts.
2/    The basis rate, or tasa basica, is a deposit rate for six month
deposits. Following recent changes approved by the Central Bank,
this rate is now determined by each bank individually based on
market conditions.



- 18 -
reviewed and if necessary adjusted, in consultation with the Bank, every
June and December to ensure that the onlending interest rate to new
beneficiaries would be at least equal to the basic rate.
72.        During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BNCR that
other on-lending terms would include the following: (a) sub-loans would
not exceed 75% of the total cost of investments in sub-projects;
tb) sub-loans made to any sub-borrower would not exceed in the
aggregate US$500,000; and (c) the repayment period would be established for
each sub-loan on the basis of sub-project analysis, but would not exceed
15 years including grace periods of not more than four years.
73.        Sub-loan Processing.  BNCR would ensure that lending decisions
are taken on the basis of adequate sub-loan appraisals to ensure that
sub-projects are technically, financially and economically viable and that
the activities to be financed are export oriented. It would supervise the
subprojects closely to ensure, inter alia, that farmers apply recommended
technological packages.
Environmental Impact
74.       The proposed project would not have an adverse impact on the
environment. The closed canopy of cocoa would offer excellent protection
against the heavy rain and soil erosion in the foothills of the proposed
project area. Fertilizers (mainly a compound fertilizer containing
nitrogenphosphorus and potash), and pesticides (mainly malathion) would be
applied under the guidance of project staff to minimize any harmful effects
of their use.
Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
75.       The implementing agencies would be responsible for preparing
progress and completion reports on their respective components. The
Project Coordination Unit would coordinate the preparation of all reports,
and consolidate the same for submission to the Bank. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Borrower would submit to the Bank
necessary data and information on all project components through annual
progress reports beginning March 31, 1988.
76.        The Project Coordination Unit, in collaboration with the
implementing agencies, would monitor project implementation and evaluate
the results. Each implementing agency would use its own management
information system for monitoring the components under its jurisdiction.
Accounts and Audits
77.        Separate project accounts would be maintained by BNCR, MOPT, and
ADI. The accounts of MOPT and ADI would be audited by the Auditor General
of the Republic. BNCR's accounts and its separate project account, as well



- 19 -
as the Project and Special Accounts in the Central Bank of Costa Rica, would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would submit
certified copies of the audited Project Accounts of MOPT and ADI, as well as
the audited Project and Special Accounts in the Central Bank of Costa Rica
annually to the Bank not later than six months after the close of the
Government's fiscal year, starting with the audit reports for the fiscal year
ending December 31, 1987. Assurances were also obtained from BNCR that audit
reports covering its overall accounts and separate project account, aS
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of BNCR's
fiscal year, starting with the fiscal year ending December 31, 1987.
Benefits
78.        The proposed project would increase the production of cocoa and
coconut; the principal export crops to be promoted under the project. The
outputs of cocoa and coconut are expected to be exported in the form of dry
beans and copra, respectively. At full development, the incremental output
of cocoa is projected to be 4,200 tons per year, while for copra the
corresponding volume would amount to about 9,600 tons. The resulting foreign
exchange earnings are projected to reach US$8.5 million per year at full
development in constant 1985 prices, or about US$290 million over the life of
the project.
79.        Cocoa is one of the traditional exports of Costa Rica, and there
are customary markets in the US, Europe, and Latin America. Due to a fall in
production, the export volume from Costa Rica has been declining consistently
in the recent past, and now stands at about 2,000 tons per year compared to a
historical high of over 9,000 tons attained in the late 1970s. She proposed
project would help to restore part of the lost exports, with the projected
incremental output being exported mainly to Costa Rica's traditional markets.
80.        Exports of copra from Costa Rica -- mainly to Europe -- have been
increasing in recent years, reflecting favorable market prospects. Exports
are now running at about 1,500 tons per year and there is growing private
sector investment in new plantings and coconut processing facilities. The
proposed project would result in a substantial expansion of copra exports,
while also making use of coconut trees as shade for the cocoa plantings.
81.        Marketing of both. of the above products would continue to be done
by private merchants/processors, with no intervention by the Government
either in the physical handling of the products or in setting product
prices. The domestic prices, which correlate closely with international
prices, are determined by free interplay of demand and supply. Despite a
declinirng trend in the prices of both products, the beneficiaries would have
substantial financial gains which would provide adequate incentives for them
to participate in the proposed project. About 1,040 farm families would
benefit from the project, some 20 percent of whom have per capita incomes of
less than 30 percent of the national average, and are part of the rural poor.
About 10 percent of the project benefits would accrue to them. The



- 20 -
remaining 80 percent of the families have per capita Incomes equivalent to
30-50 percent of the national average. Incomes of beneficiaries are
expected to increase by an average of about 1U3 percent.  The financial
rate of return of farm investments financed under the proposed project
would average about 40 percent.
82.       The economic rate of return (ERR) on all project investments is
estimated at about 18 percent. The project would yield an ERR of at least
13 percent even if (a) costs increase or benefits decrease by 20 percent;
(b) there is a lag of two years in attaining the projected benefits; or
(c) the price of cocoa falls by 20 percent.
Project Risks
83.       The project faces the risk of a slower than projected rate of
adoption of the technological packages. Although cocoa has been grown in
the project area for many years, the farmers' attitude towards its
cultivation has been set back because of their bad experience with Frosty
Pod disease. That problem has been aggravated by falling prices of cocoa.
There is, therefore, a risk that farmers will move more slowly than
expected to adopt the new technological packages for cocoa-coconut
cultivation. The possible lower level of investment would result in lower
than projected export growth. To minimize this risk, the project provides
for an intensive technical assistance program to be carried out by BNCR.
These efforts, together with the example set by farmers in the Project Area
who have already successfully rehabilitated their cocoa fields, should
reduce the risk of lower than expected farmer participation. The above
crops were chosen to be the main focus of the proposed project because the
financial and economic rates of return on investments in these crops would
rpmain attractive even with possible declines in their prices.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
September 24, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-21- -NKEXI
Pa;. 1 of 7
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA
Refarence Groups (MRE)
Most
Recant    Mid-income    Mid-incose
1965       1973    estimate        LAC           Europe
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)       50.7        50.7        50.7
Agricultural (% of total)          30.7        40.4        55.3
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                                       1190.0      1782.8     1973.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)          1482.0      1868.0      2527.0
Urban pop. (X of total)            38.1        40.7        45.4       68.9        48.4
Population growtn rate(%):
Total                                         3.0        2.9         2.3         1.6
Urban                                         3.8         2.3        3.6         3.7
Life expect. at birth (yrs)        64.3       68.4        73.3        65.6        67.9
Population projections:
Pcp. In 2000 (mill)                                      3.5
Stationary pop. (mill)                                   5.4
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land               95.3        91.2        90.2       53.5       149.1
Pop. aop structure %):
0-14 yrs                         48.4        44.1       37.4        38.7        31.3
15-64 yrs                       48.6        52.6        58.9        57.1        61.5
65 and above                      3.1         3.4        3.7         4.3         7.2
Crude birth rate (per thou)        44.9        28.5        28.8       30.1        23.0
Crude death rate (per thou)         7.5         5.7         4.1        7.7         8.8
Total fertility rate                6.4         4.2         3.3        3.9         3.0
Infant mort. rate (per thou)       71.8       51.8        19.2        56.1        53.8
Child death rate (par thou)         8.0         6.1         0.4        4.3         5.0
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)         10.0       26.4        20.4 a
Users (t of married women)                  28.0        65.0        46.2
FOOD. HEALTH AND FAITRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 a 100)             75.4        98.2       88.2       105.2       101.8
Per capita supply of:
Calories (X of rqu1irmnts)    105.6         111.6      114.1       109.3       129.5
Proteins (grams per day)         57.6       57.5        61.1        65.0        88.4
Pop. per pnysician (thou)           2.0         1.4          ,,        t.3         1.1
Pop. per nurse (thou)               0.6         0.4                    1.2         0.9
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)        0.2         0.3        0.3 a       0.4         0.3
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total        59.0       74.0        84.0 a      66.3        76.5
Urban      85.1        98.0       100i.0a      77.0       95.1
Rural      43.6        59.0        68.0 a      44.8       62.6
Population Growth              Infant Mortality       Primary School Enrollment
5                   ~~~~~~~200-
1                 ~~~~~~~120-
350                                            -
3-                                                BO -~~~mo   -- 
1945-73 9137-4         1sSO 1365 1970 1975 1330     1960 1965 190 19 330 190
OM COSTA RICA                                  *  COSTA RICA
m rFIST cr GRDUP                                  E RSLT GROt QUP



-22-                            ANNEXI
Page 2 of 7
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate       LAC           Europe
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)         436.0       581.2       871.3
Female CE                        17.2       19.0        21.9       23.9        36.6
Agriculture (%)                 46.8        33.8        30.8 a     31.8        43.2
Industry (%)                    19.3        i1.0        23.1 a     26.0        25.0
Participation rate CE:
Tota1                           29.4        31.1        34.5       32.3        42.9
Male                            48.3        50.0        53.3       49.2        54.5
Female                           10.2       12.0        15.2        15.4       31.4
Age dependency ratio                1.1        0.9         0.7        0.8         0.6
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                            5.8         5.6
Urban                            5.4
Rural                            6.0
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                           55.0        69.8
Urban                           93.5
Rural                           32.0
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                 106.0       110.0       102.0       107.3      108.9
Male                  107.0       110.0      103.0       109.7       111.0
Female                105.0       109.0      100.0       105.8       106.6
Secondary: Total                24.0        28.0        44.0       49.1        55.5
Male                 23.0       27.0        41.0        44.5       60.2
Female               25.0       29.0        46.0        46.7       50.6
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                         26.8        28.9        31.7       29.1        24.7
Secondary                       18.8        25.6        19.9       16.3        18.0
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                   68.0        70.1       55.2        95.4
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)           268.5       516.8      485.5       999.0      1176.4
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households       44.0
Highest 20%                     58.6        54.8
Lowest 20%                       5.7         3.3
Lowest 40%                      13.0        12.0
Est. absolute poverty Income
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.          15.3        27.9                   45.8        93.3
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)         72.2       110.3       71.2        94.9       141.4
EPD duly 1986
Net available
Mote: GrouD averages ire pmpulatiors weighted. Country coveragu depends on data availabIlity and Is not uniorFm Unless olhervwis
net". 16w reform to any year betwens 1952 antd I9; 1973 between 1970 and 1976; and mast recent mstimate betwen 1982 and 1915.
a. 1960.



23
MNNE I
Page 3 of 7
3 Definitions of Social Indicaton
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Toialfertility rate - The avenp nunaber of children
vary among countries or within one country over    that would be born alive to a woman during her
time. For instance, different countries define 'urban    lifetime if duiing her childbearing years she w-e to
area" or "safe water" in different ways.         bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-
ing agepcific fertility rate
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                Infant (age 0-i) mortality rate - Number of infants
Total - Total surface arca comprising land aea and  per thousand live births who die before reaching one
inland waters.                                   year or age, in a given year.
Agricultural (percentage of torta) - Estimate of agri-    Child (age 1-4) moradity rare - Number of deaths
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and  of children, age 1-4, per thousand children in the
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow. as percentage of    same age group in a given year. For most developing
total.                                           countries thes data are derived from models using
infonnation on infant mortality rates.
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita esti-    Family planing - acceptors. (thouds) - Annual
mates at current market prices, calculated by the    nunber of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
conversion method used for the World  ank Atlas,    ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
1986.                                           ning program.
Family plannig - users (percentag of married wom-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                  en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
Tital population - mid-year (millions)          age who are practising, or whose husbands are
Urban population (percencage of total) - Different    practising, any form of contraception. Women of
countries follow different definitions of urban popU-    child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49,
lation. Such differcnces may affect compambility of    although for somne countries contraceptive usage is
data among countries.                            measurd for another age group.
Population growth rate (percen) - total and urban -
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRMON
uons.                                           Indexoffoodpro&ctionpercapira (1974- 76=100)
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
newborn infant would live if prevailing pattens of    commodities. Production excludes animal fcod and
mortality for all peopic at the time of its birth were    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
to stay the same throughout its life.            mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
Ptpulation projeclions                           or sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Population in 2000 - The projection of population    trients (for example, tea and coffee are exduded).
given total population by age and sex, fertility and    Commodities include nut, fruits, pulses, ccreals,
the denographic parameters of mortality rates, and  vegetables, oil seeds, sugaranc and sugar beets,
migration in the base year 1980, until the popuation    livestock, and livestock products. Aggregpte produc-
reaches a stationary state.                      tion of each country is based on national average
Stasioiary population - The projected population    producer price weights.
lvel when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,    Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of nct
the age siructure is stable, and the growth raze is    food supplies available in country per capita per day.
zero.                                            Available supplies comprise domestic production,
Population density, agricultural land- Population per    imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    supplies excludc animal feed, seeds for u- in asri-
Population age structure (percenr) - Children 0-14    culture, quantities used in food processing, and loss-
years, working age 15-64 years, and people of 65    es in distribution. Requirements wer estimated for
years and over as pcntages of population.        1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
population.                                      activity and health considering body weights, envi-
Crud  death rate - Annual deaths per thousand    ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution o'
population.                                      population.
3



-24-                            ANEX I
Page 4 of 7
Per capta aupply ofprotein (antms per day) - Protein    Industry (pecan:) - Labor fore in mining, contruco
content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net    don, manufacturing and electricity, water and gs as
supply of food is defined as above. Requiremeno for    a percenage or total labor force.
all countries established by United States Depart-    Partidpation rate (percent - total, mok, ardferak
ment of Agriculture provike for nmirnum allow-    - Puticipation rates are computed u the percentage
ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20    of population of all ages in the labor force. Thme are
grams of animal and pus protein. Thes standards    based on Internationl Labour Office ([[O) data on
are lower than those of 75 grms of total protein and    the age-sea structure of the population.
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the    Age dependeny ratio - Ratio of population under IS,
world, as proposed by FAO.                       and 65 and over, to the working age population (ag
Populrwn per physian - Population divided by    1564).
number of practising physicians qualified from a
medial school at university level.               HOUSING
Popultion per nursing person - Population divided    Average size of hoshold (person  per houhold) -
by number of prctising graduate nurses, assistant    total. urban, and rural - A household consist of a
nurses, prcticid nurses and nursing auxiliaries,  group of individuals who share iving quarters and
Pbpultio  per hostal bed - Population divided by    main neals. A boarder or lodgr may or my not be
number or hospital beds availbkle in public and pri-   included in the household for statistical purposesw
vate, general and specialired hospitals, and reha-    Percentage of dwellings with ectricy - mal, ura.
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments    andrural - Conventional dwdengs with eectricty in
penrmtanely staffed by at least one physan. Es-   living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
tabhlishments principally providing custodial care are
not induded.                                     EDUCATION
Acces to saft water (percentage of popuati) - total,    Enrolbenmt Rtes
srba. andrua- PwopLe (totaL urban, and rual) with  Primary Swool Enril ext - total, mal andfemake
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
ed surface walters or untrated but   ontinat     pe   tage of primary school-age childre. While
water such as that from springs, sanitary wdes, and  many countnes consider prinmary school age to be
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    6-11 years, others have wider age groups Differ-
tan or standpost located not more than 200 meters    enocs in country practices in the ages and duration
fron a housc may be consiered withmin rasonable    of school am reflected in the ratios given. For some
acccss of that house. In rwal areas reasonable acwn  countries with universal education, goss enrollmnt
vwoud inply that members of the household do not    may exceed 100 peret since -e pupils are youn-
have to spe  a disproportionate part of the day    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
fetching water. Absent and incomplete responses, and    school age.
large vanations between countries, may affect the  Secodary School Enrolment - total, mare ad
validity of the overall results of the country and    femak  - Computed in a similar manner. but includes
regional comparisons. In addition, cerain definitions    pupils enrolled in vocational, or teaher training
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
able acces to safe water in rural aras, safe water    years of age.
soures (wben they arc not subject to laboratory   Pupil-teacher ratw -primary, andondary - Total
control vary considerably from country to country    students enrolled in school divided by the total
and thus affect comparability of the data       number of teachers
Percentage pupils reachig grade siu - The percen-
LABOR FORCE                                     tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
Total labor force (millions) - Economnically active    school that persist into grade six.
persons, including armed forces and unmployed but
excluding housewives and students. Ddinitions in    INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
various countries are not comparable.           Ery comption per capita  ilograms of oil  i-
Femal (percent) - Female labor force as a prcn-    valent) - Annual consumption of commerial pri-
tage of total labor force                       mary energy (coal and lignite, petrokum  natural
Agricuiure (percent) - Labor force in farming,    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
forestry, hunting and fishingas a pcentage of total    Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
labor force.                                    and kind) accruing to peroentile groups of house-
4



- 25 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
holds ranked by total household income.           Estimated absolute poverty income level (USE per
Passenger cars (per ihousand population) - Includes    capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-    level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.  adequate diet plus essential nonfood requiremnents
Newspaper circulation (per thousand populalion) -    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
Average circulation of "daily general interest news-    imate measures or poverty levels, and should be
paper," defined as a periodical publication devoted    interpreted with considerable caution.
primarily to recording general news. It is considered  Estimated population below absolute poverty income
to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
populations who live in "absolute poverty."



- 26 -
AMa I
tpilationz  2.4 mILUin                                                                                                                          PA" 6 of 7
ou Per Capta (192)  81,290
prim)    ~           (c n   ri.
1994              1981    1984           1995        1996        1987       1988        1969        199        1991
Grow Dtimud  Product                 3,0724              -2.3      7.5            1.2       3.5         3.0         3.5       3.8         4.0        4.0
Agriculture                          628               -5.1      7.3            0.0        2.0        2.5         3.0        3.0        3.0        3.2
Talwtry                             864                -4.2    12.1L            7.1       5.0         3.5         4.0       4.5         4.9        4.7
Seryism                            1,33                -3.7      1.4           0.0        3.5         3.0         3.5       3.8         4.0        4.0
Caiawtlai                  ~~~~~~2.408          -6.0      6.7           153        3.8         2.3         3.4       3.8         4.0        3.5
(kM. DNImst                           632               -45.7    18.8          -31.0        5.2         3.2         4.0       3.3         4.0        4.0
Raporta, GUS                         1,145               11.1      7.4          -3.9       -0.2         4.9         3.2       3.8         3.9        4.9
Rapram, GM1                          1,161              -26.3    12.5            H1A        1.3         3.3         3.3       3.7         3.9        4.9
Gnu. ?&Iiami Smug.                     318                4.1      4.3          -61.9      68.6        -3.7         2.6       2.4         6.3       12.8
GM Deflator - local camicy (1984 -100)                  36.9   100.0            115.1      131.4      147.8       162.6      178.9      196.2       221.2
Eqar Prim  bidez (1964 - 100)                          113.0   111.0            102.7     134.9       125.0       127.2     130.8       35.1       141.9
hpart Price Lt.oc (1991 - 100)                          94.1   100.0            100.8     105.7       112.A       116.9     122.6       128.8       135.2
mhns of Trade inst (198 - 100)                         134.    1111.0           101.9     118.2        11.3       108.8     106.7       109.4       104.9
Shint of (MP kt Ihe PIde    (2)                              Awere Anual Iwncises CZ)
(ar oxrrent prices) of
Aetal                        Projected                __       ,       __    e  _        __)
1960    1970    1975    19e4       1985    1990            1960-70  1970-75  1975-80   19904   1985-90
(k'a. ~dmtc Phunc                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 6.5       64A      5.4      -1.1       3.5
- Agrtoiltu-r                                  26.0    22.5    20.5    18.1    21.9   23.9                   5.7    3.          1.8       1.9       2.7
: ahiny                                        19.7    24.2    24.8    24.4    22.4   25.3                   94       9.6       6.2      -3.1       4.3
ferrIes                                        54.3    53.3    54.7    57.5    55.8    55.8                  5.7       6    3  6.2       -1.2       3.5
_ainuptiai                                       87.3    86.2    86.2    83.7    84.3    83.8                  6.3      4.3       6.6      -2.2      3.4
e   htet                              62-57                       188          -10          52           .           .          .          [74.      3.8
m     , rm    t                                  17.5    20.5    21.6    26.6    16.8    17.1                  7.1       6.5     10.5    -.4          .
fircs,   s                                       21.4    28.5    30.1    26.5    38.4    37.6                 10.       8.2       5.6       0.8       3.3
cprla, GUs                                       26.2    35.0    38.5    36.9    39.5    386                  10.0      3.2      11.0    -10.6        3.1
coe  tri_cul Swhg-                               12.9    13.0    10.6        9.8     7.1    10.8               4.1      4.1       2.8    -11.5        9.1
As Z of G'                      Labor tme lin 1983            16111cM         (1)
1981        1984        195
c knit %r1ams                                              17.6 I16.9              2666                                                           31268  1
Grist t.d1t4-z                                             21.4            IO.8    21.7            IniJl-ty                         169           19
s-pls (+  or deftdt (                                      -3.6          5.6        4.9            Services and otber               390           44
Omp-i al zemlitur                                          10.2          7.4        5.3            DMpVloyai                         50            -
Owewisa   PqJc sectur Deficit C-)                         -U.7          -0.2       -0.9
Threlp Plaaixlzw. net                                       8.3          1.2        3.1                 TMBI IAbor Force            577          100
Penal                              Projected
1975-99                             19     1970-
o= n
GW Ccwth RAte (2)                                                      5.2                                  4.7
cW Per                                               8.       86ta toch Rame ()  2.3                        2.2
IbugientaSer   Rate (1)                                                4.6                                 36.8
*      pqt ElasBdicy                                                        2.1                                  1.0
*   a/ prjets9 1n 9c t 1984 Prim



ANN   I
Page 5 of 5
COSTA RICA: RALANCE OF PAYHENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT, 1984-1991
(MILLIONS OF US$)
Historical                                               Projected
1984        1985                1986         1987         1988        1989         1990         1991
DAIAWx OF PAYSUS
Exports of Goods and NFS                            1,271.1      1,203.3            1,325.7        1,587.2     1,679.0      1,799.7      1,946.2    2,135.3
Goods, f.o.b.                                      (997.6)      (933.5)          (1,030.7)     (1.242.1)   (1,307.6)   (1,395.0)   (1,511.8)  (1,665.4)
Nbn-fEactor Services                               (273.6)      (269.8)            (295.0)        (345.1)     (371.4)      (401.7)      (434.4)    (469.9)
Imports of Goods 8 NFS                              1,225.2      1,236.4            1,303.3        1,500.1     1,613.5      1,754.6      1,914.3    2,085.6
Goods, c.i.f.                                    (1,102.2)   (1,109.0)           (1,104.4)     (1,299.8)   (1,396.5)   (1,519.0)   (1,658.0)  (1,808.1)
Nbn-factor Services                                (123.3)      (127.4)            (198.9)       (200.3)      (217.0)      (235.6)     (256.3)    (277.5)
Net Exports of Goods & NFS                            -45.9       -11.2                22.4           87.1        65.5         45.1         31.9       49.7
Net Factor Income                                    -313.5       -308.3             -371.1        -378.7       -387.6       -396.7      -400.2      -402.7
of which:  interest Payments                      (-314.0)    (-303.2)            (-320.4)      (-303.1)    (-324.0)    (-333.2)    (-337.0)   (-340.0)
on Official MLT Debt
Not Current Transfers                                  24.0         25.0               30.0           35.0        40.0         42.0         45.0       47.0
CURRENT ACOOUNT BALAcE                               -335.4       -294.5             -318.7        -256.6       -282.1       -309.6      -323.3      -306.0              N
Official Grants                                       108.9        175,6               85.0          85.0         80.0         80.0         80.0       75.0
Net Direct Foreign Tnvestment                          50.0         50.0               50.0          60.0         70.0         90.0         90.0      110.0
Nat Medium and Lang-Term                              152.5        220.7               43.5          109.0       102.7         72.7         56.2       55.0
Disbursements                                       262.1       323.1               218.0         319,1        302.3        268.6       298.1       262.7
Asortixation Payments                              -109.6      -102.4              -174.5        -210.1       -199.6       -195.9      -241.9      -207.7
Other Capital 1/                                      -34.0         85.8               70.0           70.0        70.0         80.0         80.0       80.0
Change in Overall Balance (- - increase)               58.0      -237,6                70.2         -67.4        -40.6        -13.1       -17.1       -14.0
L    CAPITL AND Dr
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                      3,314.6      3,535.3            3,578.8       3,687.8       3,790.5    3,863.2       3,912.4    3,974.7
Dabt Service Payments 3/                              423.6        405.6              494.9         513.2         523.6       529.1        578.9      547.7
Debt Serviee Paymnts as %
of exports (GPNFS)                                   33.3        33.7                37.3          32.3         31.2         29.4        29.7        25.6
Interest Payments as I of exports (G&NFS)              24.7        25.2                24.2          19.1         19.3         18.4         17.3       15.9
Memorandum Item
Asortization Rescheduled                            (-229.4)    (-292.0)            (-219.7)      (-310.0)    (-360.0)    (-320.0)    (-325.0)    (-340.0)
Interest Rescheduled                                   t-)       (35.9)               (-5.8)          H)          ()           (-)           -)(
Source: Central Bank of Costa Rica, IMF, Bank Staff Estimates.
I/ Includes IMP transactions, short-term capital movements and capital not elsewhere included.
i/Includes unpaid interest payment obligations; excludes unpaid amortization payment obligations.
Preliminary.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A. STAThEM    OP BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS    (Net of cancellations)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Loan or
Credit   Year   Borrower              Purpose                     Bank 2/  IDA Undisbursed
No.                                                                  (US$ millions)
Twenty-five loans and one credit fully disbursed.            346.3     5.5
1845     1980   Government           Highways                  30.0      -          5.8
1935     1981   AyA                  Water Supply              26.0      -         20.5
2019     1981   Government           Petroleum Technical        3.0      -           .8
Assistance
2518     1985   Government           Structural Adjustment    80.0       -         40.0
2519     1985   Government           Technical Assistance       3.5      -          3.2
Total                                               488.B      5.5
of which has been repaid                          121.4      1.3
Amount sold                     11.1
of which has been repaid      11.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      356.3     4.2
Total undisbursed                                    70.3      -
Total now outstanding                               2B6.0     4.2
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX I1
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEIENT OF IFC INYESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Year     Obligor                         Type of Business      Loan  Equity  Total
(US$ millions)
1963-76  Productos de Concreto, S.A.    Cement & Construc-   0.38    0.21   0.59
tion Material
1978     Scott Paper Company de          Pulp and Paper        2.50    -      2.50
Costa Rica, S.A.                Products
1979     Maricultura, S.A.               Food and Food         1.40    0.70   2.10
Processing
1982     Matas de Costa Rica, S.A.       Ornameneal Plants    1.52    -       1.52
_   -        _
Total gross comnitments                                        5.80    0.91   6.71
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales       3.73    0.91   4.64
Total commitments now held by IFC                              2.07    -      2.07
Tt  ==_us
Total undisbursed-                                                     -      -



- 30 -
ANNEX III
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
:   (a) Time taken to prepare project:                                     12 months
*     ~(b) Project Prepared by:  the Government's Agrarian Development
Institute (ADI) under the overall supervision of the Regional
Unit for Technical Assistance or RUTA (UNDP Project RLAI79/008)
Cc) First Presentation to the Bank:                               December 1984
Cd) First Bank Mission:                                           November 1984
Ce) Appraisal Departure:                                               June 1985
CE) Completion of Negotiations:                                        July 1986
(g) Planned Dare of Effectiveness:                                 January 1986
* II.SpecilEBankImplementationActions -None
III. Special Conditions
Ca) hiring internationally by BNCR of an expert in cocoa-coconut cultivation,
whose qualifications and experience would be acceptable to thie Bank, as a
condition of effectiveness (para 52);
Cb) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and BNCR
acceptable to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness (para 56);
(a) signing of a contractual agreement betwee1n the Borrower and AD acceptable
*      ~~to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness (pars 57);
(d) establishment by the Borrower in the Central Bank of a Special Account In
U.S. dollars to cover eligible expenditure, to be maintained throughout
project implementation (parsa. 61);
Ce) establishment by the Borrower in the Central Bank of a Project Account
with an initial deposit equivalent to US$1.0 million in local currency to
cover counterpart expenditures, as a condition of effectiveness (para. 61);
CE) establishment of a Project Coordination Unit in MIDEPLAN, with membership
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, by not later than December 31,
1986 (para. 63);
(g) establishment by the Borrower of a Project Steering Committee, with
membership and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as a condition of
effectiveness (para 64).



. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     t~ C   e 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 - 
,,I                 I\_\                     '\;                0 
i~AEMNA
'gi
/                    */                                        , .1F 
ok.MA -wo         MC*RA                                                              t  P   P_de
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~- |   ~~   r-                        '         carbbean.
-- k COSTA > ........
I  *_s \e v- AItES                            * 
RWLBA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~L
'oke M       M RCARAU
FtcificOcean    '  ~                                              -                KIOMbeER
,r~~~~~~~~~~AE OFr                                W 9
*. K
O                            *  o   0-   Peters  -rda  -es.* W   teSu'mse  i.ufin,  Eu tfl
..r O                  -             Xh                                                                    5  - /
. . .;   .  .  - . .  ,,  , -   .  ,, - ff -   ,  C   ,  ,,  .\E,r,,    nbS4 Sb EW,bs 51IFshIhttfa ad isshsfl,5_    CsflW stam
..  b    th 51 s .*..   facouhe.. .  ff. e _ _ .
. ' '   . ~ ~      ~        ~        ~         ~       ~        ~        r-m



B3'O3'                                                                   82'r.....................                      . (BRD 19391
52 Jo ,&r
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-    PROJECT AREA BOUNDAR
AREAS RECOMMENDEO FOG COCONUTS AND COCOA
PROJECT ROADS (numbft c Qonuc to ki In mpit)
--  ROADS
MAJOR PORT
4   1 t P AiLROADS
4CARPOA
PUE MEJO
kSwmp
flY'
1C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0O'
\''r                                                                                                             I
,.- 'In  'i\
l             vI ,r~~~~8-,W (A                                                                i"
N                               IIJ 
-% >
I'  ~. -                                   ,>             '
4.      ,jf          CA4U



