Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
~4A/. 2>(2-CA
Report No. 5953-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 24, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Colon (C)
US$1.00          =  C 51.1
C 1.00           =  US$0.019
US$1 million    =  C 51,200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)                             10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)            =      0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                     =      2.20 pounds
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton (m ton)   =        0.98 long ton
ACRONYMS
ADI      -  Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario (Agrarian Development Institute).
ASBANA   -  Asociacion Bananera Nacional (National Banana Association).
BNCR     -  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica (National Bank of Costa Rica).
CATIE    -  Centro Agronomico Tropical para la Investigacion y Ensenanza
(Tropical Agricultural Research and Training Center).
CNP      -  Consejo Nacional de Produccion (National Production Council).
IDB      -  Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (Inter-American Development
Bank).
IICA     -  Instituto Inter-Americano de Cooperacion Agricola (Inter-American
Institute for Agricultural Cooperation).
JAPDEVA  -  Junta de Administracion Portuaria de Desarrollo de la Vertiente
Atlantica (Board for Administration of Ports and Development of
the Atlantic Basin).
MAG      -  Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia (Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock).
MIDEPLAN - Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica (Ministry of
Planning and Political Economy).
MOPT     -  Kinisterio de Obras Publicas y Transportes (Ministry of Public
Works and Transportation).
SEPSA    -  Secretaria Ejecutiva de Planificacion Sectorial de Desarrollo
Agropecuario y de Recursos Naturales Renovables (Agricultural
Sector Planning Secretariat).
UNDICO   -  BNCR's Programs Direction and Coordination Unit.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CHAPTER                                                                 Page No.
I,  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................................... .    1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .. ...        ....................... . ....    3
Role in the National Economy ................  ... .............. .    3
The Resource Base and Development Potential ....................    3
Export Prospects ......... 0........................                 4
Institutional Framework                ..........    4
Banking System and Agricultural Credit ........................ .    5
Government's Development Strategy and Agricultural Sector 
Issues ....,...........................                          6
Role of the Bank in the Sector             .      ........    6
III. THE PROJECT               ............ ..... .  7
Background .     .     ...................................................   7
Objective and Description       . ..........................         7
Project Cost and Financing . ....................................    9
Procurement ............. .... .... .                   ..   .      10
Disbursement ..............,,,,,,,,,,.,.,,.................   11
Implementation .. ............................ .   11
Subloan Policies and Procedures   ,..                               13
Environmental Impact .................................   . . ... .   14
Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation..                     14
Accounts and Audits        ................... .  ... .14
Benefits ..................................   14
Project Risk,,,, ..........................................   15
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Costa Rica during June/July, 1985. The mission comprised Messrs.:
T. Haile-Mariam (Team Leader/Ag. Economist), R. Bronkhorst (Agriculturist),
H. Griesshaber (Financial Analyst), 0. Schulz (Agriculturist), and J. Lanas
(Transport Engineer).
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Detailed Features of the Project ................................         18
Ao  Introduction........e.e......... e..     ee..... .................    18
B. The Project Area .................................... .......          18
C.  Major Project Components....................*. ...... ........        19
De Project                 Cs ...                    .      .........    .................. . . a........  23
Tables
1.  Cropping Pattern Without and With Project .............          24
2.  Establishment Cost for Model 1........................           25
3. Establishment Cost for Model 2..............   26
4.  Establishment Cost for Model 3..................    ......       27
5.  Establishment Cost for Model 4........................           28
6.  Establishment Cost for Model 5......................             29
7.  Annual Farm Labor Requu rements ......................           30
8.  List of Project Roads .................................          31
9.  Minimum Design Standards 'or Project Roads ............          32
10.  List of Vehicles and Equipment .......................           33
11.  Project Cost Estimate.  .......................... .             34
12.  Schedule of Expenditures ...............................         35
13.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan .......          37
2.  The Banco Nacional De Costa Rica .......................... .             38
A.  Introduction ......... 0.0 .................................................  38
B. The Bankiug System .................................                   38
C   BNCR... .... .  ..... .. .........       .... ...............         39
Tables
1.  Interest Rate Schedule .....  ..... .. .........                 43
2.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Financial Ratios .......          45
3.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Balance Sheet ..........          46
4.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Disbursements by Sector
and Parts of the Country in 1984            ..                48
5.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Delinquent Portfolio...           49
6.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Profit and Loss
Statement ................ 0. ..................              50
7.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Projection
of Balance Sheet ............... ......      . ..    .        51
8.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Projection of Income
Statement ............ .........        ..... .       .       52
9.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Projection of Flow
of Funds ............................................  '       3
10.  Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Receipts and
Disbursements Under Project .          ........................  54



- ili -
Page No.
3.  Benefits and Justification .....................................         55
A. I  pact on Production .......................................         55
B, Marketing ............................................................ 56
C.                   ares.................................. ....         56
D. Output Prices .......        .      ...................................  57
E.  Impact on Beneficiaries' Income ............................         57
F. Economic Rate of Return .........................    ...........      57
G.  Impact on Foreign Exchange Earnings ........................         59
Tables
1.  Crop Output from Area to be Developed Under Project ...         60
2.  Farmgate Prices Used for Financial and Economic
Analysis ...os.... so............................ *..D........  61
3.  Derivation of Farmgate Prices in 1986 for Cocoa and
Copra ..... 6..........................................      62
4.  Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection for
Model 1 .............. o .............66666666..              63
5.  Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection for
Model 2 ...................................66........6        64
6.  Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection for
Model 3  ..  ..6666666....... ................oe .....6.......  65
7.  Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection for
Model 4 ....... .............6.........66         66
8.  Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection for
Model 5       ... * .     .....6......66...... 6.......       67
9.  Benefit Streams Without and With Project ..............         68
10.  Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 1....          69
11.  Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 2 ....         70
12.  Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 3 ....         71
13.  Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 4 ....         72
14.  Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 5 ....         73
15.  Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for All Farms..          74
16.  Economic Cost and Benefit Streams .....................         75
4.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ......         76
CHART
World Bank 30063 - Timetable of Implementation of Project
Roads .......................................        77
MAP
IBRD 19391 - Project Area.



COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Costa Rica.
Beneficiary:        National Bank of Costa Rica (BNCR).
Loan Awoeut:        US$26 million equivalent.
Terms:              17 years including four vears of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would relend to BNCR US$22.5 million equiva-
lent in Colones of the Bank Loan for 17 years including
4 years of grace. BNCR would repay the Government the
principal plus interest, the latter being equal to the
market rate that the farmers would pay, less a fixed
spread to BNCR of 6% to cover subloan administration,
technical assistance, and the lending risk on the sub-
loans. The Borrower would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Objective
and Description:   The principal objective of the proposed project would be
to expand the production of agricultural exports, in sup-
port of the Government's economic recovery and structural
adjustment program. In order to achieve its principal
objective, the proposed project would: (a) provide agri-
cultural credit for financing the development of selected
export crops, including rehabilitation or replanting of
about 4,500 ha and new planting of about 2,500 ha of
cocoa; (b) improve about 104 km of rural roads; Cc) issue
about 1,500 land titles; and (d) strengthen project
administration. Under the overall coordination of the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy, the project
would be impieminted by the following agencies: the
National Bank of Costa Rica or BNCR (credit); the
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation (roads); and
the Agrarian Development Institute (land titling).
Benefits and Risk:  The economic rate of return is estimated at about 18%,
with incomes of beneficiaries projected to increase by
about 160% at full development. Foreign exchange
earnings over the assumed project life of 40 years are
estimated at about US$290 million. The principal risk
would stem from a slower than projected rate of adoption
of the technological packages for cocoa-coconut cultiva-
tion, which could reduce expected increases in export
growth. To help lessen this risk, BNCR would provide to
the beneficiaries an intensive and sustained technical
assistance, with the assistance of an internationally
recruited expert.



-2-
Project Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
------(US$ million)-   --
Credit                            28.2        7.1        35.3
Roads                              1.2        2.5         3.7
Land Titling                       0.6        0.1         0.7
Technical Assistance and
Project Administration           1.3        0.5         1.8
Base Cost                   31.3       10.2         41.5
Contingencies
Physical                         0.2        0.2         0.4
Expected Price Increases         0.9        0.7         1.6
Subtotal                      1.1       0.9          2.0
Total Cost                  32.4       11.1         43.5
Financing Plan:
Bank                              14.9       11.1        26.0
BNCR                               2.5       -            2.5
Government                         4.0        -           4.0
Beneficiaries                     11.0       -           11.0
Total                       32.4       11.1         43.5
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
----------------------(USC million)-
Annual          0.7    2.9    4.0    4.6    4.6    4.6    3.2    1.4
Cumulative     0.7    3.6    7.6   12.2   16.8   21.4   24.6   26.0
Economic Rate
of Return: 18%.
Appraisal
Report:  No. 5953-CR dated September, 1986.
MAP: IBRD 19391.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Role in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture is a key sector in the Costa Rican economy.  It
accounts for about 20X of GDP (of which 65% originates from coffee, bananas,
cocoa and sugar, 10% from basic grains, 15% from livestock, 3% from forestry,
and the remaining 7% from other crops and fisheries) and employs about 32% of
the labor force. The sector also accounts for about 70% of total exports.
About 60% of these exports are provided by five traditional primary products:
coffee and bananas (26% each), beef (4%), and sugar and cocoa (4%); non-
traditional agricultural commodities (including unprocessed vegetables,
fruits, flowers, spices, and seafood) provide nearly 10% of exports. Food
imports account for nearly 1OZ of imports, principally wheat, maize, beans,
dairy products, sorghum and oilseeds.
2.02      Fueled by favorable external markets, especially for bananas and
coffee, agricultural production grew rapidly during the 1960s and early 1970s
at an average annual rate of over 5%. From the mid-1970s, however, growth
rates declined, averaging about 1% in the early 1980s, due mainly to sluggish
external markets.
The Resource Base and Development Potential
2.03      There is considerable room for increasing and diversifying
production through both higher productivity and expanding the cropped area.
Coffee and banana yields are among the highest in the world, but this is not
the case with cocoa, sugarcane, and the basic grains. Cocoa yields could
be doubled through the application of improved cultural practices such as
pest, disease and weed control, proper density of planting and timing of
operations, and application of fertilizers; similar yield increases could be
obtained for other crops.
2.04       Of the total agricultural area of about 4.9 million ha,
520,000 ha (11%) is actually cropped, the remainder being under pastures
(49%) and forests (402). The four traditional export commodities occupy
about 190,000 ha, with coffee accounting for 110,000 ha, bananas and cocoa
25,000 ha each, and sugarcane 30,000 ha. Basic grains and other commodities
occupy the balance of the crop land.
2.05       The agricultural and cropped lands are distributed in three
principal zones: the Pacific Lowlands, the Central Highlands, and the
Atlantic and Northern Lowlands. The Pacific Lowlands account for
2.2 million ha (45%) of the agricultural land, of which about 210,000 ha are
cropped; the potential crop land in this zone is estimated at about
1.2 million ha. The Central Highlands account for 1.1 million ha of the
agricultural Land (22%), of which 210,000 ha are under crops; the potential
cropland in this zone is estimated at about 350,000 ha. The Atlantic and
Northern Lowlands have 1.6 million ha of the agricultural land (33%), of
which about 100,000 ha are cropped; the potential crop land in this zone is
estimated at about 600,000 ha.



-4-
Export Prospects
2.06      Agricultural products will continue to constitute the bulk of
exports in the foreseeable future. The medium-term prospects for rapid
growth are limited by international market constraints and difficulties in
rapidly increasing production. In the coffee subsector, recent price
increases will increase export revenues in the short-term, however, the
long-term growth prospects remain limited. For bananas and beef, some growth
in exports is possible. For sugar, the prospects are constrained by quotas
in protected markets, and by limited opportunities for profitable exports
outside these markets. For cocoa, increased production and exports depend
mainly on farmers applying modern disease control measures.
2.07      Of the five traditional export crops, cocoa has promising potential
for rapid growth to restore production to levels reached in the early 1970s.
Production fell sharply in the late 1970s and early 1980s due mainly to the
outbreak of the virulent Frosty Pod disease. As a result, current output is
less than 25Z of the level attained in the late 1970s when the disease was
first detected in Costa Rica.
2.08      Regarding other agricultural products, some success has been
achieved in exporting various vegetables, fruits, copra, macadamia nuts, palm
hearts, spices, and flowers, particularly to the U.S. and European markets.
Further growth is possible, but will require increasing promotional and
technical support by the Government, as well as involvement by foreign
partners, to provide technical, managerial, and marketing advice, as already
happens with some crops, such as macadamia nuts.
Institutional Framework
2.09      The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) has overall responsibility for
agricultural and rural development. There are three other key agencies. The
first is the National Production Council (CNP) which is responsible for
stabilizing domestic food prices and promoting self-sufficiency in basic
grains, mainly by setting producer prices for rice, beans, corn and sorghum
and carrying out a variety of marketing and other activities, including
importation of basic grains. The second is the Agrarian Development
Institute (ADI), which is responsible for land settlement programs. The
third is the Agricultural Sector Planning Secretariat (SEPSA) under the
overall coordination of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
(MIDEPLAN), which is responsible for sectoral planning and policy formula-
tion. For the Atlantic Region, there is a Board for Administration of Ports
and Development of the Atlantic Basin (JAPDEVA), which is influential in
planning economic development of the region.
2.10      The above institutional framework is complemented by a variety of
mixed Government and private sector associations which provide technical,
marketing and other support services to their members. Of particular
importance are the organizations for coffee and sugar producers, as well as
the National Banana Association (ASBANA). There are also two international
agencies headquartered in Costa Rice: the Tropical Agricultural Research and
,raining Cetiter (CATIE), which is active in research on tropical fruits,



- 5 -
including cocoa; and the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural
Cooperation (IICA), which provides technical assistance.
Banking System and Agricultural Credit
2.11      Costa Rica's financial system is comprised of both public and
private banks, but is dominated by four public banks which account for about
90% of the total assets of the banking system. These four banks, of which
the National Bank of Costa Rica (BNCR) is the largest, account for virtually
all institutional credit to the agricultural sector. BNCR is also the most
experienced and active in lending for agriculture, and would be responsible
for implementing the credit component of the proposed project.
2.12       Like all of the public banks, BNCR has long been isolated from
market forces, and faces financial difficulties, institutional and managerial
constraints. This results from an inadequate legal and regulatory framework,
weak capital structure, large arrears problems, and high operating costs.
Moreover, the Government has subsidized interest rates on loans to small
farmers, resulting in burden on the public budget. To begin addressing these
issues, which are common to all the public banks, the Government has taken a
number of steps, including modifications to the Money and Central Bank laws
to facilitate improved use of external resources, and improved flexibility in
the credit allocation system. The Central Bank has begun to give market
forces a role in the determination of interest rates by allowing individual
public banks to set their own  tasa basica  based on demand, their cost of
funds, and other market criteria. Further actions to improve the public
banks are being supported under the ongoing Technical Assistance Loan or TAL
(Loan 2519-CR) which provides for consultant assistance to design and help
implement specific measures to improve credit policy and processing,
including reducing arrears and strengthening loan appraisal capability and
administration procedures; accelerate efforts to streamline operations and
introduce data processing; and analyze the need for changes in the banks'
decision making processes and staffing requirements. Further efforts to
improve the efficiency of BNCR and other public banks are expected to be
tackled under the proposed banking sector loan, currently under preparation.
In this context, additional actions are under discussion with the Government
and Central Bank on ways to make interest rate and credit allocation policies
market oriented, further improve the portfolio and efficiency of the public
banks, strengthen overallbanking supervision, and foster increased competi-
tion between public and private banks.
2.13       To complement the efforts described above to improve the banking
system in general, and the public banks in particular, the proposed project
would support specific improvements in the operation of BNCR to enable it to
carry out the project effectively. Such improvements would include more
efficient subloan processing and supervision, and more intensive technical
assistance to sub-borrowers (paras. 3.21 and 3.22). These improvements,
while strengthening BNCR's operating efficiency, are also expected to reduce
arrears on subloans to b. financed under the proposed project, through
improved guidelines for appraisal and supervision of investments. Further-
more, the onlending interest rates would be consistent with market conditions
at the time the subloans are approved. Although it is possible for market
interest rates on long-term loans to turn negative in times of accelerating
inflation, Government's success so far in containing inflation, if main-
tained, should minimize this risk. Meanwhile, variable rate lending would be
examined as part of the periodic review of onlending rates under the project.



- 6 -
Government's Development Strategy and Agricultural Sector Issues
2.14      The principal objectives of the Government's agriculture develop-
ment strategy are to: (a) expand exports; (b) encourage production of basic
grains; and (c) maintain domestic price stability in food items. However,
the prevailing policy framework has not always been consistent with the
objectives: the trade incentive system favored manufacturing over agricul-
ture; and export agriculture has been hurt by an overvalued exchange rate
(until 1980), high export taxes, and export restriction and domestic price
control on beef. In addition, efforts to encourage basic grains production
by intervening in the marketing of the commodities through the National
Production Council (CNP), and generous input subsidies, including preferen-
tial credit and crop insurance, resulted in fiscal losses.
2.15      The Government has begun correcting its policies towards the sector
under its structural adjustment program, the first phase of which was
supported under the Structural Adjustment Loan or SAL (Loan 2518-CR). This
involved: (a) adoption of new trade regime to begin rationalizing effective
protection in industry which would reduce the bias against agriculture;
(b) exchange rate adjustments; (c) reduction of export taxes on bananas; and
(d) reduction of CNP's losses through appropriate price and other policy
adjustments. The lack of satisfactory progress in reducing CNP's losses
resulted in the need for additional price and other actions which were taken
in May and June of 1986 . The Government is also in the process of expanding
extension services and reorienting research activities to support new export
crops through a nationwide program of technology development and transfer
financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
2.16      To help lay the foundation for further reform, the Government is in
the process of undertaking a study of the agricultural sector, financed under
the TAL (Loan 2519-CR) to: (a) review the effectiveness and benefits of
existing price and subsidy policies, and (b) propose alternative policies
which would encourage production in line with the country's comparative
advantage. Consultants to undertake the study are in process of beiug
recruited, and the study is expected to be completed in 1987. Policy
improvements which emerge from this study could be supported within the
framework of additional policy based lending.
Role of the Bank in the Sector
2.17      Since 1968, the Bank nas made three loans to the agricultural
sector totalling US$30 million. The first two loans (Loan 538-CR and
Loan 827-CR) were for credit projects and the third (Loan 1410-CR) was for a
nationwide project involving credit, rural roads, seeds production and
strengthening of the extension service. All three projects were implemented
satisfactorily, although the performance of project implementing agencies
under Loan .A10-CR was mixed. In particular, efforts to introduce the
training and visit system into MAG's extension service were unsuccessful,
owing mainly to MAG's lack of commitment as well as increasing budgetary
constraints. In addition, the Project Unit in the Central Bank was not given
the staff and authority needed to adequately coordinate the credit component.
The Project Completion Report recommended that future projects: (a) avoid



- 7 -
the use of the Central Bank as executing agency since such a role is beyond
its general mandate; (b) strengthen project management, monitoring and
evaluation; and (c) minimize the number of project components to ensure less
complex administrative, supervision and coordination arrangements.
2.18      The future role of the Bank in the sector would focus on two main
areas. First, the Bank would continue working with the Government to improve
the macroeconomic and sector policy environment to enhance rapid and sustain-
able sectoral growth and development; the proposed banking sector loan and
subsequent policy based lending operacion would support this. Second, the
Bank would support, through project lending, private sector efforts to
increase production of agricultural exports. Further development of Costa
Rica's traditional agricultural exports and promotion of new agricultural
exports is essential if the country is to resume sustained growth. The Bank
intends to help in this by providing a blend of financial and technical
support. The proposed project fits the above strategy. It was designed to
support private sector efforts to increase production of agricultural
exports, and focuses on investments which are financially and economically
attractive.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01      The proposed project would be located in the Atlantic and Northern
Lowlands zone (Map IBRD 19391) where some of the country's key agricultural
exports, including cocoa, are grown. It was prepared under a previous
agricultural project (Loan 1410-CR), and was appraised during June/July,
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. during July 23-25, 1986.
The Costa Rican delegation was led by the Minister of Planning, Mr. Otten
Solis.
Objective and Description
3.02      The key objective of the proposed project is to expand the
production of agricultural export commodities, consistent with the Bank's
assistance strategy for Costa Rica. Under the proposed project, the Bank's
role would be to help finance an integrated program of investment and
technical assistance using improved technology researched and developed
locally. In this way, the Bank would support private sector efforts to
increase production for export, especially cocoa, which has considerable
potential, but which has been faced with declining production owing to
disease problems.
3.03      In order to meet its objective, the pro-posed projec. would:
(a) provide agricultural credit for financing the development of selected
export crops, including about 7,000 ha of cocoa mostly intercultivated with
coconut palms; (b) improve about 105 km of rural roads; (c) issue about 1,500
land titles; (d) provide technical assistance; and (e) strengthen project
administration. These are described below.



-8-
3.04      Agricultural Credit.  The proposed export crop development program
would include rehabilitating about 3,000 ha of existing cocoa trees, replan-
ting about 1,500 ha of old cocoa fields, and new planting about 2,500 ha.
The projection is based on surveys of farms in the project area which was
undertaken to assess the potential for the proposed cocoa-coconut development
program. Cocoa production would be developed primarily by controlling the
Frosty Pod disease, which has been the principal cause of production declines
in the recent past. Extensive research on disease resistance and the life
cycle of the causal fungus Moniliophthora roreri has been undertaken by
CATIE, which has developed some 24 disease-tolerant hybrids. It has also
developed control measures for the disease which include reduction of
humidity in plantations, shade and weed control, pruning, proper drainage,
and early detecrion and removal of diseased pods. The research has been
tested under field conditions with impressive results, and the rec .umended
technology is already being applied by some progressive farmers. doth the
CATIE developed cocoa hybrids as well as disease control measures would be
utilized by farmers participating in the project. In the case of coconut,
high yielding hybrids developed by ASBANA would be planted. Investment would
include the costs of establishment; and maintenance of the young trees
through the first year of production, three years in the case of cocoa and
four years for coconut.
3.05      Roads. The road network in the project area is inadequate.  The
proposed project would include rehabilitation of six sections of roads
(about 25 km) and construction of five sections (about 80 km).  Engineering
designs for 35% of the roads have been completed, and the designs for the
remaining 65% would be completed by the end of 1987. The proposed project
would also provide road maintenance equipment to MOPT for use in the project
area to ensure adequate maintenance of the road network.
3.06      Land Titles.  Nearly 20% of the farmers in the proposed project
area lack clear land titles, which are needed to get institutional credit.
Although the land is owned by the Government, the farmers havs. acquired the
right to use it through many years of cultivation. Titling would involve
legally transferring the land to the farmers; the ADI has the responsibility
and authority to do this. ADI's procedures for issuing land titles would
include surveys, measurement and demarcation of boundaries, preparation of
maps, and registration of ownership. The proposed project would finance
vehicles for supervising the titling work, and cost of land surveys. Lending
under the credit component of the proposed project would start with farmers
who already have clear titles to their holdings, while farmers who do not now
have titles but would get them under the proposed project would participate
in the credit program during the latter years of the project.
3.07      Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component would
include 36 man-months of internationally recruited technical assistance to
provide training to farmers and technicians of BNCEL in improved cocoa-coconut
cultivation techniques. Initially, an expert in cocoa and coconut production
would be hired for one year, with complementary technical assistance in
extension training and specialized fields such as disease control to be
provided as required. The technical staff of MAG would complement BNCR's
technicians in extending technology to farmers. Recruitment internationally



-9-
by BNCR of an expert in cocoa-coconut cultivation whose qualifications and
experience would be acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 4.02 (a)).
3.08      Project Administration.  The proposed project would be administered
by existing agencies of the Government. Except for the credit component,
which would require about 15 additional staff, no additional staff would be
required. BNCR's technical staff would be trained by CATIE under an existing
agreement; supplementary in-service training would be provided by the above-
mentioned consultant (para. 3.07). The proposed project would include funds
for the purchase of vehicles for use by BNCR in the project area.
Project Cost and Financing
3.09      The total cost estimate of the proposed project, net of ta-,.es, is
about US$43.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$11.1 mil-
lion, or 25%. The base cost was calculated using mid-1986 prices. Physical
contingencies have been computed at 15% for civil works. Allowances for
expected price increases on the foreign exchange component have been computed
using the Bank's projection for international inflation.  For the local
component, the allowances are 11% for 1986, with the same rates as for !he
foreign exchange component applied thereafter.
3.10      A Bank loan of US$26 million is proposed.  This would finance 60% of
total project cost, including local currency financing of US$14.9 million
equivalent.  The proposed level of financing is justified given the severity
of Costa Rica's fiscal and balance of payments problems and the countrv's need
to ensure a continued inflow of capital from abroad to support its investment
program. The remaining financing would be provided by the Goverrnent
(US$4 million including US$2 million which the Government would lend to BNCR
to help finance the credit compon:nt), BNCR (US$2.5 millina). and the benefi-
ciaries of the credit program (US$11 million).
3.11      The Republic of Cbsta Rica, as the Borrower, would bear the foreign
excharge risk to be compensated through interest payments by beneficiaries of
subloans. The Borrower would onlend to BNCR US$22.5 million equivalent in
Colones of the proposed Bank loan and would lend it an additional US$2 million
equivalent in local currency from its own resources, for financing the credit
component of the project and the associated costs, under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and BNCR. In this Subsidiay Loan Agreement,
BNCR would be given a 6% spread to cover subloan administrative expenses, cost
of technical assistance to project beneficiaries, and the lending risk on the
subloans. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 4.02 (b)). The remaining
US$3.5 million of the proposed loan would be used to finance the road, and
land titling components.
3.12       To provide for the transfer of funds to ADI for carrying out the
land titling component, the Borrower would sign a contractual agreement with
ADI, acceptable to the Bank, as a condition of effectivenesss (para. 4.02 (c)).



- 10 -
Procurement
3.13      Vehicles and equipment for the road component (US$700,000) would be
procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Goods est4mated to cost below US$15,000 per contract but not
exceeding an aggregate of US$100,000 would be procured by local shopping with
written quotations from at least three suppliers; the vehicles and equipment
for i.-nd titling and project administration (US$72,000) are expected to fall
in this category. Civil works for road rehabilitation and construction
(US$3.8 million) would be tendered following local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The works, which would involve the rehabi-
litation of six sections and the construction of five sections over three
years, would be individually small, and are unlikely to attract foreign bids.
They would not be suitable for ICB procurement. Inputs to be financed under
the credit component would be procured by the beneficiaries through normal
commercial channels. For goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000
or more, the Bank would review and approve tender documents before they are
issued. For civil works, model bidding documents and contracts would be
submitted to the Bank for approval before advertising and tendering; award of
contracts would be reviewed by the Bank on an ex-post basis.
3.14       The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project
elements are shown as follows:
Procurement Procedures a/
Not
Item                      ICB       LCB         Others    Applicable    Total
- - - - - - - - - -(US$ million)- - - - - - - - - -
Vehicles & Equipment       0.7        -            0.1         -           0.8
(0.7)       -           (0.1)                   (0.8)
Civil Works                 -        3.8            -          -           3.8
(2.2)                                (2.2)
Consultants                                         -          0.5         0.5
(0.5)       (0.5)
Others b/                             -           38.4         -          38.4
(22.5)                  (22.5)
Total       0.7        3.8         38.5         0.5        43.5
(0.7)     (2.2)        (22.6)      (0.5)       (26.0)
a/   Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Loan.
b/   Mostly the credit component.



- 11 -
Disbursement
3.15      The proposed Bank loan of US$26 million would be disbursed over
seven years, based on the disbursement profile for agricultural credit pro-
jects in the Latin America and Caribbean Region. Disbursement would be made
against: 100Z of expenditures on vehicles and equipment (US$0.8 million) and
on consultant services (US$0.5 million), 60% of civil works contracts for
roads (US$2.2 million), and 90% of subloan amounts disbursed by BNCR
(US$22 million); US$0.5 million would be unallocated. Disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditures; the documentation would be retained
by the implementing agencies and made available to Bank staff during
supervision.
3.16      Establishment by the Borrower in the Centra' Bank of Costa Rica of
a Project Account with an initial deposit of US$1 million in local currency
to cover counterpart expenditures would be a condition of effectiveness
(para. 4.02 (d)). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Borrower would maintain the Project Account throughout the proposed project's
implementation period (para. 4.01 (b)(i)). Assurances were also obtained
that the Borrower would establish in the Central Bank of Costa Rica a Special
Account, in US dollars, to cover eligible expenditures arid maintain this
Special Account throughout the project's implementation period (para. 4.01
(b)(ii)). An initial deposit of US$1 million would be made by the Bank upon
receipt and approval of a satisfactory withdrawal application. Subsequent
replenishments by the Bank of the Special Account would follow normal
procedures and would be for the Bank's share of eligible expenditures.
Implementation
3.17      The first year of the proposed project is expected to be used
for setting-up the organization for project implementation; physical
implementation is expected to start in the second year.
3.18      Under the overall coordination of MIDEPLAN, the proposed project
would be implemented by: BNCR (credit and technical assistance), MOPT
(roads), arnd ADI (land titling). The research and extension services of MAG
would collaborate closely with BNCR in providing technical assistance to the
farmers. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower
that a Project Coordination Unit, with membership and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, would be established within its MIDEPLAN not later
than December 31, 1986 and maintain this unit throughout the proposed
project's implementation period (para. 4.01 (b)(iii)). Its responsibilities
would include: (a) consolidating project operational plans, and progress and
project completion reports, based on submissions of executing agencies;
(b) identifying implementation bottlenecks and ensuring that appropriate
measures are taken to resolve these bottlenecks; and (c) evaluating the
overall performance of the proposed project.
3.19       A ministerial level Project Steering Committee, consisting of
representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Transport, Agricul-
ture, and Exports, and of BNCR, ADI and JAPDEVA, would be established by the
Borrower as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan; the membership



- 12 -
and responsibilities would be acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.02 (e)). The
Committee, which would be chaired by the Minister of MIDEPLAN, would help
ensure smooth functioning of the different project components and resolve any
inter-institutional issues which may arise.
3.20      The BNCR would carry out the credit component through its Programs
Direction and Coordination Unit (UNDICO) which has its headquaters in
San Jose but operates through several field units attached to BNCR's bran-
ches/credit agencies. There are five branches/credit agencies serving the
proposed project area.
3.21      UNDICO has sufficient experience to carry out the project but its
staff of 40 technical personnel would be strengthened by recruitment of about
15 additional technicians, since the existing staff is engaged with
implementation of ongoing projects. The additional staff would provide a
technician to farmer ratio of 1:70 under the proposed project. Based on
experience elsewhere in Costa Rica, this ratio would enable each technician
to visit four to five farmers per day at intervals of about three weeks.
This frequency of farm visits would provide subborrowers with a satisfactory
level of technical and loan processing assistance, to insure that farmers
apply the technology to be recommended, attain the yield levels projected,
and be able to service their loans.
3.22      The proposed project would build on an on-going IDB technical
assistance program to UNDICO designed to strengthen their procedures in pro-
ject appraisal, supervision, nonitoring, and evaluation. Loan processing and
supervision would be further streamlined under the proposed project by dele-
gating more responsibility to, branch managers, who with the additional staff
provided, would have the capacity to assume this responsibility.  Complemen-
tary to this, loan applications for up to US$150,000 would be approved by the
branch managers, iith headquarters approving larger amounts.  The Bank would
review the appraisal of subloans exceeding US$300,000, which are not expected
to number more than about ten subprojects or 15% of the proposed loan. To
improve the portfolio management under the project, UNDICO would be required
to: (a) prepare and execute annual work plans covering lending and supervi-
sion activities; (b) provide technical support to farmers in preparing and
implementing subprojects; and (c) prepare progress reports and a completion
report on the credit component. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from BNCR that it would apply the above procedures for processing
subprojects (para. 4.01 (a)(i)).
3.23      MOPT would, through its Public Works Division, assume the responsi-
bility for carrying out the road component of the proposed project. Normal-
ly, the cantonal network 1/ falls under the jurisdiction of the cantons, but
inadequate financial resources and shortage of technical staff prevent the
cantons from executing effectively this responsibility. As a result, the
cantons continue to rely on MOPT for the development and maintenance of the
road network in their jurisdiction.
1/   Cantons are local administrative subdivisions equivalent to districts.



- 13 -
3.24      ADI, which has considerable experience in land titling, would be
responsible for issuing land titles. It would undertake the necessary cadas-
tral surveys, prepare maps, process titling through the legal system, and
issue titles.
Subloan Policies and Procedures
3.25      Eligibility.  The proposed project would finance investments to
increase the production of export-oriented agricultural crops in the Atlantic
Highlands. Although the commodity focus of the credit program is expected to
be on cocoa and copra, there would be no restriction on the development of
other export commodities such as tropical fruits, palm hearts, spices,
bananas, macadamia nuts, and flowers.
3.26       On-lending Terms.  The interest rate to be charged subborrowers
would be determined by market conditions and would be at least equal to the
"basic rate". 2/ Under present circumstances, the onlending rate would be at
least 17%, which is positive in real terms. in keeping with current policy
in Costa Rica, interest rates would be fixed once the subloans are approved.
As discussed in para. 2.13, the risk that interest rates on existing loans
could become negative in real terms is low because of Government's success in
containing the rate of inflation over the past few years, a trend which is
envisaged to be continued. The possibility of variable rate lending would
also be examined as part of the periodic review of onlending rates under the
project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BNCR and the
Borrower that the onlending interest rate to beneficiaries would be reviewed,
and if necessary adjusted, in consultation with the Bank, every June and
December to ensure that the onlending interest rate to new beneficiaries
would be at least equal to the basic rate (para. 4.01 (c)(i)).
3.27      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BNCR that other
onlending terms would include the following: (a) subloans would not exceed
75% of the total cost of investments; (b) subloans made to any sub-borrower
would not exceed in the aggregate US$500,000; and (c) the repayment period
would be established for each subloan on the basis of subproject analysis,
but would not exceed 15 years iL:luding a grace period of not more than four
years (para. 4.01 (a) (ii)).
3.28      Subloan Processing.  BNCR would ensure that lending decisions would
be taken on the basis of adequate appraisals te ensure that subprojects are
technically, financially and economically viable and that activities to be
financed are export oriented. It would supervise the subprojects closely to
ensure, inter alia, that farmers would apply recommended technological
packages.
2/   The basic rate, or tasa basica, is a deposit rate for six-aonth
deposits. Following recent changes approved by the Central Bank,
this rate is now determined by each bank individually based on market
conditions.



- 14 -
Environmental Impact
3.29      The proposed project would not have adverse impact on the environ-
ment. The closed canopy of cocoa would offer excellent protection against
the heavy rain and soil erosion in the foothills of the proposed project
area. Fertilizers (mainly compound fertilizer containing nitrogen, phos-
phorus, and potash) and pes't.cide (mainly malathion) would be applied under
guidance of project staff co minimize any harmful effects of their use.
Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.30      The implementing agencies would be responsible for preparing pro-
gress and completion reports on their respective components. The Project
Coordination Unit would coordinate the preparation of all reports, and conso-
lidate the same for submission to the Bank. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Borrower would submit to the Bank necessary data and
information on all project components through annual progress reports
beginning March 31, 1988 (para. 4.01 (b)(iv)).
3.31       The Project Coordination Unit, in collaboration with the implemen-
ting agencies, would monitor project implementation and evaluate the
results. Each implementing agency would use its own management information
system for monitoring the components under its jurisdiction.
Accounts and Audits
3.32      Separate project accounts would be maintained by BNCR, MOPT, and
ADI. The account of MOPT would be audited by the Auditor General of the
Republic. BNCR's account and its separate project account, ADI's Project
Account, as well as the Project and Special Accounts in the Central Bank of
Costa Rica, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would submit
certified copies of the audiLed project accounts of MOPT and ADI, as well as
the audited Project and the Special Accounts in the Central Bank of Costa
Rica annually to the Bank not later than six months after the close of the
Government's fiscal year, starting with the audit reports for the fiscal year
ending December 31, 1986 (para. 4.01 (b)(v)). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from BNCR that its overall accounts and its separate
project account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, and that it would submit to the Bank such audit reports not
later than six months after the close of BNCR's fiscal year, starting with
the fiscal year ending December 31, 1987 (para. 4.01 (a)(iii)).
Benefits
3.33      The proposed project would increase the production of cocoa and
coconut, the principal export crops to be promoted under the project. The
outputs of cocoa and coconut are expected to be exported in the form of cry
beans and copra, respectively. At full development, the incremental output
of cocoa is projected to be about 4,200 tons per year while for copra the
corresponding volume would amount to about 9,600 tons. The resulting foreign
exchange earnings are projected to reach US$8.5 million per year at full



- 15 -
development in constant 1985 prices, or about US$290 million over the life of
the project.
3.34      Cocoa is one of the traditional exports of Costa Rica, and there
are customary markets in the US, Europe, and Latin America. Due to a fall in
production, the export volume from Costa Rica has been declining consistently
in the recent past and now stands at about 2,000 tons per year compared to a
historical high of over 9,000 tons attained in the late 1970s. The proposed
project would help to restore part of the lost export, with the projected
incremental output to be exported mainly to Costa Rica's traditional markets.
3.35      Exports of copra from Costa Rica, mainly to Europe, have been
increasing in recent years, reflecting favorable market prospects. Exports
are now running at about 1,500 tons per year, and there is a growing private
sector investment in new plantings and coconut processing facilities. The
proposed project would result in a substantial expansion of copra exports,
while also making use of the coconut trees as shade for the cocoa plantings.
3.36      Marketing of both of the above products would continue to be done
by private merchants/processors, with no intervention by the Government
either in the physical handling of the products or in setting product prices.
The domestic prices, which correlate closely with international prices, are
determined by free interplay of demand and supply. Despite a declining trend
in the prices of both products, the beneficiaries would have substantial
financial gains which would provide adequate incentives for them to partici-
pate in the proposed project. About 1,040 farm families would benefit from
the project, some 20% of whom have per capita incomes of less than 30X of the
national average, and are part of the rural poor; about 10% of the project
benefits would accrue to them. The remaining 80% of the families have per
capita incomes equivalent to 30-50% of the national average. Incomes of
beneficiaries are expected to increase by an average of about 160%. The
financial rate of return on farm investments financed under the proposed
project would average about 40%.
3.37      The economic rate of return (ERR) on all project investments is
estimated at about 18%. The project would yield an ERR of about 13% even if
(a) costs increase or benefits decrease by 20%; (b) there is a lag of two
years in attaining the projected benefits; or (c) if the price of cocoa falls
by 20X.
Project Risk
3.38      The project faces the risk of a slower than projected rate of adop-
tion of the technological packages. Although cocoa has been grown in the
project area for many years, the farmers' attitude towards its cultivation
has been set back because of their bad experience with Frosty Pod disease;
that problem has been aggravated by falling prices of cocoa. There is,
therefore, a risk that farmers would move more slowly than expected to adopt
the new technological packages for cocoa-coconut cultivation. The possible
lover level of investment would result in lower than projected export growth.
To minimize this risk, the project provides for an intensive technical



- 16 -
assistance program to be carried out by BNCR. These efforts, together with
the example set by progressive farmers in the project area who have already
successiully improved their cocoa fields, should reduce the risk of lower
than expected farmer participation. The above crops were chosen to be the
main focus of the proposed project because the financial and economic rates
of return in investments in these crops would remain attractive even with
possible declines in their prices.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BNCR (Project
Agreement) and the Borrower (Loan Agreement) on the following:
(a) BNCR would:
Ci)    apply the procedures for processing sub-projects summarized
in para. 3.22;
(ii)    ensure that the terms and conditions of subloans would
include those summarized in para. 3.27; and
(iii)    have its overall accounts and its separate project account
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and submit to the Bank such audit reports not later
than six months after th-e close of BNCR's fiscal year,
starting with the fiscal year ending December 31, 1987
(para. 3.32).
Cb) The Borrower would:
'i)    maintain in the Central Bank of Costa Rica, throughout the
proposed project's implementation period, a Project Account
with an initial deposit equivalent to US$1 million in local
currency to cover counterpart expenditures (para. 3.16);
(ii)    establish in the Central Bank of Costa Rica a Special
Account, in U.S. dollars, tc cover eligible expenditures and
maintain this Special Account throughout the proposed
project's implementation period (para. 3.16);
(iii)    establish a Project Coordination Unit within its MIDFPLAN,
with membership and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank,
not later than December 31, 1986 and maintain this unit
throughout the proposed project's implementation period
(para. 3.1e);
(iv)    submit to the Bank necessary data and information on all
project components through annual progress reports beginning
March 31, 1988 (para. 3.30); and



- 17 -
(v)    submit to the Bank annually certified copies of the audited
project accounts of MOPT and ADI, as well as the audited
Project and Special Accounts in the Central Bank of Costa
Rica within six months of the close of each fiscal year
starting with the audit reports for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 1987 (para. 3.32).
(c) BNCR and the Borrower would:
Mi)    ensure that the onlending interest rate to beneficiaries
would be reviewed, and if necessary adjusted, in consulta-
tion with the Bank, every June and December to ensure that
the onlending interest rate to new beneficiaries would be at
least equal to the basic rate (para. 3.26).
4.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be:
(a) recruitment internationally by BNCR of an expert in cocoa-coconut
cultivation whose qualifications and experience would be acceptable
to the Bank (para. 3.07);
(b) the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and BNCR, acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11);
_c) the signing of a contractual agreement between the Government and
ADI, acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.12);
(d) establishment by the Borrower in the Central Bank of Costa Rica of
a Project Account with an initial depo-it of US$1 million in local
currency to cover counterpart expenditures (para. 3.16); and
(e) establishment by the Borrower of a Project Steering Committee, with
membership and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.19).
4.03      Agreement having been reached on the above, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$26 million to the Republic of Costa Rica for
17 years including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable 4nterest rate.
September 24, 1986



- 18 -
ANNME 1
Page 1 of 6
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Features of the Project
A. Introduction
1.        This annex deals with the detailed features of the project,
focusing only on the components that are not fully covered in the main text
of the SZR.  A brief description of the project area is presented focusing on
evaluation of its suitability for the types of crops to be grown and the
technical packages to be recommended.
B. The Project Area
Location
2.        The project area is located in the eastern part of Costa Rica, in
one of the three principal zones known as the Atlantic and Northern
Lowlands. 1/ The climate is wet tropical with well distributed annual
rainfall of 3,000-6,000 mm.  Average temperatures range between 23' and 27-C,
with high relative humidity of 872, and 1,600 sunshine hours per year. The
principal agricultural activities in the zone are production of banana,
cocoa, and to a smaller extent other tropical fruit crops; and livestock
raising for beef and milk.
Soils
3.        The prevailing soils are ultisols and inceptisols. Ultisols, which
are deep soils with medium to heavy topsoils, and inceptisols which are
lighter textured soils, are in general well-drained. Imperfectly and badly
drained lowlands would be excluded from the project.
Cocoa Cultivation
4.        The Atlantico region accounts for about 85% of the total area under
cocoa in Costa Rica. The agro-climatic conditions in the region are
generally suitable for cocoa cultivation except for the high relative
humidity, which makes the crop vulnerable to fungus diseases. Cocoa growing
1/  The other two zones are: (a) the Pacific Lowlands, which has a climate
that ranges from wet sub-tropical in the south to dry tropical in the
north, and with annual rainfall of 1,500-2,500 mm. The main sources of
agricultural production are extensive livestock grazing for meat, and of
rainfed and some irrigated production of basic grains; and (b) the
Central Highlands, which has a temperate climate and annual rainfall of
2,000-3,000 mm. The main sources of agricultural income are coffee,
sugarcane, milk, and vegetables. The zone was the first to be settled,
infrastructure is relatively well developed, and access to major markets
is fairly easy.



- 19 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
is a long established tradition in the project area, particularly in the
southern part, where the crop accounts for over 50Z of agricultural
production. The crop is traditionally produced under a low input- output
farming system in which yield is limited by excessive shade, poor nutrition
and presence of pests and diseases. This system has been adversely affected
by the virulent Moniliophthora roreri which causes the Frosty Pod Rot disease
observed in Costa Rica for the first time in 1978. Farmers are, however,
increasingly becoming aware that by reducing undergrowth in the cocoa fields,
the Monilia is disappearing and the cocoa trees are bearing healthy pods
again. This is a healthy beginning towards restoration of production loss
due to the disease. The Government is supporting this positive trend by
establishing demonstration plots in heavily Monilia-infested areas. The
project would build on the experience acquired by a few progressive farmers
by introducing to larger number of farmers improved cultural practices of
cocoa and coconut cultivation, and by encouraging rapid rate of adoption of
such improved techniques.
Coconut Cultivation
5.        Besides cocoa, the other major perennial crop grown in the project
area is coconut. Coconut growing remained stagnant in the project area until
the early 1970s, but cultivation was restored thereafter with area under
coconuts increasing from 940 ha in 1973 to 3,750 ha in 1984. Other recent
favorable developments have been the shift towards higher yielding varieties,
as well as increasing use of coconut palms as permanent shades in cocoa
farms.
Other Major Crops
6.        Bananas are also a major export crop grown in the project area:
some 9,000 ha in the central part of the Atlantico Region are planted to
bananas which produce about 37Z of the national production. Small areas are
also devoted to other commodities which have good export prospects, such as
Macadamia nuts, peach palm, ornamentals (yuca, silver queen, dracaena
warnekii, green sanderiana), and tropical fruits (citrus, mango, avocado,
soursop). The project would support the further development of these crops.
C. Major Project Components
7.        This section deals with cocoa-coconut development program and the
proposed road component.
Cocoa and Coconut Development
8.        Cocoa production would be developed primarily by controlling the
Frosty Pod Disease (Moniliasis) which has been the principal cause of
production decline in the recent past. Extensive investigations on disease
resistance have been undertaken at CATIE, which is leading the research on
Monilia in Latin America. It has established a germ plasm bank of some
450 clones which systematically have been tested on resistance to
Moniliophthora. Through research and selection of most-promising clones and
cross-breeding, CATIE has developed some 24 disease-tolerant hybrids.



- 20 -
ANNX I
Page 3 of 6
Parallel to the research on disease resistance, CATIE has studied the
biological life cycle of the fungus; this research has resulted in the
development of a number of control measures geared to break the fungal life
cycle. These recommended control measures, aimed at reducing the relative
humidity in the plantation and the level of infection, are tree pruning (four
times), shade control, weed control, in-field drainage, and early detection
and removal of diseased pods (at weekly intervals in the critical periods).
CATIE is continuing its research on disease resistance and field-testing of
tolerant hybrids; it is also embarking on the large-scale production of
certified hybrid seeds (some four million seeds in 1985).
9.   CATIE's research has been applied under field conditions during recent
years. By applying the improved cultural practices in highly infested
fields, CATIE has recorded yield increases of 11% in the first year and 85Z
in the third year (producing some 25,000 kg of fresh pods, equivalent to
about 2,500 kg dry beans per ha). Under less well controlled conditions
small farmers, applying the same control measures, have obtained yields up to
1,500 kg dry beans per ha. Despite such potential for improvement, the
farmers' current attitude and low level of training would not yet allow them
to take the full benefit of improved technological packages. There are,
however, indications that the farmers' attitude towards the application of
imp.oved cultural practices is changing as some farmers are already applying
improved technological packages.
10.       Under the project, extension efforts will be intensified, but even
then the average yield of the replanted and new fields at full production is
taken at only 0.8 tons dry beans/ha to reflect realistically the above
mentioned constraints. CATIE is training the extension agents and farmers,
and has established demonstration plots in the main cocoa-growing areas. The
BNCR technical staff, to be employed under the proje_t, would participate in
CATIE's five-week training program. The farmers would participate in courses
of one to two weeks, and would be invited to field days at the demonstration
plots. During the initial years of project implementation the BNCR technical
staff will visit the farms frequently (or as needed) in order to supervise
the recommended use of inputs, planting techniques, cultural practices and
the efficient shade management.
11.       The cocoa fields to be rehabilitated are planted with interclonal
hybrids or improved varieties, and the trees are young (less than 10 years).
The productivity of these fields can be increased by application of improved
cultural practices. The cocoa fields which would be replanted are now
occupied by old and inferior trees which do not have good production
potential. The trees would, therefore, be uprooted and new ones planted.
Seedlings, obtained from certified seeds, are available from nurseries
located nearby, which are managed by CATIE. Plant spacing in the areas to be
replanted or newly planted would be 3x3 m giving a density of about 1,100
trees per ha. Temporary shade (up to four years after planting) would be
provided by plantains, and permanent shade by coconut hybrids spaced 10x8 m
giving a density of 125 trees per ha. Maintenance would include fertiliza-
tion, pruning, weeding, shade control, and phytosanitary control. The rate
of development is described below.



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
12.       On the basis of surveys, five farm models have been selected to
assess the proposed program of rehabilitation, renovation, and new planting:
(a) the first model represents farms with relatively young cocoa trees,
which have a potential for productivity and production increases
through a program of rehabilitation; the farms would account for
32% of the expected beneficiaries and 44Z of the area to be
developed. Such farms average about '1 ha, of which 9 ha are under
cocoa; the rest of the holding is under plantains, pastures, scrub
vegetation, and forests. Under the proposed project, the cocoa
area would be rehabilitated, but there would be no change either in
the overall cropping pattern or in the technology of production of
the non-cocoa crops;
(b) the second model, also with an average holding size of 21 ha,
represents farms where there are old and unproductive cocoa trees
which would be replanted under the project; the farms would account
for about 13Z of the expected beneficiaries and 17X of the area.
As in the previous model, there are currently 9 ha under cocoa with
the rest of the area occupied by plantains, maize, pastures, scrub
vegetation, and forests;
(c) the third model represents farms where new cocoa fields would be
established; the farms would account for about 35% of the
beneficiaries and 31% of the area to be developed. The farm size
amounts to 21 ha occupied by plantains, maize, pastures, scrub
vegetation, and forests. Under the project, 6 ha of cocoa
inter-cultivated with coconut would be established on land which is
currently under scrub vegetation and maize;
(d) the fourth model represents farms which have old cocoa fields which
would be replanted; about 5% of the beneficiaries and 4% of the
area are represented by this model. Average holding size is
estimated at about 8 ha of which 5 ha are under cocoa and the rest
are under plantains, scrub vegetation, and forests. Under the
project, the old cocoa trees would be uprooted, and new ones
planted on the same area intercropped with coconut; and
(e) the fifth model, also with a holding size of 8 ha, represents farms
where there would be new plantings of cocoa inter-cultivated with
coconut; 15% of the expected beneficiaries and 4% of the area to be
developed are represented by this model. The farm is currently
under maize, pastures, scrub vegetation, and forests. Under the
project 2 ha of new cocoa would be established by reducing the area
under scrub vegetation and maize.



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
13.      The total area owned by the participating farmers amounts to about
19,150 ha of which about 7,000 ha (35%) is expected to be developed under the
project. The summary of the cropping pattern for all models is shown below,
and the cropping pattern for each model is shown in Table 1.
Item                                           Area
Present                         With Project
Main Crop:
Cocoa                       4,490                               7,000
Plantain                    1,210                               1,210
Maize                       1,570                                 740
Pasture                     5,320                               5,320
Scrub Vegetation            3,860                               2,180
Forests                     2,700                               2,700
Subtotal               19,150                              19,150
Inter-cultivated Crop:
Coconut                      -                                  4,000
Total                   19,150                             23,150
14.       The cumulative number of farmers represented by each model who are
projected to enter the project at different times, and the cumulative areas
which are proposed to be developed are shown below:
Year                        Number of Participating Farmers
Model 1       2        3       4        5       Total
1987                80        32       88       14      36         250
1988               206        83      227       37      93         646
1989               279       112      309       50     126         876
1990               332       133      367       60     150       1,042
Year                               Area to be Developed
Model 1       2        3       4      5         Total
( -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -{ha)-  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 
1987               720       290      530       70      70       1,680
1988             1,855       750    1,360      185     185      4,335
1989             2,510    1,010    1,855       250     250       5,875
1990             3,000    1,200    2,200       300     300       7,000
Establishment costs for each model are shown in Tables 2-6, and annual farm
labor requirements are shown in Table 7.



- 23-                        ANNEXI
Page 6 of 6
Roads
15.       The road component of the proposed project would consist of:
rehabilitation and construction of about 105 km of roads, including construc-
tion of some small bridges; maintenance of roads in the project area
including procurement of maintenance equipment and spare parts (about 15%),
and provision of one vehicle and miscellaneous equipment/materials required
for MOPT's staff in charge of the engineering and supervision of road works.
16.       The list of feeder roads proposed to be included in the project
(Table 8) was selected after careful review of the needs of the project and
the present condition of the feeder roads/tracks serving the project area.
The works would include: (a) rehabilitation of about 25 km of existing
gravel roads, which have deteriorated beyond the level amenable to normal
maintenance. Such roads would require raising and consolidating embankments,
minor modifications in horizontal alignment, additional culverts, improvement
of lateral drainage system and gravelling; and (b) construction of about
80 km of roads to all-weather standards, generally along existing earth-
tracks.
17.       The design standards are sbown in Table 9.  Engineering designs for
35% of the roads have been completed. Engineering designs of the remaining
65% will be completed by the end of 1987. The timetable for implementing the
road component is shown in Chart World Bank 30063.
18.       The project would also assist MOPT to improve its capacity to main-
tain the roads serving the project area. A suitable maintenance program was
estimated on the basis of the programmed annual expansion of the road network
and was used to establish related financial and equipment requirements. At
the present time, a master plan for maintenance/improvement of a national
road network is being prepared by MOPT and if that project goes ahead it
would complement efforts beirng introduced under the project. The project
would provide road maintenance equipment (Table 10). The equipment would be
owned and maintained by MOPT LO be used exclusively for maintenance of roads
within the project area. Duriag the project implementation period MOPT would
set up a suitable organization to ensure farmers' participation in road
maintenance in the form of free labor in certain maintenance activities such
as right-of-way clearing and drainage maintenance. The local authority
(Ejecutivo Municipal) would be responsible for the implementation of the
annual schedule of operations to be agreed upon between MOPT's regional staff
and farmers' representatives.
D. Project Cost
19.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about C 2,220 million
(US$43.5 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$11.1 million or
25%. Details of the cost estimate and schedule of expenditures are shown in
Tables 11 and 12, respectively. The estimated sched le of disbursement of
the proposed Bank Loan is shown in Table 13.



-24-                              ANNEX 1
Table 1
COSTA RlICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern Without and With Project a/
Iteu                            Without Project             With Project
-- (ha) -    ~~~
Model 1
Cocoa                                9.0                       9.0
Plantain                             1.0                       1.0
Pastures                             6.0                       6.0
Scrub Vegetation                     2.0                       2.0
Forest                               3.0                       3.0
Model 2
Cocoa                                9.0                      9.0
Coconut                               -                        9.0
Plantain                             2.0                       2.0
Maize                                1.0                       1.0
Pastures                             4.0                       4.0
Scrub Vegetation                     2.0                       2.0
Forest                               3.0                       3.0
Model 3
Cocoa                                 -                        6.0
Coconut                               -                       6.0
Plantain                             1.5                       1.5
Maize                                3.5                       1.5
Pastures                             6.0                      6.0
Scrub VegetaLion                     7.0                      3.0
Forest                               3.0                       3.0
Model 4
Cocoa                                5.0                      5.0
Coconut                               -                       5.0
Plantain                             1.0                       1.0
Scrub Vegetation                     !.0                       1.0
Forest                               1.0                       1.0
Model 5
Cocoa                                 -                       2.0
Coconut                              -                        2.0
Maize                                1.0                       0.4
Pastures                             4.0                      4.0
Scrub Vegetation                     2.0                      0.6
Forest                               1.0                       1.0
a/   Coconut is inter-cultivated with cocoa.  The effective area grown to
coconut palms would be 80Z of the area under cocoa.
Novembecr 15, 1i95.



- 25-                               ANNEX 1
Table2
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment Cost for Model 1
Cost Estimate
Item                          Year 1        Year 2       Year 3      Year 4
- -   -    -   -    -    -   -   -   -   -  (C)
Labor
Family                      58,600
Hired                       97,700
Seedlings                      9,000
Plant Support                   -
Fertilizers                   19,500
Agricultural Chemicals        30,100
Spray Equipment                 -
Harvesting Equipment            -
Other Farm Equipment            -
Sacks                           -
Transport                      3,700          -            -
Copra Dryer                     -
Drying Shade                -______
Total                    218,600          -            -
July, 1986.



-26 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 3
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment Cost for Model 2
Cost Estimate
Item                          Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4
- -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  (C)  -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  _
Labor
Family                      88,800       73,000       77,400       91,500
Hired                      294,000       80,200       67,800       84,600
Seedlings                    227,200         -            -            -
Plant Support                 21,100         -            -             -
Fertilizers                   67,700       40,100       86,200       90,900
Agricultural Chemicals        43,400       80,900        13,100       13,100
Spray Equipment               33,800         -            -           11,300
Harvesting Equipment            -            -            -            2,200
Other Farm Equipment                         -            -           12,400
Sacks                           -            -            -             800
Transport                     49,400        4,300        7,900        8,400
Copra Dryer                     -            -            -           14,400
Drying Shade                    -            -            -          81,000
Total                    825,400      278,500      252,400      410,600
July, 1986.



-27-                                ANNEX 1
Table 4
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment Cost for Model 3
Cost Estimate
Item                          Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4
 -    -    - - - - - - -(C)-- - - - -   --(-)
Labor
Family                      65,300        56,700       57,900        69,400
Hired                      175,700        45,500       38,900        48,100
Seedlings                    151,500          -            -             -
Plant Support                 14,100          -            -             -
Fertilizers                   43,800        26,700       57,500        60,600
Agricultural Chemicals        28,900        53,900        8,700         8,700
Spray Equipment               22,600          -            -            7,500
Harvesting Equipment            -             -             -           1,500
Other Farm Equipment                          -            -            8,200
Sacks                           _             _                           500
Transport                     32,900         2,800        5,200         5,600
Copra Dryer                     -             -            -            9,600
Drying Shade                    - _    _                               54,000
Total                    534,800       185,600      168,200       273,700
JLly, 1986.



-28 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 5
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment Cost for Model 4
Cost Estimate
Item                           Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4
~~~~~~(C)
Labor
Family                       83,900        68,400       66,200        79,400
Hired                       128,800        16,700        14,400       18,500
Seedlings                     126,200          -            -             -
Plant Support                  11,700          -             -            -
Fertilizers                    36,500        22,300       47,900        50,500
Agricultural Chemicals         24,100        45,000         7,300        7,300
Spray Equipment                18,800          -            -            6,300
Harvesting Equipment             -             -             -           1,200
Other Farm Equipment                           -            -            6,900
Sacks                            -             -            -              400
Transport                      27,400         2,400         4,400        4,700
Copra Dryer                      -             -            -            8,000
Drying Shade                     -             -             -          45,000
Total                     457,400       154,800      140,200       228,200
-uly, 1986.
July, 1986.



-29-                               ANNEX 1
Table 6
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment Cost for Model 5
Cost Estimate
Item                          Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4
 -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   (C)-    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
Labor
Family                      42,600       31,800       30,500        36,900
Hired                       37,700        2,200        1,800        2,300
Seedlings                     50,500         -            -
Plant Support                  4,700         -            -             -
Fertilizers                   14,600        8,900       19,200        20,200
Agricultural Chemicals         9,600       18,000        2,900         2,900
Spray Equipment                7,600         -            -            2,500
Harvesting Equipment            -            -             -             500
Other Farm Equipment                         -            -            2,700
Sacks                           -            -            -              200
Transport                     11,000          900        1,700         1,900
Copra Dryer                     -            -            -            3,200
Drying Shade                    -            -            -           18,000
Total                    178,300       61,800       56,100       91,300
-                             m,m
July, 1985.



-30-                               ANNME 1
Table 7'
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Labor Requirements a/
With Project
Without
Item              Project   Year 1    2       3       4      5      5        7       8+
--  -(Man-days)                        -
Model 1
Total              410       870    840    880    930    930    930       930     930
Hired               80       480    320    370    420    420    420       420     420
Model 2
Total              460    1,940    980    900  1,010  1,180  1,310   1,330   1,390
Hired              100    1,480    480    410    510    670    790        820     880
Model 3
Total              490    1,400    820    770    850    960  1,040   1,060   1,100
Hired               100      950    330    290    350    460    540       560     600
Model 4
Total               140      960    430    380    450    540    610       620     660
Hired                -       590     80     70      90    140    200      210     250
Model 5
Total              200       500    310    300    320    360    390       390     400
Hired                -       190     10      10     10     20     30       30      40
a/  Total supply of family labor is estimated at about 40 man-days per month.
July, 1986.



-31-                             ANNE[ I
Table S
COSTA RICA
ATIANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Project Roads
Item                                Length             Class
-(Ku|)-
Roads to be Rehabilitated
1. Ruta 36 - Tuba Creek                         3.0                VI
2. Ruta 36 - Carbon 2                           7.0                VI
3. Santa Rosa - El Trebol                       3.5                 V
4. Santa Rosa - Tomatal                         5.0                 V
5.  Iberia - Rio Perla                          3.6                VI
6. Zent - Palestina                             4.0                VI
Subtotal                               26.1
Roads to be Constructed
7.  Waghope                                     7.3                 V
8. Tierra Grande                               17.3                VI
9.  Margarita                                  25.0                 V
10. Florida                                    15.3                VI
11. Made                                       13.4                 V
Subtotal                               78.3
Total                                 104.4
July, 1986.



-32-                              ANNEX 1
Table 9
COSTA RICA
AILANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Minimum Design Standards for Project Roads
Item                               Class V             Class VI
Expected Average Daily Traffic              50                  50
Design Speed                                50 Kph              40 Kph
Minimun Horizontal Curve Radious            80 m                50 m
Maximum Gradient                            10 X                12%
Roadway                                      4.5 m               4.0 m a/
Cross Slop                                   4 %                 4 %
Surfacing                                   Selected gravel where essential
for vehicular passage (25 cm thick)
Right of Way                                20 m                20 m
Bridges                                     Locally available timber
(HS 15-44)
a/   Passing bays to be provided where needed.
July, 1986.



-33-                             AMNN=  1
Table 10
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Vehicles and Equipment
Item                               Quantity      Unit Price    Total Cost
('000 C)- - - - -
Road Component
Engineering Design
Pick-up                               1             500             500
Tachometer                            1             175             175
Level                                 1              125            125
Miscellaneous                         -               -             750
Construction Supervision
Pick-up                               2             500           1,000
Maintenance
Motor Grader (140 HP)                 1           4,500           4,500
Front End Loader (1.3m3)              1           3.250           3,250
Bulldozer (140 HP)                    1           6,500           6,500
Roller                                1           3,000           3,000
Dump Trucks                           6           1,750          10,500
Pick-up Trucks (1.5 ton)              1             500             500
Lubricating Unit                      1            -              1,050
Spare Parts                           -                           4,200
Land Titling
Vehicles                              3             420           1,260
Motorcycles                           4              85             340
Project Administration
Vehicles                              5             420           2,100
Total                                              -         39,750
July, 1986.



-34-                                         A
llu
project Cst Iatintm
Itm          F-                 1 FnmE
i_                     loawlE.     e        Total     Tal  Fe.    Total   r
- - - - -- (T'0O  C) - - - - - -U;$) ---                      - () ---
Cbmao ad Oxwut 1bw1eopit
Fatabislmit Qut             881,670   263,160  1,145,030   17,250   5,150   22,410       23
!hiutu Xa (but    560,540   100,700    661,240   10.970   .,970   12.940        15
Sibttl                     1,442,410   363,860  1.86,270   2,230   7,12    35,350         20
Ibid 4pmmnt
l=li_ L s   45,880    88,810    134,690      900   1,740    2,640        66
)hlztenmr                      3,090     3,160      6,250       60      60o      1        5D
lquipit                        1,590    30,250     31,850       30     590      62D       95
les4  & Suvlsn                  82D 3.770          1259        170      75      245       31
Subtad                        59,380   12,000    185,380    1,160   2,465    3,625       68
Land Tltlkt
Vddes & !torycia                 80      1,545      1,625        5      3D       35       86
-B;it & SIM                    2,360     2,640      5,0D        45      SD       95       47
SMnX7                         26,070      -        26,070      510       -      510        -
subtotal                      28,510     4,185     32,695      560      80      640        12
Te2ic3t  Aslitmaie                3,600    14,400      18,000       70     28D      350       2D
Project AirdsnItEtlIm            63,350    13,040      76,390    1,240     255    1,495       17
Total Be Cbut              1,597,250   521,485  2,118,735   31,2fiO  10,20D   4,s460       25
Fhyskal                       10,270    10,230     20,500     .130     20       400       50
Allow8m  for
Ekpected Price IncaBe        45,940    36,885     82,825      900     72D    1,620       44
S9btotal                      56,210    47,115    103,325    1,100     920    2,02D       45
(kind Ibtal Cbt            1,653,460   568,600  2,222,060   32,360  11,120   43,480       25
July, 1986.



A2nAiMD AWUWA MVUE3W PM!
Sdcdae of LEcridmt
Total                           1986                             1987                            1988                          1989
Item                 local    IbFew    Total        LocaI     Fb           od         1 Total  local  Vorm4  Total    local    bFte4An   Tbtal    loca    Fourli  Total
----------------------- (soWC)---                                                                              _          __-
Oa aid lUe*u Drwloqet
atab1iluhent Cost           881,870   263,160  1,145,030         -          -         -      96,00      22,450    118,530  189,330    47,990   237,320  174,510  48,180  222,680
Id remwie Ont               560,540   10D,700   661,240                     -        _            -          -          -        -          -         -        -        -       -
9btotal             1,442,410   363,860  1,806,270         -                    -      96,030     22,450    118,530  189,330    47,990   237,320  174,500  48,180  222,680
butnwctim/MuhSbilitalton    45,88D    88,810   134,690           -          -         -      13,350     29, 980    42,950   15,280    28,370    43,650   16,830  31,20   4,030
1aztenm                       3,090     3,160     6,250          -          -         -           -          -          -       620       330       950    1,330      720    2,050
Ouiumt                        1,590    30,260    31,850          -          -         -       1,590     30,2bC     31,850         -         -         -        -        -        -
DeW' G arqaw n                8,820     3,770    12,590          -          -        _        3,650      1,550      5,210    2,820      1,200     4,020    2,3SD    1,010    3,360
91ibtotat             59,380   126,0D0    185,380         -          -          -     19,010     61,000      80,010    18,720    29,90     48,62D   20,510  32,990   53,500
tad Titlzm
lbhfc1  S 1*Mycli                80     1,545      1,625        80      1,545      1,625          -          -          -        -          -         -        -        -        -
lqdjnt & qiplts               2,360     2,641     5,000        320        600       9W          460        460        920       520       520     1,040       530     530    1,060
RMY                          26,070   __         26,070    13.120           -    13,120      11,950          -     11,950    I.0            -     1,000        -        -        -
aibotal               2R,510     4,185    32,695    13,520        2,145    15,665     12,410        460      12,870    1,520       520      2,00       530     530    1,060
Thdmkal  Gintac                 3,600    14,410    18,00         -           -         -       1,20D      4,800      6,000    1,220D     4,80D     6,000    1,200   4,800    6,00D
Flojet AbndrtttLal             63,350    13.040    76,390      7,230      2,780    10,010       7,790      1.360      9,15D    7,930      1,40      9.30    8.80    1,5 900
mea lle COt          1,597,250   521,485 2,118,735    20,750      4,925    25,675      136,490    90,070    226,560  218,700    84,610   303,310  204,820  88,000  32,020
hntfi
Ryulcl                    10,270    10,210    2D,500          -          -         -        4,830       980      5,810    2,480      4,210     6,690    2,780   4,740    7,520
Allmai for
iqected Price   hcrinm    45,940    36.885    82,825       560         85        645       6,660     7,280      13,90      70 7,0640    15,300   11,590  14,270   25,80
9afotl               56,210    47,115    10' 325       560         '5        645      11,490     8,260      19,750   10,180    11,810    21,990   14,370  19,010   33,310
Qmd  btad lbt   1,653,460   568,600 2,222,C60    21,310          5,010    26,320     147,980    98,330    246,310  228,880    96,420   325,300  219,190 107,010  326,200
JAly, 1966.



AANL OD tA0 ICLIRAL EEVUhit2  PkIW
SdAle of   zd1ttztur
1990                               1                             1992                             1993
Its                          tocal     Fomhi      Total  e oal          FOM.I      TOt        Local      ie1        TOt        local  nbd            Total
_________________________ _- -('OCO-C) ---                                     -------------------------------
own ad Out bclat
htab1tahmnt Out                     198,j0O     59,950    257,990    122,730     45,260    167,990     66,770     24,780     91,550     34,420     14,550    4U,970
Kh1nte.wi Out                            -           -     _          72,480     13.950     86,470    199.870     35,A80    235,750    288,19D    _5083D    339,02D
9ittotal                      19D,050      59,950    257,990    195,210     59,250    254,460    266,640    60,660    327,300    322,610     65,380    3D7,990
amd  -py~
O4tutnat1t/cnlwb1.1tatio               -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -
I     _lztewics                     1,140      2,110      3,250          -            
dtot1                               1          2              -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -
9jbeuxa1                       1,140       2,110      3.250 
Wind Ttltz
VdbIclm & Ftorcyc1a                    -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -
lq.11nmt & &wll2                     53D         53D      1,060          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -
-WA                                    -                                                                                          
Sjbtotal                         530        530       1,060         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
lddmical bMlative t
Project AMnistratim                    8,060       1,500      9,580o     8,00       1,500      9,580      8,0B0      1,500      9,580      8,080      1,5W      9,580
lbtal awe Cwt                207,790      64,(90    271,880    203,290     60,750    264,0(O    274,720     62,160    336,880    330,690    66,880    397,570
1Iyu1acl                              180         300        480          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -
ALlJNa for
bectad Frice Tncre                 4.340       3.740    8_.80        4.53D        60       5,130      49         2,340      7.240      5.660        970      6,630
Sabtotal                       4,520       4,0S0     8,560      4,53D       6KA,       5,130      6,900      2,360     7,240      5,660        970      6,630
Orad Ibtal Out               212,310      68,130    ZO0,440    2D7,820     61,350    269,170    279,620     64,500    344,120    336,350    67,850    40',20D
Jly, 1986.



-37-                               ANNEXI
Table 13
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursenent of Bank Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year                          Half-Yearly         Cumulative
and Semester                           Disbursement        Disbursement
t-   - (US$ million) - - - -
1987
June 30, 1987                             0.7                 0.7
1988
December 31, 1987                         0.9                 1.6
June 30, 1988                             2.0                 3.6
1989
December 31, 1988                         2.0                 5.6
June 30, 1989                             2.0                 7.6
1.990
December 31, 1989                         2.3                 9.9
June 30, 1990                             2.3                12.2
1991
December 31, 1990                         2.3                14.5
June 30, 1991                             2.3                16.8
1992
December 31, 1991                         2.3                19.1
June 30, 1992                             2.3                21.4
1993
December 31, 1992                         1.6                23.0
June 30, 1993                             1.6                24.6
1994
December 31, 1993                         0.7                25.3
June 30, 1994                             0.7                26.0
July, 1986.



-38 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banco Nacional de Costa Rica
A. Introduction
1.        This annex deals with the BNCR, focusing on: institutional aspects
including legal status, organization, staffing, capital structure; lending
operations; quality of portfolio; and financial situation and prospects.
A summary of the entire banking system is presented first as background.
B. The Banking System
Structure
2.        Costa Rica's financial system is dominated by four nationalized
banks: BNCR; the Banco de Costa Rica; the Banco Anglo-Costarricense; and
Banco Credito Agricola de Cartago. These handle about 90% of the total
assets of the banking system, with private banks accounting for the remaining
10%. The nationalized banks account for about 982 of lending to the
agricultural sector. The activities of the nationalized as well as the
private banks are controlled by the Central Bank. There are also 33
financieras, which are non-bank financial institutions with total assets
amounting to about C 2 billion. The financieras are authorized to issue
certificates of deposit only for terms exceeding six months, and finance
primarily personal loans.
Interest Rates
3.        Most interest rates are tied to the -basic rate", which is the rate
for six-month deposits. Current lending rates range from 12% plus a
commission of 3% for subsidized small farmer loans to 28% for consumer
credit. The interest rate for externally funded projects is set by the
Central Bank on a case by case basis considering the cost of funds, its
foreign exchange risk fee of not less than 5%, and a spread for credit
intermediaries of not more than 6%. With a domestic inflation rate of about
13% in 1984 and an expected similar rate in 1985, most interest rates are
positive in real terms. Under the SAL, the Government has undertaken to
maintain the basic rate above expected rate of inflation and to reduce
lending to small farmers at subsidized rates. Detailed information on the
interest rate structure is shown in Table 1.



-:'R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~3 
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
C. BNCR
Legal Status and Objectives
4.        BNCR was established in 1940 as the International Bank of Costa
Rica. It has the legal entity of a state bank and is governed by the Central
Bank's 'Organic Law' on Costa Rica's banking system (Law No. 1644). The
Organic Law specifies the objectives of the bank only in general terms such
as the provision of various types of banking services and the promotion of
the country's economic and social development.  Other than that, BNCR does
not have a policy statement setting forth its specific objectives.
Organization
5.        BNCR's Board of Directors consists of seven members appointed by
the Council of Government for a period of eight years. The General Manager
is appointed by the Board for a six year term. Although the Organic Law
establishes the complete autonomy of the Board in matters of administrative
policy, BNCR is at times restricted by interventions of the Contraloria
General de la Republica in matters of general administration. Reinforcement
of the technical independence and the autonomy of the Board were recommended
by a banking commission in 1984.
Staffing and Training
6.        BNCR has some 3,280 employees, about 60% of whom work in branches
outside the metropolitan San Jose area. A program of in-house and external
training is now in place which should improve the general quality of the
staff.
Capital Structure
7.        BNCR's capital structure is weak. Its debt-equity ratio, based on
paid share capital, amounts to 55 to 1 (BNCR's records show subscribed but
unpaid capital as though it has been paid; the debt-equity ratio based on
this approach is 16:1). In 1980, its debt equity ratio had reached an all
time high of 61 to 1. In 1981, the Central Bank converted part of the debt
owed to it (C 970 million) into equity and subscribed additional share
capital in the amount of C 1.6 billion, with BNCR receiving capitalization
certificates to be cashed over 20 years commencing on September 30, 1984.
Payments were to be made in quarterly intervals, but so far three payments
are overdue. The weak equity base of BNCR (and of the public banks) is one
of the issues addressed by the above mentioned commission on the reform of
the banking sector (para. 5), which has recommended to replace the 20 year
capitalization certificates by 10-year certificates. This goes part 'iay in
strengthening the equity of this and the other public banks, but mucb more
needs to be done. However, careful study of the entire banking system is
necessary before steps can be taken to reform and strengthen BNCR (and the
other banks) such as by strengthening its equity base.



-40 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
8.        Deposits constitute BNCR's important funding source (Table 3).  The
bulk of the deposits are sight or short-term deposits made by the general
public; only about 20 - 25Z of total deposits relate to government agencies
and enterprises. Deposits grew from C 6.5 billion in 1980 to their present
level of C 22.3 billion.
Loan Portfolio
9.        BNCR's portfolio is characterized by a large number of smail loans,
with agriculture accounting for about half of the number and/or volume of
lending. The bulk of the loans is short-term (up to one year), which
accounts for 40% of the total volume of lending compared to 3% for long-term
loans (over 5 years). The share of short-term loans has tended to increase
over the past few years reflecting the decreasing availability of resources
to finance medium- and long-term loans.
Quality of ODerall Portfolio
10.       As of December 31, 1984, the delinquent portfolio (defined as
principal of loans having interest in arrears) amounted to 62% of total. The
agricultural portfolio, however, had slightly lower delinquent portfolio
(Table 5). Normally, BNCR monitors the arrear situation only by determining
the delinquent portfolio. However, in mid-1984, the BNCR computed, on a
sample basis, the total principal in arrears as a percentage of the total
outstanding portfolio, which is a better reflection of the arrears
situation. / On that basis, the arrears as of July 1984 amounted to 19.7%
of portfolio (representing an amount of C 2.7 billion). Principal in arrears
for more than one year accounted for 8% of portfolio, while available
collateral in the form of real estate mortgages amounted to about 10% of
portfolio thus exceeding the percentage of long-term arrears.
11.       In spite of substantial increases in annual allocations to
provisions for doubtful loans 2/, provisions dropped from 3.2% in 1980 to
2.4% in 1984 when compared to total portfolio at year-end. This is due to
write-offs totalling C 990 million 3/ during the last four years. While
BNCR still has to develop a provision policy based on an evaluation of the
1/   BNCR does not compute the collection rate.
2/   In the case of BNCR's commercial department, annual allocations to
provisions increased from C 23.3 million in 1981 to C 585 million
in 1984.
3/   BNCR's commercial department.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
risk of major subloans or lending activities 4/, the strengthening of
provisions and clearing of its portfolio through write-offs are steps in the
right direction.
12.       Attempts to improve the determination and monitoring of arrears
have been slowed down by lack of computerization at branch level. Efforts to
computerize BNCR's data management are still at an early stage and
concentrate on the introduction of electronic data processing to manage
current accounts, savings accounts and deposits. Because of the complexity
of the task, the computerization of the portfolio at the head office is
expected to take two years and considerably longer at the branches. The IDB
is providing technical assistance to improve portfolio management of
agricultural loans.
Financial Situation
13.       During the past five years, BNCR generated small annual profits
which increased from C 21 million in 1980 to C 88 million in 1984 (Table 6).
14.       During the latest fiscal year (1984), BNCR operated at an overall
margin 5/ of 4.4% related to its average total asset. This margin has been
determined by deducting from BNCR's total financial income expressed as
percentage of average total asset (10.2%) its total financial expenses
expressed in the same way (5.8%); the low financial expenditures are due to
the low cost 3t deposits, as sight deposits are free from interest.  If the
spreads are computed on BNCR's portfolIo only, and if other financial income
as well as financial expenses other than interest on borrowings are excluded,
the interest spread for 1984 amounted to 3.9%. The ratio was computed as the
difference between the interest income on loans as a percentage of average
portfolio (18.6x) and interest expenses on borrowings as a percentage of
average borrowings (14.7%). The administrative expenses amounted to 3.4% of
the portfolio, yielding a modest 0.5% return on lending activities.
15.       BNCR's liquidity (expressed as liquid assets as percentage of total
deposits or as percentage of total deposits less time deposits) declined from
1982 levels, but present ratios are still above those of 1980 (Table 2).
BNCR's liquidity position underlies short-term variations influenced by
changing minimum reserve requirements, liquidity in the economy as reflected
in the level of deposits, and investment opportunities for its short-term
resources. In late 1984, BNCR had to resort to short term credit from the
Central Bank for sevcral months and obtained a rediscounting line of up to
C 1 billion at a high interest rate of 26%.
4/   Provisions are determined on a global basis, the main criterion being
BNCR's profit situation for the year. In general, BNCR attempts to show
slightly increasing annual profits with provisions constituting the
balancing factor.
5/   Including service income and expenditures, and other non-interest
related income.



_42                          ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
Financial Prospects
16.       BNCR is financially weak, and the prospects for improvement in the
medium-term are not encouraging. Projections of BNCR's financial statements
for 1986-89 (Tables 7-Q) show modest increases in resources and lending. 6/
Profit related to total asset is projected to increase from about 0.2% in
1984 to about 1.9X in 1989. There would be a modest build up of retained
earnings during the projection period, hut this would not be sufficient to
improve significantly BNCR's capital structure. An increase in the equity of
the bank would prevent further deterioration of the capital structure.
17.       Estimated BNCR project receipts and disbursements are shown in
Table 10.
6/   The projections are based on the following assumptions: deposits,
borrowings from the Central Bank, and lending would grow at 18% per
annum; the average cost of resources would be similar to present levels;
BNCR's onlending rates for new loans are based on the Central Rank's
interest rate structure in force at appraisal; overall administrative
expendititres would grow at 17.5% annually; and write-offs would average
about 3Z of portfolio, and annual allocatiun to provisions would be
correspondingly increased to about 3! of gross portfolio.



- 43-                          ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULURJAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Interest Rate Structure
I.  Central Bank LendLng Rates                                    Rate a/
(Percentage)
1.  Rural Credit Department of BNCR to                  BR less 6 with
finance small farmers (less than a                   a minimam of 4
year)
2.  Short-term loans to private                        To be determined
commercial banks (up to 90 days)                   in each case
3.  Short-term loans to public                         To be determined
banks (up to 90 days)                              in each case
4.  Loans to the CNP to stabilize prices               2 plus a commis-
of basic foodstuffs                                sion of 2 per
year
5.  Loans to commercial banks with                     To be determined
foreign funds                                      in each case
II. Rates on the Liabilities of Banks and Financieras
Local Currency
1. Demand Deposits                                           0
2.  Savings Deposits                                         8
3. Large Deposits (over C 100,000) with
maturities from 30 to 90 days                        BR plus 3.5
4.  Deposits of 3 - 6 months                             BR less 2
5.  Deposits of 6 - 12 months                            BR
6.  Deposits of 12 - 24 months                           BR plus 2
7.  Deposits of over 24 months                           BR plus 3
a/ BR - basic rate.



-44 -                         ANNEX 2
Table1
Page 2 of 2
Rate
(Percentage)
Foreign Currency
1. Current Accounts                                       0
2.  Savings Deposits                                      6
3. Time Deposits                                Determined by the BCCR
III. Lending Rates and Fees
of Banks and Financieras
Subsidized Interest Rates
1. Small Scale Agricultural Producers                    12
2.  Small Scale Manufactures and Artisans                BR less 3
Other Activities
1. Marketing of Comodities (coffee,
sugar, rice), mining, agroindustry,
construction and housing                             BR plus 3.5
2.  Livestock Breeding                                   BR
3.  Other Agricultural Activities                        BR plus 1.5
4.  Rest of Economic Activities                          BR plus 8
Commitment Fee on Undisbursed
Funds of Approved Credits                                2
November 15, 1985.



-45 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 2
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:  Financial Ratios
Item                           1980     1981      1982    1983      1984
Liquid Azsets/Deposits               27.9      32.2     38.9    36.2      35.0
Liquid Assets/(Total Deposits -
Time Deposits)                     47.8      53.4     64.3    64.9      61.7
Net Profits/Equity                    11.9      1.4      2.5    3.1:       4.0
Net Profits/Total Assets              0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2
Operating Expenditures/Total
Expenditures                       31.4      30.0     42.0    43.8      43.7
Personnel Cost/Operating
Expenditures                       67.5      68.f     44.8    35.6      47.1
November 15, 1985.



-46 -                              ANN= 2
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
DSTA RICA
ATANCOD AGRICULTRAL DEVEWPHWI  PROJECr
Banco Naeioal de Costa Rica: Balance Sheet  a/
Item                           1980        1981       1982        1983       1984
----- -              (C  ioui)o               )-
Assets
Liquid Assets                   1,814.2    2,864.4    5,527.5    7,193.1    7,819.5
Local Currency                 807.3    1,217.8    2,102.0    3,267.3    3,210.5
Foreign Currency             1,006.9    1,646.6    3,425.5    3,925.8    4,609.0
Loan Portfolio (Net)            5,186.0    5,797.6    7,834.5   11,852.8   13,538.9
Short-term                   1,5 9.8    1,958.1    3,432.8    5,711.3    5,441.0
Medium-term                  2,884.7    2,977.2    3,755.1    5,767.6    7,324.4
Long-term                      356.8       316.7      329.8       374.0      398.4
Court Claims                   563.9       698.1      576.5      623.3       708.4
(Provisions)                  (169.2)    (153.0)    (262.1)    (623.4)    (333.3)
National Banks                               0.5        2.4
Securities                      2,610.3    3,410.1    4,156.8    3,675.9    4,863.1
Local Currency               2,018.2    2,101.4    2,841.6    2,906.1    4,217.9
Foreign Currenmcy              592.8    1,309.4    1,315.9        770.5      645.9
(Provision)                     (0.7)       (0.7)      (0.7)      (0.7)       (0.7)
(Government Bonds)          (2,017.6)   (2,100.9)  (2,841.0)  (2,901.3)  (4,213.1)
Fixed and Other Assets          1,534.2    4,554.2    7,143.0    8,090.2    9,003.9
Total Assets                11,144.7   16,626.3   24,661.8   30,812.0   35,225.4
Liabilities
Deposits                        6,505.5    8,793.9   14,227.7   19,847.9   22,322.8
Local Cuwrency               5,486.      7,3T51.    10,954.7   16,015.1  -17,44.7
Foreign Currency             1,019.5    1,442.7    3,273.0    3,832.8    4,882.1
(CDs)                       (2,712.8)   (3,434.4)  (5,627.8)  (8,758.1)  (9,651.9)
Other Liabilities                 664.7    2,985.8    5,308.7    6,170.8    7,549.0
Local Currency                 627.6       965.5    4,575.9    5,474.1    6,857.8
Foreign Currency                37.1    2,020.3       732.8       696.7      691.2
Credits from BCCR               2,900.2      968.8    1,149.7    1,645.4    2,548.3
Credits from Foreign Banks        895.8    2,087.1    2,173.8    1,120.0        604.0



-47 -                               S 2
Page 2 of 2
Item                              1980        1981       1982       1983        1984
- -(C mllion)- - - - - - - -
Equity                               178.5    1,790.7    1,801.9    2,027.9    2,201.8 bl
Total Liabilities and Equity      11,144.7   16,626.3   24,661.8   30,812.0   35,225.3
sJ A mjor devalation of the Colon in 1981 had a significant Ipact on foreign borrowings,
liquid asets and deposits in foreign exchange, and other assets and other liabilities.
The foreigm exchng risk for 'credits from foreign banks mas with BCR until 1983, "hen
the Central Bank asmed ex post this rlsk with respect to the 1981 devaluation. This
explais the increase of this balance sheet item in 1981 and the subsequent decrease in
1983. The "fized and other assets" and "other liabilIties" increased sharply in 1981
becaue both NM's liquid assets and deposits 1" foreign exchange increased when expressed
in lwcal currency. The adjusting entries are included in "fized and other assets' and
"other liabilities". To finance the foreign exchange loss of the public banks arising from
the 1981 devaluation, a special cordssion of 0.75-1.5Z is being levied on certain types of
new loan,  the perentag  depending on their term. Prior to 1981, the Central Bank bad
ued DICR as a channel to partially fund Central G    Dverneut expenditures. For this purpose
it had received a loan from BCC of C 1.6 billion from which it purchased interest bearing
Govern-m3 t bonds. In 1981 this tranaction was replaced by capitalization certificates
issued by B11 for the saw ammt, concoiuttent with a share capital increase.
b/ Includes subscribed but not paid-sp capital.
Noveuder 15, 1985.



-48 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 4
COSTA RICA
ATLANTIC') AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica:
Disbursements by Sector and Parts of the Country in 1984 a/
Parts of the Country
Item                     Pacific     Pacific    Pacific
North  North       Central    South   Atlantic  Central  Total
- - - -(X- - - - - - - - - - - ( -- --ZZ - -ZZZZ-ZZ
Basic Grains
Rice                   -       51.1         48.9       36.5     23.6    38.5  37.6
Other Basic Grains    0.9       7.8          4.8        8.4      0.5      -      3.9
Sugar Cane              2.2       4.9          6.7        5.3      4.6     3.6     3.8
Coffee                  0.1       3.1           -         1.0      3.9    13.1     4.8
Other Crops b/          5.0       6.5          2.1       18.0     36.3     8.3    10.8
Livestock              79.2      23.4         24.5       22.8     17.3     4.1    24.7
Industry               12.6       3.2        13.0       8.0      13.8   32.4      14.4
Total             100.0     100.0       100.0     100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0
(C million)          560      1,520        630       300       510    1,180    4,700
(Regional Share in Z) 12         32         14         6        11       25     100
a/   Excluding disbursements by BNCR's head office.
b/   Including cocoa and coconut.
November 15, 1985.



-49 -                                   ANNEX 2
Table 5
COSTA RICA
ITLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica: Delinquent Portfolio a/
(Principal Affected by Arrears of Interest)
Item                                    1980     1981    1982    1983       1984
-                 (Cumillion)         
Total Delinquent and Performing
Portfolio (Period in Months)
less than 1                                 786     713   1,376   1,900       2,244
1 -  3                                    682      541     937   1,797      2,078
3 -  6                                     406     442     337   1,096      1,890
6 - 12                                     369     414     190      672       913
12 - 24                                     478     352      198     370       396
24 - 36                                     148     315      170     105         70
Over 36                                     205     427      382     370        207
Total Delinquent Portfolio                3,074   3,204   3,590   6,310       7,798
Total Performing Portfolio                1,540   1,963   3,599   4,995       4,773
Total Portfolio                           4,614   5,167   7,189  11,305    12,571
Delinquent Portfolio as X of Total
Portfolio                                   67      62       50      56         62
Long Overdue Delinquent Portfolio
Portfolio Delinquent by more than
1 year as Z of Total Portfolio              18      21      10        8         5
Agricultural Delinquent Portfolio b/
Delinquent Agricultural Portfolio
as Z of Total Agricultural Portfolio        61      52         42     44        53
a/ The information given in this table relates to BNCR's Commercial Department
which at the end of 1984 accounted for 91X of total portfolio and 90% of the
delinquent portfolio.
b/ Includes the livestock subsector, where the delinquent ratios are higher.
November 15, 1985.



-50-                                      AMI= 2
DSUA RICA
ATLAC CD  ARIELVLAL Dr  POJECI
Banco Naeiosal de Costa Rica: Profit and Loss Statemnt
Item                                 1980        1981         1982        1983        1984
- - - - - - - - - - C million)- - - - - - - - - - - -
Ebpenditures 
Financial                                 602.1        790.5     1,050.0     1,485.6     1,811.1
Interest paid over deposits              322.4       456.3        630.2     1,180.7     1,393.3
Interest paid over other liabilities     258.5        314.8       395.8       282.9       393.7
Other ff ancial expenditures              21.2         19.4        24.0        22.0        24.1
Operating                                 279.7        342.5       769.5     1,256.9     1,477.4
Personnel costs                          188.8        234.8       344.5       447.1       696.0
Service expenses                          24.7         30.5        46.4        83.9       116.3
Miscellaneous  a/                         66.2         77.2       378.6       725.9       665.1
(Provisions)                             (30.1)      (30.2)      (301.9)     (606.0)     (405.8)
Other Expenditures                            9.6          6.8        12.2       126.5        95.8
Total Expenditures                     891.4      1,139.8     1,831.7     2,869.0     3,384.3
Revenues
Interest Earnings                           832.2      1,070.9     1,648.8     2,440.3     3,087.8
Over loans                               651.2        818.4     1,074.5     1,758.2     2,338.3
Over Investments                         156.2        209.3       362.5       444.4       405.1
Other                                     24.8         43.2       211.8       237.7       344.4
Service Income                               63.2         77.8       184.8       236.4       264.9
Other Income  b/                             17.3         17.2        42.8       260.5       119.9
Total Revenues                         912.7      1,165.9     1,876.4     2,937.2     3,472.6
Profits                                      21.3         26.1        44.7        6 .2        88.3
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a/  Includes supplies, depreciations, reserves and current transfers.
b/   Includes extraordinary revenues.
November i5, 1985.



- 51 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 7
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica: Projection of Balance Sheet a/
Item                      1986         1987        1988         1989
-              -  - (C million) - - - - - - - - - -
Assets
Cash                         11,176       12,951      15,011       17,667
Securities                    6,260        6,444       6,708        7,280
Loans-gross                  19,240       24,259      30,061       35,980
Loss Reserve                 (543)        (693)       (793)      (1,093)
Loans-Net                    18,697       23,566      29,268       34,887
Other Receivables             4,565        4,565       4,565        4,565
Fixed Assets                    842          991       1,152        1,325
Total Assets               41,540       48,517      56,704       65,724
Liabilities
Current Liabilities           3,680        3,680       3,680        3,680
Long-term Borrowings          4,548        5,891       7,405        8,534
Deposits                     31,082       36,675      43,278       51,067
Total Liabilities          39,310       46,246      54,363       63,281
Capital b/
Paid-up Capital               1,696        1,696       1,696        1,696
Reserve + Ret. Earnings         534          575         645          747
Total Capital               2,230        2,271       2,341        2,443
Liabilities + Capital          41,540       48,517      56,704       65,724
a/   In current prices.
b/   Assuming subscribed capital would be paid.
November 15, 1985.



-52 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 8
COSTA RICA
AILANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica: Projection of Income Statement a/
Item                        1986       1987        1988         1989
- - - - - -  (C million) - - - - - - -
Revenues b/
Securities                        535        540         592          664
Loans-outstanding               3,829       5,088      6,484        7,965
Loans-undisbursed                  13          17         20           24
Other                             173        207         249          299
Total Revenue                   4,550       5,852      7,345        8,952
Expenses C/
Current Liabilities                15          15         15           15
Borrow Long-term                  409         565        756          922
Commission Fee Borrowing           15          68         91           67
Deposits                        1,723       2,033      2,399        2,830
Administrative                  1,445       1,698      1,996        2,345
Other                             137         164        196          235
Depreciation                     42         50          59           69
Alloc. Loss. Res.               510        750         950        1,200
Total Expenses                  4,296       5,343      6,462        7,683
Profit                              254         510        883        1,269
a/   In current prices.
b/   Lending rates on new loans are asstmed to be the same as at present, with
concentration of lending at about 23%.
c/   Average cost of resources is assumed to be similar to present levels.
November 15, 1985.



-53 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 9
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica: Projection of Flow of Funds a/
Item                             1986        1987        1988        1989
-             - (C million) - - - - -    -
Previous Period
Cash                                 9,273      11,176      12,951      15,011
Securities                           7,106       6,260       6,444       6,708
Beginning Balance                   16,379      17,435      19,395      21,719
Additions in Period
Cash Income from Operations             573        841       1,080       1,371
Net Income                             20         41          71          102
Loss Reserve                          510        750         950       1,200
Depreciation                           42         50          59          69
Repayment Loans                      12,048     15,475      18,346      22,289
New Long-term Borrowers               1,003      1,410       1,581       1,196
Increase Deposits                    4,741       5,595      6,601        7,790
Sub-total                         18,365      23,321     27,608       32,646
Substrations in Period
Loan Disbursements                   17,083     21,094      24,997      29,109
Increases Fixed Assets                  182        200         220         242
Mature Long-term Borrower                43         67          67          67
Snb-total                         17,308      21,361     25,284       29,418
End of Period
Ending Balance                      17,435      19,395      21,719      24,947
Cash                                11,176      12,951      15,011      17,667
Securities                           6,260       6,444       6,708       7,280
a/   In current prices.
November 15, 1985.



00J8A RICA
ATnAO) /AWL1anTL DIV E              WL P
bnco  Nianal de Costa Rica:  Peceipt*  m-d Dabwsemits hIker Project
YOMD
Item                                      1       2      3       4      5      6      7      8       9     10     11     12      13    14      15     16     17
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --(C Wllioor)- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bormcwing frun GoveInzut                   139    271    229    261    180      92     50       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -
Ptlncpgl CoUections fromSub-brroemr          -      3      8      10     22     46     61     82      92     93     93     89      87     85     84     72     55
Intart Inon  on 9bloo     a/                14     58    113    168    212    224    223    209    192    173    152    132    112        92     72     52     33
Total                          153   332    350    439    414     362    3344    21    2        266     245     221    199    177    156    124    88
Loan to FarmrS                             139    271    229    261    180      92     50       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -             -
Direct EVmweue4 b/
General Adminltration                     5      7      8       9      9      9      9       6      6      6      6      6       6      6      6      6      6                       1
Todica AssistanCe                        10     IS      20     20     10     12      13      9      9      9      9      9       9      9      9      9      9
AUavanca for Ie  ,sc/                     -      3      8      12     17     20     21      20     18     16     14      12     10      8      7      5      4
Sub-Total                       15 25         36    VI       36    71       3    TS 3     3      31    29      27     25     23      22     20     19
Debt Service to Gownuent d/
Principl &eaymit                          -      -      -       -     94     94     94     94      94     94     94     94     94      94     94     94     94
Interet Pay,nt                           10     38     73    108    139    158    155    145    132    119    106       92     79      65     53     40     26
Su94otal                        10  -   7N           1   m   m    9  w   m   m    X    1   17  TN  IV   1   -
Total                          164    334    338    410    449    385    342    274    259    244    229    213    198    182    169    154    139
CA      BAN       e/                         (11)    (2)    12      29     35   (23)    (8)    17       25     22      16      8      1     (5)   (13)   (30)   (51)
a/ P-mA on auwal lendiIs iterest rate to the bnaficiarii  of 20Z.
/ A spre   of 6S to MNaMld warI r thise aexup .
/ Projected at 2S of outstaidin portfollo.
#fPep yp    t period of 17 yem  1iarst          4 yeae of gaa.
Present value d_awted at 12S - about C 45 xuijon.
.AIy, 1966.                                                                                                                                                                            o



~ 55 -                    ANNEX 3
Page i of 5
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits and Justification
A. Impact on Production
Introduction
1.         This annex evaluates: the expected production under the project of
the principal export crops (cocoa and coconut) which would be promoted under
the project; marketing, markets, and prices of these crops; impact of the
project on the beneficiaries' income; and the economic rate of return on
project investments. The cropping pattern without and with project is
discussed in Annex 1.
Yield and Production
2.         Based on results of research on cocoa and coconut which has been
conducted within the project area over many years, and on actual experience
of farmers who have been applying improved cultural practices of cocoa and
coconut cultivation, the yields at full development are projected as follows:
cocoa beans from rehabilitated farms 0.5 tons/ha, and from renovated and/or
new plantings 0.8 tons/ha. Without the project, yield from areas to be
rehabilitated is expected to remain unchanged at 0.15 tons/ha, and from
fields that would be renovated at about 0.05 tons/ha. The hybrid coconut
palms, are projected to yield an equivalent of 2.4 tons/ha of copra at full
development.1/ Based on the above yields and on the area under the
different crops, production of cocoa beans is projected to increase from 520
tons to about 4,700 tons and that of copra would amount to about 9,600 tons.
Since some of the area to be grown to cocoa-coconut would replace maize,
production of the latter would decline from 3,660 tons to about 1,560 tons.
There would be some increase in the production of plantains from trees which
would be used as shade during the initial stage cf establishment of cocoa and
coconut. The progressive development of output is shown in Table 1.
1/  Under optimal field practices, it would not be unreasonable to expect
yields of 1.5 tons/ha of dry cocoa beans, and 3.5-4 tons/ha of copra.
Progressive farmers who are applying improved cultuiral practices of
cocoa cultivation are geting about 1.2 tons/ha.



-56 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
B. Marketing
3.         The organization of the marketing system for cocoa and
coconut/copra is conducive to the efficient working of the price system.
Marketing of both cocoa and copra is in the hands of the private sector with
no intervention by the Government either in the physical handling of the
products or in setting product prices. The domestic marketing of cocoa is
usually done by several intermediaries who purchase cocoa beans from the
producers and sell them to private exporters, and/or factories which export
the product either in the form of dry beans or processed products. There is
sufficient competition among the market intermediaries, and there is smooth
and timely flow of market information to the beneficiaries. A few factories
have closed in the past few years due to shortage of raw materials, but there
are enough factories left which continue to process cocoa products; some are
importing dry cocoa beans for processing and re-exporting the final
products. There is also a major cooperative located within the project area
which processes and exports cocoa, and this cooperative is expected to play
an important role in the marketing of project output. The processing and
marketing of copra is also in the hands of the private sector. There are
copra producers' associations which compete with individual traders, and they
are also expected to participate in marketing the project output.
C. Markets
4.         Cocoa is one of the traditional exports of Costa Rica, and there
are established markets in the United States, Europe and Latin America.
Around 90% of the total production has traditionally been destined for the
export market either in the form of dry beans or processed products.
However, in the recent past exports have tended to decline consistently due
to a decline in production, dropping from a high of nearly 9,000 tons of bean
equivalent in the late 1970s to a present level of about 2,000 tons.
Costa Rica now accounts for only 0.2% of the internationally traded cocoa.
The cocoa to be produced under the project would only help in restoring
production and exports to levels attained in previous years, with the exports
expected to be destined for the traditional markets.
5.         Concerning copra, Costa Rica is a very small producer in the
international market accounting for less than one-tenth of one percent of
world production and an even lower proportion of world exports; most of the
copra is exported to various European markets. The project outputs would
help in diversifying the agricultural export base by helping the country to
capture an increasing share of the international market for copra, currently
estimated at about 450,000 tons per year. There are also possibilities for
exporting coconut in the form of coconut oil rather than copra, particularly
to the U.S. market; a private investment group plans to do this on its own.



- 57 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
D. Output Prices
6.         The output prices of cocoa and copra, which are used for evalu-
ating the project, are derived from projected international prices of the
commodities less estimated marketing costs; the derived prices are shown in
Tables 2 and 3. There are close correlations between the historical levels
of domestic and international prices, particularly for cocoa, reflecting the
close inter-relationships between prices in Costa Rica and the world market.
World prices of both cocoa and copra are projected to decline through the
mid-1990s and improve slightly thereafter. Costa Rica is a price taker in
the international market for both cocoa and copra, and the expected outputs
of these commodities under the project would not influense world prices.
E. Impact on Beneficiaries' Income
7.         The main quantifiable benefits of the project would be the
expected increase in the production of the above-mentioned export commodi-
ties. The direct beneficiaries are expected to be about 1,040 farmers, about
30% of whom have annual incomes of less than C 155,000, a ceiling established
by the Government below which farmers are eligible for special financial
assistance by the Government; the rest of the beneficiaries have family
incomes of C 160,000-170,000. The average family income for all the benefi-
ciaries amounts to about C 152,000, or an equivalent per capita income of
about C 27,000 compared to the average national per capita income of about
C 65,500. With the project, the family incomes of the beneficiaries are
projected to increase by an average of about 160%. The internal financial
rate of return on farm investments, computed in constant 1985 prices, is
estimated to average about 40%. Other financial indicators of the impact of
the credit program are also favorable: net present worth, discounted at 12%,
vould average around C 956,500; and the benefit cost ratio and net benefit
increases (also discounted at 12%) are estimated at 2.2 and 70%, respec-
tively. Details are in Tables 4-8.
F. Economic Rate of Return
8.        The economic rate of return (ERR) on all project investment is
computed at 18%. This is based on the following assumptions and parameters:
(a)   the benefit streams are based mainly on the projected outputs of
mainly cocoa and copra, but also include production of plantains
used as shade trees during the early years of establishment of the
cocoa and coconut; the projected decrease in the production of
maize from areas replaced by cocoa and coconut has also been
accounted for. The streams of benefits are shown in Table 9;



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
(b)   all cost and benefit streams have been computed in constant 1986
prices, and exclude transfer payments;
(c)   the cost of establishing the cocoa-coconut fields for the
different farm models are shown in Annex 1, Tables 2-6, and the
annual production and maintenance costs are shown in Tables 10
to 15 of this annex. All costs are expressed in constant 1986
prices; and
(d)   the opportunity cost of labor has been computed at 88% of the
market wage rate. Wage rates are influenced by organized labor,
and are not determined entirely by the free interplay of demand
and supply. The downward adjustment of the 'market wage rate- for
purposes of computing the ERR is based on the average rate of
unemployment in the project area during 1980-84, estimated at
about 12%.
The economic cost and benefit streams used in computing the ERR are shown in
Table 16.
9.         Both cocoa and coconut are not new to project area farmers, and
most of the expected beneficiaries have been growing cocoa for many years.
In view of the familiarity of farmers with the production and marketing of
these crops, the projected yields are reasonable and take into account the
possibility that farmers may be slow in adopting the entire technological
packages to be recommended under the project. There are a few progressive
farmers who are already in the process of applying similar technical packages
and the positive results of their experiences can be expected to be emulated
gradually by their more conservative neighbors. Nevertheless, even if the
projected benefits were reduced by 20X or if there is a lag of two years in
the attainment of the project benefits, the ERR would be 13Z. Other results
of sensitivity tests are shown below:
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
Base    Up    Up    Up   Down  Down    Lag        Lag       Lag
Benefit   10%   20%   50%   10%   20%   1 year  2 years  3 years
-                          (percent)- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Base Cost       18      20    22    29    16    13        15      13        11
Up to lO%        16     18    20    26    13    11        13      11        10
Up to 20%        14     16    18    24    12      9       12      10        9
Down lO%        20      23    25    32    18    15        17      14        12
Down 20%        23      26    29    36    21    18        19      16        14
Down 50%        38      42    45    55    35    31        30      24       21
Lag 1 year       -       -     -      -     -     -       18      15        13
Lag 2 years      -       -     -     -      -     -       -       18        15
Lag 3 years      -       -     -      -     -     -        -       -        18



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
Present Values of Net Stream at a Discount Rate of 12X
Base Benefit  U  lOZ   U  20%    Up 50Z
- - - - - - - (C million)- - - - - - - -
Base Cost                425        605         785      1,325
Up 10%                   290        470         650      1,190
Up 20%                   150        330         510      1,050
Down IOZ                 560        740         920      1,460
Down 20Z                 700        880       1,060      1,600
Down 50Z               1,110       1,290      1,470      2,010
Switching Values at 12%
Stream                   Appraisal Value    Switching Value   Percent Change
- - - - - - (C million)- - -
Benefit                      1,795                1,370            -24
cost                         1,370                1,795            +31
G. Impact on Foreign Exchange Earnings
10.        The incremental outputs of cocoa and copra are expected to be
exported. The cocoa is assumed to be exported in the form of dry beans and
the coconut in the form of copra. To the extent that the cocoa may be
processed and exported in the forr of various cocoa products, the foreign
exchange earning capacity of the project would be enhanced. Similarly,
should plans by a private investment group to process and export coconut oil
materialize, the foreign exchange earning potential of the coconut to be
produced would be enhanced also.
11.        The projected incremental outputs of cocoa beans and copra are
estimated to be worth about US$8.3 million equivalent per year at full
development, or about US$290 million over the project life.



-60 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 1
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Output from Area to be Developed Under Project
Crop
Year                      Cocoa       Copra          Maize         Plantains
- - -(tons)- - - - - - -    ('000 bunches)
Without Project             520            -         3,660              845
With Project
1987                    540           -          3,490              845
1988                    640           -          2,700            1,540
1989                    920           -          2,230            2,390
1990                  1,470         290          1,560            2,390
1991                  2,260       1,320          1,560            2,110
1992                  3,245       3,170          1,560            1,380
1993                 4,080        5,340          1,560            1,000
1994                 4,500        7,330          1,560              845
1995                 4,690        8,740          1,560              845
1996                 4,690        9,340          1,560              845
1997                 4,690        9,580          1,560              845
July, 1986.



-61 --                         ANNEX 3
Table 2
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farugate Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
Prices
Cocoa
Year           (dry Beans;       Copra         Maize             Plantains
- - - - - - - (C/ton)- - - - - - - -           (C/1000 bunch)
1986             70,100         13,000         5,400             40,000
1987             68,300         12,900         5,400             40,000
1988             66,400         12,400         5,300             40,000
1989             64,600         11,900         5,200             40,000
1990             64,800         11.600         5,200             40,000
1991             66,800         11,500         5,200             40,000
1992             69,000         11,400         5,200             40,000
1993             74,300         11,100         5,200             40,000
July, 1986.



-62 -                         ANNEX 3
Tabie 3
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of Farogate Prices in 1986 for Cocoa and Copra
Item                              Cocoa                 Copra
- - - --(C/ton)- - - - -
CIF Prices                            85,180                 20,590
Less:
Freight                               5,940                 6,070
Insurance                               660                   130
Equals:
Price at Port (Limon)                78,580                14,390
Less:
Narketing loss                        1,570
Milling expenses                         50                    90
Port handling                           180                   150
Transport (Port to Farmgate)           540                    540
Other marketing expenses a/           6,140                   610
Equals:
Farmgate price                      70,100                 13,000
a/ Including storage cost, and profit margin for intermediaries.
July, 1986.



-63-                                                   A.   3
.una AnmI_   ad On  FJw Ptq1lti  for INi   I
WIdi Nojeat
____                          ftajem       I        2        3        4        5         6        7        8        9        10
____ -----------------(C) ---------------------------
ing
Fm  p      !actjn              15M,00D  20D,30D  253,7W0  307,500  346,000  348,70D  349.,OW   358,7W0  367,900  391,9(D  391,900
CXf4azm lm                      29,7W0   20,Ia   _        _   _ _
Padd   Vaba                         -         _       , _         _      _        _         _        _
ToA                     IF 7,0W  220,4W0  253,700 3D7,5W0  348,000  348,700  369,000  356,70   367,900  391,900  391,900
amw
Inh                                 -  160.0O0         -       -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -
Inm> tid Mhkg Capitdl               -    7,OOD         -       -
q  mraz cat                      1,000    1,00D   37,0OD  37,000   3B,00   38,000   38,0OD   36,000   38,000   3S,0OD    38,00D
Total                     1.00   168L  ,    37,000  37,000   38,000   38,000   38,000   38,000   38,000   38,000   38,000
TOW                            180,700   52,400  216,70  270.5    310,0   310,70D  311,O0  320,70   329,90D  353.900  353,90
_|1reoffelal                        -   13,30D   36,000  89,80   129,000  129,30   130,300  140,00D  149,200  173,200  173,20D
Lm RE .pt a/                       -   167,000        -       -         -        -         -        -        -         -
1~k Sv1g  '                        -        -   30,O00  30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000   30,0         3000-                  -
Tota                          18D,70D  219,400  186,700 240,5D0   20,00D   20O.700  21,00  29D0,700  299900  353.900  353,90D
:atvnmtsl                          -   47,00      6,000  59,80    99,3M    10,00   100,30D  110,000  119,200  173,200  173,200
= = dh Pxet (Caeotmd)
11      12       13        14       15        16       17       18        19       20
-____------------------ (C) ---------------------------
Fma P      nctm                152,M0   391,900  391,90D 391.900  391,900  3Q1,9D0  391,90  391,90   391,900  391,900  391,900
aEf-Fm   Kam                   29,700         -        -       -         _        _         _        _         _        _
ihidghuma                           -        -         -       -         -        -        -         -        -         -   28,100
Total                   161,700  391,900  391,900 391,900  391,900  391.900  391,900  391,900  391,900  391,900  42D,000
canq
Infembmt                            -        -                 -         -
nam=tal Xbddrg  qal-
qmrstng cAst                    1,000   38,00D   38,000  38,000   38.00D   38,000    3.,000   38,00    38,000   38,000   38,mo
Ttal                      13,OD0    38,000   38,o00   38,000   38,00    38.000   38,W00   38.OO0   38,0o0    38,00    3B.O
NEr   rI   WM  FJNME
Total                          180,700  353,900  353.90D 353.90D  353.900  353390D  353,900  3,900  353,900    3.900  382,000
Tn-eta-  173,200  j73.20D 173,200  173,200  173,200  173,200  173,200  173,20   173,200  2D1,30D
Lmnbeceptsls                        -         -        _       _         _        _         _        _        _         _        _
ebt Serdv /                         -         -        -       -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -
NEr OEM MM FDWCDG
ota                            180.700  353,90D  353,90D 353,900   353,900  353,900  353,90   3Sa900  353,900  353,900  382,000
L hzMtAl                            -   173,200  173,200 173,200   173,20   173.20   173,200  173,20D  173.200  173,20   2D1,300
Efu            icdtoz  (befae finur4g):  M0757  WW(at 1ZO)033,400    Rat =)mL95 NBI(atlI)63
I/ Thds 1,fidbm 1nUit.    d A         ad imzkg cap1 aid qmate s.
b'  m l r te E            ts    _    t be 7Z.
ii, L98L



- 64 -
AN= 3
aUsu  RA
XIANU AGROU1RAL rinLew            K r=
1nv    t A.lysas and Co  F71  PrIcoin for Moel 2
W'Lth Pwject
Without
Itim                             Project     1         2        3         4         5       6         7        8         9        10
(C___________--------C) )--------------------------
Fam Pucictli                     137,900  107,200  360,50Q   335,500  384,800  512,300  800,400  872,600  923,600  952,700  952,700
OEE-Fm Incom                      25,700    8,500    2,000    3,100        300      300       300      300       300      300       300
bsidu-l Vabue                                             -        -         -        -         -        -                            -
Total                     163,600  115,700  362,500  338,600  385,100  512,60   80,70D  872,900  923,900   953,0   953,000
hmsemut                               -  736,600  205,500  175,.00   319,100          -         -        -         -        -         -
Incrumial Ibrudg Capial               -   -2,30D      -6Q0     1,000   50,700    3,700    1,400    2,80                     -
4ezartisg CoAt                    25,300   37,900   29,100   26,200   30,900  283,000  299.000  305,000  318,000  318,000  318,Q00
Total                      25,300  77220   234,000  202,2(   40D,70D  286,700  300,400   307,80    318,000  318,000   318,000
N r BM       EFCI FD M
Ibtal                            138,300 -656,5W    128,500  136,400  -15,60D  225,90D  50,300  565,100  605,900  635,000  635,0W
IacLmtal                              - -794,800   -9,8W0   -1900 -153,90D   87,6m0  362,000  426,800  467,600  496,0D0  496,70D
mi     R     at                       -  746,900  208.700  176,900  375,400           -         -        -         -        -         -
ebt Ser                                         -   59,000   73,000   92,0W0  2D1,OD  201,0M   201,00D0   1,000  21,00D  2D1,0D0
m fl WFMu FDW4
Total                            138,300   90,40D  278,200  240,300  267,800   24,900  299,3m   364,1W0  404,900  434,000  434,0oo
Inczenitad                            -  -47,90D  139,90   102,0OD  129,500  113,400  161,00D  225,800   266,600   295,7(0  295,700
With Project (Contim,ed)
11      12        13       14        15       16        17       18        19       20
-__ - __ -- -- -- - -  ----------- (C) -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
Pam Prd ctio                     137,900  952,70D  952,700  952,70D  952,700  952,700  952,700  952,70D  952,700  952,70D  952,700
0Ef-ParI                          25,700      30     0   3C00                         0       3        3                  300       300
RE-id Vaii                            -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -          2,7%,OC
Total                     163,600  953,00   953,000  953,0(0  953,000  953,000  953,000  953,00o   953,00D   953,000 3.709,800
Incre.tal1*it     Cair1-                        -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -
ITceotal W*dnMCgdtl                                       - 
Opeting ost                       25,300  318,0Q0   318,000  318,0C0   318,000  318,000  318,O0D  318,O0D  318,00D   318,0WD   318.O
Total                      25,300  318,000  318,000  318,0dO   318,000  318,000  318,000  318,000  318,000  318,00   318,000
NEr BM= BE FThlNCWf
Total.                                    635,0GD  635,000  b35,OOD  635,000  635,000  635,0W0  635,000   635,000  635,0WD 3,391,800
Tnor.m_it                                 496,700  496,70D  496,7a0  496700  496,700  496,700  496,70   496,700  496,700 3,253,500
FDLWCB
Debt Service b/                        -  201,00D  201,000  M1,00  201,000  M01,000             -        -         -        -         -
MEr IBWT AF FDWUM
Total.                           138,300  434,0WD   434,000  434,OOD  434,000  434,000  635,0OD  fi5,0O   635,000  635,00D  . 391,800
Icemntal                              -  295,700  295.700  295,700   295,700  295,700  496,700  496,70D  497 700  496,70D 3,k..50D
Performn  indicator (before financing):  IRR-23Z NWI(at 12%' Cl ,48b,100 BCRPi 12%)-2.09 MBI(atl2Z).l=2
a/Md             lhi nvesent. ad  irxrmtal wrkiAng capital and opeattco.
b/ Mme wl mwe of Interest is asmued to be 7%, ad iterest is capalized durig eFe grame periC
Jily 198.



-65 -                                                          AN= 3
MMF RICA
ATLARUM     AaULJURAL  EESWF PM=
ir"tmt  uklysaX a8d 0mh Flow Pojection  for Iodel 3
With Project
Ites                             Project     1         2        3         4        5         6       7         8         9        10
(---------------------- (C) ---------------------------
Fam Ptodktlu,                    175,300  121,60D  291.40D  274,0M   306,200  390,600   582,40n  630,600  664,700  6E4,400   684,400
(Xff-ba   1                       19.600    10,200    2,700    4,10      1,500    1,500    1,500    1,50       1.500    1,500      1,500
midal, Vale                            -                  -        -                            -        -        -         - _
Totad                      194,900   131,800  294,100  278,100  307,700  392,100   583,900  632,100  666,200  685,900   685,900
nmtbmt                                -   469,500  128,900  110,300  2D4,300          -         -        -        -         -         -
7nczintsl Ibikdig Capdial              -   -2.400      -600    1,000   32,300    2,600      1,000    L,900        -         -         _
q    Uet1ng cost                  28,800   40,600   32,m    29,600   33,700  193,50D   205,80D  210,500  219,80   219,80D   219,80
TotaL                      28,80D  507.700  160,600  140,900  270,30D  196,100   206.800  212.400  219,80    219,800   219,80D
NEr BMW  B E E ?DMCl
Toal                             166,100 -375,900   133,500  137,200   37,400   195,000  377,100  419,70D  446.400  446,400   446,400
IncriitAl                              -  -542,000  -32,600  -28,900 -128,70D   29,900   211,000  253,600  280,3M0  300,00D   300,000
FUWOEOC
Lawn sbcdm  a/                         -   478,90D  131,800  112,100  241,500         -         -        -        -         -         -
inIt Sernie @/                         -        -   39,000   47,000   59,000  120,000    O,000  1U,W000  120,000  12,OD    120,0DD
NEr EMM AFIE FDN:
TMtal                            166,100  103,000  226,300  202,300  219,900   76,OOD  257,100  299,70D  326,400  326,40D   326,40D
Tcreria                                -   63.100   60,200   36,200)  53,50   90,1tOD   91.000  133,600  160,3M0  160,30D    160,3
With Project (Crtimied)
11      12        13       14        15       16        17       18       19         20
FarmPmcmtja                      175,300  684,40D  684,400  684,400  684,400  684,400  684.400  684,400  684,400  684,400   684,40D
tff-Farm Im                       19.600    1,500    1,500    1,5(J      1,500    1.500     1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500       1.5(J)
P1d aialValue                         -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -  1, 835,60D
TOl                       194,90D  685,900  685,900  685,900  685,900  685900  685,900  685.90D  685.900  685,900 2,521,500
asnw
Investment-   -                                                             -         -        -         -             -         -
Tcrmnt WoddgC a       tal             -         -         _ -                -        - _       _        _        _         _
cperatim cost                     28,800   219.800  219,800  219,800  219,800  219,800   219.800  219,80W  219,800  219,800   219,80D
Total                      28,800   219,800  219,800  219.80   219,800   219.800   219,800  219,80   219.80   219,80    219,80D
Nr B BE       R 1Ee FDWaM
Total                            166,100  446,400  446,400  446,400  446,400  446,400  446,400  446,400  446,400  446,40D  2,301,70D
_mcrtal                               -   300,000  300,o    300,000  300,000  3.W00   300,00D  300,0o0  300.00)  300,000 2,135,600
FSNE
Low                                    -  t- -  -         -        -         -        -                           -         -         -
Dlbt Se,,iAM  b/                      -   120,000  120,000  1M.0O   120,000  120,000            -        -        -         -         -
HU ENE3 AFm FDW3N
Total                            166,100   326,400  326,400  326,400  32M,400  326,400  446,400  446,400  46,400  446,400 2,301,700
Incitalzjd                            -   160,300  160,300   160,300  160,300  160,300  280,300  280,000  280.000  280,0O0  2,135,600
Perfoxinne inicor (befo:e finralncg):  M-21Z NlU(at 12Z)- C761,800 BDR(at 12Z)-1.43 NBI(atl2)-55;Z
a/ lids inclwix  I=estaint, and iniremital waddl  capital and operating cast.
b/ The real re of intereat   is aed to be 77, and interets icpitalizd airing the  mace period.
myB 196



t13
Timn' t Anlysis ad Cbh Vlm PM.otica far 1Ibal 4
mm Pzojsc
Ita                              Ploewt      1         2        3         4        5        6         7         S        9        10
nau
Faxr Pumbatim                     42,000   24,500  164.500  151,100   179,100  250,40   410,70   431,200  45,40    45,40  45,400
Off-Fu Int                        61,900   23,60D   D.2D0    32,300   25,100   18,000   16,50    16,50    16.500   16,5          16,50
1as        al                         -         -        -         -         _        _         _        _         _        _         _
Total                     10,90D   46,100  191.700  183,400   20,20D  268,40  427,m00  447,700  474,900  474,900  474,900
intesomm                              -  373,500   86,400   74,00D  148,800           -        -         -        -         -        -
Iemai Idg C2pD4al                     -      -400        -       100   20.40      1,60       800    1,60          -         -        -
Opatirg coat                         500    3,720     1.400    1,700    1,50    103.4    111,500  115,500  123,20D  123,21D  123,0D0
TotOl                         500  376,300   87.8D0   75,300  170,70D  106,000   112,30D  117.10D  123.20   123,200  123,M0D
Er MM= -Eea FDRIW
Ttl                              103A,40  -328,70    103,90    108,10    33,500  163.40   314,900  330,60   351,700  351,700  351,70
Tncxtal                               - -431,60        500    4,700   69,90    60.0,0  211.50   227,20   2^630D  351,700  351,700
1M  RemiFta of                        -  375,800   87.300   74,800   170.200          -        -         -        -         -        -
Debt Servio bf                        -         -   29,000   34,000   44,0O0   88,000D  98,00    88,00D   88,00o   89,0o         88,000
Er EEET AFnI  FWIN
-btj                             103.400   47.600   162.700  148,90   159,700   75.40   226,90D   262,600  263.70D  263,700  263,70D
LXm    al                             -  -55,80      5B,8ao   45,500    56,30D   28,01D   123.500  13,20)  160,300  160,300  160,300
WIth Pvojle  (Cootzd)
11       1Z        13       14        15       16        17       18        19        2D
-                 ----------------- (C) -------------------------
inm
Para Pramb                        42,00i  458.400  458,400  458,400  458,40D  458,4D   458,400  4,4W0  45S,400  458,400   458,4C0
Off-Fam lTme                      61,900   16,540   16,500   16.500   16,500   16.500   16.5C0    16,500   16,500   16.500    16.50D
1ea .lYahm                            -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -  1.524,000
motel                     103,900  474,900  474.9D0  474,90D   474,900  474.90D  474.900  474,90D  474.900  474.900  1,998.900
avnq
,mmm                                  -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         _          _
q atg coat                           50  1M200  123.270   13.200   Z23,2    120   123,700   123,700  123,Z1           12,        123,200
TOW                           50   1230D  123.200  123,200   120D  123,70    120D 0Z23.Z0   123,20D  123.200   123,00U
Er IIN BERM FDIWDC
Total                            103,4C0  351,700  351.700  351,70D   351.700  351,70D  351,700  351,7W   351,700  351,700  1,875,700
lncmntal                              -  351.700  351.700  351,700  351,70D  351,70D  351,700  351,70D  351.7W0  351.700  1.772,300
TAM Bdp                                         -         -        -        -         -        -    _         _        _     _ 
Debt Ser5dm  b/                       -   88,000   88,00    88.00D   88,o   88,O00D            -         -        -         -         -
NU  Wff AFM FDG
Totl                                  -  266.70D  263,700  263,700  263,700  263,70D  31S,00  388,27D  388,700  388,270  1,912,200
inczmu                               -  160.300 160,300  160,300  160,300  160,300  24,800  394,80   34.80  234,800  1,808,800
Pm=fa        lui=   Cbfo  fl__1@q: DR-M   Wa8t  =- C1.158,W                 etD IllO  1261.75   E(stlZ)-36
a/ Mds irbdi invinam, ad hum1                 dId  captal    q   ti
b/ 7he ita rte of totmt 1m mmd to ha 7Z, ad h1ai           t is tD be aptalad   ut  th           pdL
. 199L



-67 -                                                         AU    3
m  _
kWmutAWs CUmb                   ff PWJU  o  ie 
v1h Pnj
it=                             Proect       1       2         3        4        5         6        7         8         9        10
_______________---------t(C) ---------------------------
DFLO
Fm PfnActna                       57,000   41,3M   98,600   92,4W0  102,60  130,D2D0  193,9W0  210,10D  21,500   22840    218t400
au-FM* Ina                        51,300   32,4W   3(,4O    37,Z1D    33,500   3,500   25,100   2,500   23,400    23,400    23,/,0o
h.i&.al Vaue                          -         -       -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -         -
Tote]                     108,300   73,700 1,00   1s,600   16,10   15.70   219,000  23,60D  244,900   251,800   251,800
_ tvagoor.                            -   135,700  3D,    25,6        54,           -        -         -        -          -         -
laCzMA1 Wdlng CGdral                  -   -1,100        a        0    6,600      -1OD       MD       30D         -         -         -
qwmabv cost                       2.5O   6,900   2,700    2,700    2,900   35,60    35,10    35,900   37,50          37.50      37,500
Total                       2,5W   141,50   32,700   3,30D   63,900   35,m5   35,300   36,2W    37.5,    37,500    37.50D
Total                        105,800  -7,800  1O,300  101,30D   72,20   123,20D  183,700   198,4W   2D7,4W    214,300   214,300
lncramgl                          - -173,600  -5,500   -4,5   -33.60    17n4         77,900   92,600  101,600   108,500   108.500
JM   Ri a at                         -   139.000  3D,20D   25,800   61.400         -         -        -         -         -         -
Debt sezv   b7                       -         -  11,000   13,000   16,OOD   32.,O0   32,000   32,000   32,000    37,00O    32,00D
1M BWl Ah= FDWB 
Totl                             105,800   71.210 119,500   114,100   117.60D   91,20D  151,70D  166.400  175.400   182,300   182,300
-a tal                                -        -   13,700    8.30    11,30D   14.60D   45.900   60DUCD    69,600    76,500    76,500
With Projet (C     a imim)
11      12       13        14       15        16       17        18        19        2)
Fm Prmoibtio                      57,000  228.40  228,40D  228.400  228,40   228,400  ZS.400  28.40D  28.400   228,40D   228,400
(If-Fm  Tuci. 51.300   23,400  23.400   23400                           .4      23,40    23.400   23,400   23,4C0    23,400    z3,4o0
1gkbaa Va                             -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -         -         -   606,000
Tmtal                     108.300  251.80D  251.800  251.800  251.800  251,800  251.E80   251,8W   251.800   251,800   8s7.800
Inv    t                              -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -         _         _         _
T_,i tal   c    Ctia                  -        -        -        -                                                           
C     pa   cost                   2,500   37.5ao  37,500   37,500   37,500   37,500   37,500   37,500   37,50D    37,50D    37,50
Total                       2,500   37,500  37,500   37,5s    37.500   37,5Q0    37,500   37,500   37.500    37,SA        37,50D
Er 1 EW     BMW0 FDf4CDG
Total                            105.800  214,300 214,300  21430D  214,300  214.30D  214.30   214,300  214,300   Z14,300   82D3,
Iinal                                 -   108,500 108,500  108,500   108,500  108,50   108,50D  108,500D  C8,500   108,500   714,500
L    R     s                         -         -       -        -         - _   _   _   _    _ _
D   ServIe b/                        -   32,000D  32,000   32,OOD   32,OD   32,                       - -       -         -         -
MM RW= AFIU FDW
otalb                            105,800     ,300 m   ,300  182,30D   12,m30   18,30D    2,3M   214,30   214,300   214,30D   820,30D
Incral                                -   76,50   76,500   76,500   76,500   76,500   76,500  108,500   108,500   L10,500   714,500
P      _foa     latictog  (bEam fi   ):   1b-23  Nant U1Z)- 016,300  II(a 1U1)..8  NUi(atl21)-362
a/  it luJdm kaimmt, ad If            1 i_e  kfrkvgd   c al a1 d achi     t.
b/ 7he mel rEe aEf lteuest in   _d to be 7Z, ad IiAimt is qdtuia1z   Argu dog    pedad
Juy  L986.



-68-                                                         AM= 3
RM~~~~~~~~~~~E-
aSrA FMC
Bmf It Strom WLwum Md With FCO1ect
ira.                ~~~Yaw Ia/ U.mr2 Yawr3  Yaw, 4T.r5  'm6   Yaw7  Ymr a  Yewr9 Yew lo  yawrlIye.r.1-40
--------------- ('00OOC)------------                                         ---
PRoict-   vIUa. project             50,460  50,460  50,460504 50,460  5       0,4W0 50,460 590,460  50,460  50,460  5  0.4W   50.460 5,6
ProAIctim With Project
Farm eatwlrg projca y-1 - 80     16.020  2D,300  24,60   28.640  27,900  27,920  28,70D  29,430  31,35D  31,350  31,35D  31,350
y-2 - 126         -  25,240  31,970  38,740  45,110  43,940  43,970  45,200  46,350  49,380  49,380  49,380
y-3 - 73          -       -  14,62D  18,520  22,450  26,13)  25,45D  25,480  25,180  26.860  28,610  28,610
y4- 53          -       -       -  10,610  13,450  16._70  18,970  18,480  18,5900  19.010  19,500  20,770
Frmw not eaceraig poject          3B.300  19,150   8,060       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
)odal 2
1ro~zct uItbwa project              18.340  18,340  18,340  18,340  18,340  18.340  18,340  18,340  18,340  18.340  18,340  18.340
Pro&uetim uLth pLoject
Farm entering project y-L - 32     3,43D  11.540  10,740  12.310  16,390  25.610  27.920  29,550  3D,490  30,490  30,490  30,490
y-2 - 51          -   5,470  18,30D  17.110  19,62D  26,130  40.820  44,500  47,100  48,590  48,590  48,590
y-3 - 29          -       -   4,930  10,450   9,730  11,160  14,800  23,210  25,30D  26,780  27,630  27,630
y-.4 - 21         -       -       -   2,250   7,570   7.040   8,08:)  10,760  16,810  18.32D  19,390  20,010
Farm not entering project         13.930   6,890   2,900       -       -        --                      -        -       -       -
IbIel 3
Pro&icU.m witbaut project           64,330  64,330  64,330  64,330  64,330  64,330  643.-D  64,330  64,330  64.330  64,330  64,330
Pr&Wi  mmd project
FaM= enterizm project y-l - 88    10,700  25,640  24,110  26,940  34,370  51.250  55,490  58,490  60,230  60.230  60,230  60,230
y2- 139         -  16,900  40,500  38,09   42,560  54,290  80.950  87,650  92,390  95,130  95,130  95,IM0
r-3 - 82                  - 9,970  23.890  22,470  25.110  32,030  47,760  51,710  54.500  56,1.20  56,120
y-4 - 58                          -   7,050  16,900  15,890  17,760  22,650  33,180  36,570  38,550  38,550
Farm  wt enterirg project          48,910  2.4,50  10,1L70      -       -        -       -               -       -        -       -
Nadel 4
FroKiacn:c  witlme project         2,520   2,520   2.52D   2,52D   2,520   2.520   2.520   2,520   2.52D   2.520   2,520   2,520
Pracdm with project
Fam  e.terIgi project y-3 - 14     360   2,300   2,110   2,510   3,510   5.750   6,310   6,710   6Y930   6,930   6,930   6.93D
y-2 - 23        -      560   3.780   3,470   4,120   5,760   9,450  10,370  115020  11,380  11,380  11,340
3   13          -       -      32D   2.140   1,960   2,330   3,250   5,340   5,860   6,230   6,430   6,430
r4 - 10         -       -       -      240   1,640   1.510   1,790   2,500   4,110   4,510   4,700   4,950
FM  rat sterg pnject             1,930     970     420       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Model 5
PftIan idmat prject                8,550   8,550   8,550   8,50   8,550   8,534   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550
PrO&ton vith project
Fam enterig project y-l - 36     1,490   3,550   3,330   3,690   4,690   6,980   7,570   7,970   8,220   8,220   8,220   8,220
y2- 57          -   2,350   5,620   5,270   5.850   7,420  11,050  11,970  12,62D  13,020  13,020  13,020
y3 - 33         -       -   41,360   3,250   3,050   3,380   4,300  6,400   6,930   7,310   7,540   7,540
y-4 - 24        -       -       -      990   2,570   2,220   2,460   3,120   4,650   5,040   5,320   5,480
Fans rot elterciW project        6,50D   3,250   1,370       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -
Total for AUl Models
Pro&k  idthiut project           144,210 144,210 14,210  44,210 4.,210 144.21  144,210 144,210 144,210 14.4210 144210 144,210
Fro.id _u ith project            141,550 16,660 219,260 256,200  3,3700 366.13D 441,190 497,560 560,550 565,850 568,60D 570,800
Tnwaomr    Pral  ctimi            (2,660) 24,45D  75,05 0 111.990 161,490 221,920 296,960 353,350 396,340 421,640 424,390 426,50
a/ Ye 1 In tde cm r exrn to 1967.
-. r      f Fi to yw.
Juy, 1966.



COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 1
Without                                      With Project
Item                          ProJect    Yer 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year i   Year 6   Year 7  Year 8  Year 9+
Labor
Family                       72,600    26,800  112,200  112,200  112,200  112,200  112,200  112,200  112,200  112,200
Hired                           450       900    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000
Fertilizers                         -         -   20,500   20,500   20,500   20,500   20,500   20,500   20,500   20,500
Pesticides                                    -    9,200    9,200    9,200    9,200    9,200    9,2(0    9,200    9,200
Transport                           -         -    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,900    1,800    1,800
Total              73,050    27,700  149,700  149,700  149,700  149,700  149,700  149,700  149,700  149,700
July, 1986.
Io !



COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 2
Without                                      With ProJect
Item                         Project    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8   Year 9+
- -               - - - - - - -C - - - - - - - - - - C              = - - - - - - - - - - -
Labor
Family                      77,900    12,000   36,300   30,600   20,300  111,800  111,800  111,800  111,800  111,800
Hired                       22,700    35,400   26,600   23,700   28,300  149,500  178,000  184,000  197,300  197,300
Fertilizers                         -         -        -        -         -   93,400   82,200   82,200   82,200   82,200
Pesticides                        700       700      700       700      700   13,800   13,800   13,800   13,800   13,800
Harvesting Equipment                -         -        -         -        -    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200
Spray Equipment                     -         -        -        -         -   11,300   11,300   11,300   11,300   11,300
Sacks                               -         -        -        -         -    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200
Transport                          30        30       30        30       30    8,700    7,500    7,500    7,500    7,500
Seeds                             250       250      250      250       250      250      250       250      250      250
Animal Health                     600       600      600       600      600      600      600       600      600      600      "
t.
Anlmal Feed (Supplement)          900       900      900       900      900      900      900       900      900      900       1
Total             103,080    49,880   65,380   56,780   51,080  394,650  410,750  416,750  430,050  430,050
July, 1986.



COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 3
Without                                      With Project
Item                          Project    Year 1  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9+
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (C) - Z - - - Z - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Labor
Family                       86,000    33,300   51,800   48,800   40,800  110,200  110,200  110,200  110,200  110,200
Hired                        23,000    34,800   28,500   25,800   30,500  102,300  121,500  125,300  134,300  134,300
Seeds (Maize)                     900       400       400      400      400      400       400      400      400       400
Fertilizers                         -         -         -        -        -   62,300   54,800   54,800   54,800   54,800
Pesticides                      2,500     1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    9,800    9,800    9,800    9,800    9,800
Harvesting Equipment                -         -         -        -        -    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Spray Equipment                     -         -        -         -        -    7,500    7,500    7,500    7,500    7,500
sacks                               -         -         -        -        -    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Transport                         100        50        50       50       50    5,800    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
Animal Health                     900       900       900      900      900       900      900      900      900       900
Animal Feed (Supplement)        1,300     1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300           |
Total             114,700    71,850   84,050   78,350   75,050  303,500  314,400  318,200  327,200  327,200
July, 1986.



COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DhVELOPMENT PREJECT
Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 4
Without                                     With Project
Item                         Project    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9+
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - - (C)- - - - - - - - - - - -  ---- - - - - - -
Labor
Family                      29,480         -    7,280    2,880         -   88,200   90,200   90,200   90,200   90,200
Hired                          500     3,200    1,400    1,200    1,500   30,600   44,400   47,800   55,100   55,100
Fertilizers                        -         -        -        -         -   51,900   45,700   45,700   45,700   45,700
Pesticides                         -         -        -         -        -    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300
Harvesting Equipment               -         -        -         -        -    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
Spray Equipment                    -         -        -        -         -    6,300    6,300    6,300    6,300    6,300
Sacks                              -         -        -        -         -    1,200    2,500    3,100    3,500    3,500
Transport                          -         -        -         -        -    4,800    4,100    4,100    4,100    4,100
Total              29,980     3,200    8,680    4,080    1,500  191,500  201,700  205,700  213,400  213,400
July, 1986.



COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Production and Maintenance Cost for Model 5
Without                                       With Project
Item                          Project    Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9+
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -(C)7 --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Labor
Family                       43,800    26,300   34,400   32,000   30,400   74,100   78,500   79,400   81,000   81,000
Hired                             -      4,900      800       800    1,000    4,600    6,300    6,800    8,300    8,300
Seeds (Maize)                     250        100      100       100      100       100      100       ioo      100       100
Fertilizers                         -          -        -         -        -   20,800   18,300   18,300   18,300   18,300
Pesticides                        700        300      300       300      300    3,300    3,300    3,300    3,300    3,300
Harvesting Equipment                -          -        -         -        -       500      500       500      500      500
Spray Equipment                     -          -        -         -        -    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500
Sacks                               -          -        -         -        -       500    1,000    1,200    1,400    1,400
Transport                          30         10        10       10       10    1,900    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700
mx
Animal Health                     600        600      600       600      600       600      600       600      600      600
Animal Feed (Supplement)          900        900      900       900      900       900      900       900      900      900
Total               46,280    33,110   37,110   34,710   33,310  109,800  113,700  115,300  118,600  118,600
_----                                              -.-,
July, 1986.



-74-                                                           M 3
RAML E     w
AumNd Productionmd H 1ntemxm 0bet fwr AU F~
Yw 1 Y   Yer 2   Yer 3  Yea4 Yar 5  Ywr 6  Yr 7  Yw8r a  I 9  Yer 10 Y                     11-40
------------- Two0.  --- -    .=-- --'XQ----                                    -
l1xld 1
bt  ut Project                      24,240  24,240  24,Wt0  24,240  24,240  24.240  24,240  24,240  24,240  24,240  24,240
Cbat wth prject b/
Fam eteriz  poject y-1 - 80        2,22D  11,980  11,980  11,98D  11,960  11.98D  11,96D  11,96D  11,98D  11,9E0  11,980
y-2 - 126         -   3,490  18.860  18,860  18.860  18,60  8J,0   18,860  18,80  18.860  1,860
y-3 - 73          -       -   2,02D  10,930  10,930  10,93D  10,930  10,93D  10,930  10,930  10,93D
y-4 - 53          -       -       -   1,470   7,930   7,930   7,93D   7,930   7,930   7,930   7,930
Farm not enterig  parject         18,400   9,200   3,870       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Nd1 2
Ot wirtb.Lt project                 13,710  13,710  13.710  13.710  13,710  13,710  13,710  13.710  13,710  13,710  13,710
Ohat with project:
Fn  etwl% pmject y-l - 32          1,600   2,090   1,821   1.630  12.630  13,140  13,340  13,340  13,340  13,340  13,340
,-2 - 51          -   2,540   3.330   2.900   2,6G0  20,13D  20.95D  21,250  21.250  21,250  21,250
y-3 - 29         -       -   1,450   1,900   1,650   1,48D  11,440  11,910  12,090  12,090  12,090
y  - 21           -       -       -   1,05D   1,370   1,190   1,070   8,290   8,620   8,750   8,750
F    eat ezeriz  projert          10,400   5,150   2,160       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Model 3
cha wiwut project                   42,050  41,050  42,050  42,050  42,050  42,05D  42.05D  42,050  42 W    42.050  42,050
axt with project:
Farm  -terl  project y-1 - 88      6,320   7,390   6,890   6,60D  26,660  27,670  28,D0  28,790  28,790  28,79D  28,790
y-2 - 139         -   9,980  11,680  10,880  10,42D  42,W   43,700  44,230  45,48D  45,480  45,480
y-3 - 82          -       -   5.890   6,890   6.420   6,15D  24.890  25,78D  26,100  26,83D  26,830
y-4 - 58          -       -       -   4,160   4,870   4,540   4,350  17,6S0  18,230  18,450  18,980
Farm not penhrg project           32.00   16,060   6,650       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
1M1 4
(bat       project                   1,800   I,80    10  1,80 1,800   1       1800   1,800   1.800   1,800   1,80D   1,800   1,800
Cbat %dth project:
n enterlmg project y-I - 14           40     120      60      2D   2,680   2,82D   2,890   2,99D   2,990   2,990   2,990
y- 2 - 23         -      74     20       9D       30   4,400   4,640   4,730   4,910   4,910   4,910
y-3- 13           -       -      40     110      50      aD   2,490   2,620   2,670   2.770   2,770
y  - 10           -       -       -       30     90       40      10   1,910   2,02D   2,060   2.130
Fant emterlrg prcdect              1,379     690     300       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -
1xdel 5
Chat witwut project                  6,940   6,940   6,940   6,940   6,940   6,940   6.940   6,940   6,940   6,940   6,940
Cat with project:
Fam enter1a  project y-1 - 36      1,190   1,340   1.250   1,200   3,950   4,090   4,15D   4,270   4,270   4,270   4,270
y-2 - 57          -   1,890   2,110   1,980   1,900   6,260   6,480   6,570   6,760   6,760   6,760
yf  - 33          -       -   1,090   1,220   1,140   1,1tD   3,67D   3,750   3,800   3,910   3,910
-4 - 24           -       -       -     790     890     930      800   2,630   2,730   2,770   2,850
F=n  not edflrg pmject             5,280   2,640   1,110       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -
Tetal for AIL Idels
Owt of pmuhtiea witIot project      88,740  87,740  88,740  88,740  88,740  85,740  85,740  88,740  8s,740   88,740 88,740
Ohat of productio with project      78,820  74,630  82,760  84,700 127,070 185,860 222,510 250,380 253,760  255,720 255,800
Tzcreeta1 production  -A           (9,920) (13,110) (5,980) (4,060) 3S,330  97,12D 133,770 161,640  165,0ZD  166,98D 167,060
a/ Year 1 In this cae -Eera to 1987.
b/ r refer to year.
July, 1966.



ATLANrIO AajLRMu& IE'EUft rr ncMr
Eomiadc Cost a8id Benefit Stream
With Project                       Without Project          Incremental        Net Bmdits wi* Project
Year                      COsts                 Benefits     Costs     Bemfits    Casts     Baf fits
Investment  Prockiction    Total
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - '1000 C) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1986          21,780       75,430      97,210   144,210     75,430    144,210       21,780           0             (21,780)
1987          189,330      67,000     256,330   141,550     75,430    144,210      180,900      (2,660)           (183,560)
1988          232,240      63,410     295,650   168,660     75,430    144,210      220,220      24,450            (195,770)
1989          216,660      70,300     286,960   219,260     75,430    144,210      211,530      75,050            (136,480)
1990          176,280      72,000     248,280   256,200     75,430    144,210      172,850     111,990            (60,860)
1991          156,110     107,950     264,060   305,700     75,430    144,210      188,630     161,490             (27,140)
1992          190,620     157,930     348,550   366,130     75,430    144,210      273,120     221,920             (51,200)
1993          214,210     189,120     403,330   441,190     75,430    144,210      327,900     296,980             (30,920)
1994               -      212,840     212,840   497,560     75,430    144,210      137,410     353,350             215,940
1995               -      215,640     215,640   539,990     75,430    144,210      140,210     395,780             255,570
1996               -      217,340     217,340   564,370     75,430    144,210      141,910     420,160             278,250
1997               -      217,350     217,350   566,600     75,430    144,210      141,920     422,390             280,470
1998-2025          -      217,350     217,350   568,400     75,430    144,210      141,920     424,190             282,270
July, 1986.
PuI
a%



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Sub-Sector
A-1 Secretaria Ejecutiva de Planificacion Sectorial Agropecuaria y de
Recursos Naturales Renovables. Programa de Fomento Cocotero,
September 1985.
A-2 BCCR. Leyes Bancarias y Otras Conexas (June 1984).
A-3 BNCR. Manual de Funciones - Unidad de Asistencia Tecnica.
A-4 Auditoria General de Bancos. Dictamen de los Estados Financieros e
Informes Complementarios del BNCR (as of December 31, 1984).
A-5 BCCR. Regulaciones Generales de Credito Dictada por el Banco Central de
Costa Rica con las Facultades que le Confieren las Leyes 1552 del 28 de
Abril de 1953 y 5044 del 13 de Septiembre de 1972.
A-6  IDA.  Ley de Desarrollo Agrario (1982).
B. Reports Relating to the Project
IDA/RUTA. Projecto de Desarrollo Agricola en la Zona Atlantica,
October 1984 (12 Volumes).
C. Working Documents
C-1 Working Paper on the Road Component.



-77-                                       CHART
COSTA RICA
ATLANTICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable for Implementatlon of Project Roads1
.EAR1 IUVW2                        VEAR3             YW4
I I I I I                          I T T T IIF      I lII  III
CMLWOKS'
Engnewrng Oe&I
A0i.&sm   & Con.c?gq'          182         Ad _8.0
MODi.zo?on & Courmosof2
I rwoa GW
2 Moc.
3 MOwan                       | 
4 Quiz 3l - Camon 2
a ura3o- uoaCroo k
5 Santa Rosa - El ta r.t.
S5nto ;Gw - El riuoa
I g~a. .
Zent Pominno                i
-aoa   Acnenance                                                                 _____
;~~~xxl ~ l-cnecc
EQUIPMENT
.3ffct    w   _;fli _srS
-Iavemusng mrmqran:"#.
Eauomaen? Gem.en.
0aaMnoa.   veos 4 arers Faf es s  .-_ 'n;;,
*  jIaZw s rgUW ro 0cnea crfltCS



133.3                                                                                                                                                                                               COSTA RICA
r                       \                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AILANTCO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
' ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~ J $   ' E                                                                                  --~~~~~~~~~~~~-   83l  A 33300OL*m
lI                                                                                ,                                                                             383AS31NIYNIC83SwohANDoeoo  3COCOA
/   \                                                                                                                 O       PKkIEr lla Inum    _    lo IN h eDel)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.33300333383.00033*0 031
~~~031                                                                               1                                                      .3. SL, :/ 
T     OT <-  -                         tm               _                                                                                                                           33*833 
RCA         X                                                                                                                                                       I      
, __            __     __      _    __|- __               _ _         __ __ ___,__ __ __                    _ _ _ _ _                   _                                            83433                                                        or 33                       3  3i333ER19






