Document of the
World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19147
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3495-VE)
June 9, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 4
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Bolivar (Bs.)
EXCHANGE RATES
(yearly average Bolivares per US dollar)
1991 = 56.8          1992 =68.4            1993 =90.8           1994 = 148.5
1995 =176.8          1996 =417.3           1997 =488.1           1998 = 548.7
(as of February 5, 1999)
US$1.00 = Bs.575.4
Bs.1.00 = US$0.0017
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
FIDES                Inter-governmental Fund for Decentralization (Fondo
Intergubernamentalpara la Decentralizaci6n)
FONVIS               Venezuela Fund for Social Investment (Fondo Venezolano de Inversi6n
Social)
FUNDACOMUN           Community and Municipal Development Foundation (Fundaci6n para el
Desarrollo de la Comunidady Fomento Municipal)
GOV                  Government of Venezuela
IESA                 Management and Business Administration Institute (Instituto de Estudios
Superiores de Adminstraci6n)
NGO                  Non-governmental organization
PMU                  Project management unit
PROINSOL             Social Infrastructure Investment Program (Programa de Inversi6n Social
Local)
PROMUEBA             Low Income Barrios Project (Proyecto de Mejoramiento Urbano en
Barrios - official name of Project in Venezuela)
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
TM                   Task Manager
Vice President                     Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director                   Mr. Andres Solimano
Sector Director                    Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                       Mr. M. Vitor Serra



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3495-VE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NUMBER
PREFACE   .......................................................................................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................I1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                 .3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                             .6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                  .8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                      .8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                     .9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                    .9
H. FUTURE OPERATION                                      .9
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .........................................                        12
APPENDIX A. MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .......................................                  21
APPENDIX B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .......................................        23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3495-VE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Low Income Barrios
Improvement Project in Venezuela for which Loan 3495-VE in the amount of US$40.0 million
equivalent was approved on March 14, 1991 and made effective on December 10, 1993.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1998, one year beyond the original closing date.
Final disbursement took place on May 18, 1999, at which time, a balance of US$1,480.148 was
cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Roy Gilbert, consultant, under the supervision of M. Vitor
Serra (Task Manager) and Dean Cira from the Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Departmnent (LACFSP) of the Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean.
The ICR is based upon project progress and audit reports, project files and interviews
with those responsible for the project. These included Bank staff and consultants in Washington
D.C., FUNDACOMUN staff, and local officials, community representatives and local residents in
the barrios visited by the ICR mission in the states of Tachira and Anzoategui in Venezuela.
The ICR incorporates translations of summaries of the evaluation report on this project
prepared by the borrower. The full report is available upon request.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3495-VE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    The PROMUEBA project was one of the first Bank financed operations in Venezuela
following the country's economic setbacks of the 1980s. It was one of the first operations
financed by the Bank in Venezuela for twenty years. Project preparation was not an easy task for
a borrower-used to being a creditor-unfamiliar with Bank rules and procedures and a World
Bank unfamiliar with the country context and sector. PROMUEBA design focused upon
supporting two GOV programs at the same time, namely poverty reduction in the context of
macro-economic adjustment and decentralization of public sector responsibilities to newly
enfranchised local municipal administrations, whose first mayors were elected in 1989.
Project Objectives and Description
ii.    Focusing upon informal low-income urban settlements-known as "barrios" in
Venezuela-the project aimed to: (i) improve the living conditions of the residents by introducing
infrastructure services; (ii) strengthen municipal management capabilities; and (iii) build up the
ability of FUNDACOMUN-Venezuela's principal agency for dealing with municipal
development-to provide technical assistance to municipalities.
iii.   To achieve this, the Project consisted of the following: (i) infrastructure services for
barrios (including water supply, sewerage and paving); (ii) building up municipal institutional
capacity; (iii) FUNDACOMUN institutional strengthening; and (iv) studies.
iv.    The infrastructure component was only apilot operation. The problem of poorly serviced
and illegal barrios, home to half of Venezuela's urban population, was and remains huge. The
municipal technical assistance program, already large in face of the perceived institutional
weakness of municipalities, grew even larger during implementation in response to additional
demand by states. By completion, it became one of the largest technical assistance efforts to
support local government ever financed by the World Bank.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    From field visits during the completion mission, it looks likely that the Project achieved
its objective of improving living conditions in low-income barrios. Improvements in sanitation
especially were made in 104 barrios in 45 municipalities, benefiting 66,031 families. This
exceeded the appraisal target of 46,000 families, even though final costs for this component were
19% lower than planned. Actual results in terms of changed living conditions of the beneficiaries
were, however, not monitored as intended at appraisal.
vi.   Preliminary evidence points to the greater planning, administrative and executive
capabilities of municipalities in fulfillment of the second objective of PROMUEBA. Mayors took
a proactive and managerial approach to development. Altogether, 45 municipalities borrowed
PROMUEBA funds to finance infrastructure, and 85% have already started making interest



ii
payments on them. The very large technical assistance component was a major challenge to
implement on a day-to-day basis. If overloaded, an executing capacity risks losing sight of the
purpose of the technical assistance effort and neglects to focus upon monitoring the likely
achievement. The third PROMUEBA objective of strengthening FUNDACOMUN's
administrative capacity was amply achieved. Thanks to the Project, a much stronger
FUNDACOMUN was able to transform and redeem itself to become GOV's prime agency for
community and municipal development. During implementation, FUNDACOMUN modernized
its management structure and staffing and introduced a computer network to link its headquarters
departments with its regional offices.
vii.   Factors beyond the control of the borrower and/or FUNDACOMUN that helped project
performance included: (i) intense project preparation and supervision by the Bank; (ii) steady
evolution of municipal governance in Venezuela as planned. Working against the project-but
less than expected, thanks to mayors'partial immunity-were Venezuela's weak macro-economy
during implementation and the destabilizing oil price factor.
viii.  Factors under the control of the borrower and/or FUNDACOMUN that helped project
performance included: (i) substantial GOV counterpart and FUNDACOMUN's strong cash
position; (ii) sound leadership and skilled management of FUNDACOMUN; (iii) GOV and Bank
determination to improve the performance of the Venezuela portfolio. Working negatively against
the Project, though, was FUNDACOMUN's inadequate monitoring of project achievement and
its failure to audit the Project in a timely fashion.
ix.    As the Project achieved most of its objectives its overall rating is given here as
satisfactory. It might have been a candidate for highly satisfactory had monitoring and auditing
been conducted more effectively. Institutional development impact is rated assubstantial in view
of the substantive changes the Project effected in inter-governmental relations in Venezuela.
Sustainability, driven by strong demand for PROMUEBA products by mayors assured of a
continuing role in decentralization, is rated as likely.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
x.    As intended, the project succeeded in improving the living conditions in low-income
barrios of Venezuelan cities by providing large amounts of basic infrastructure-notably paved
streets and water supply-to 104 barrios in 45 municipalities. The project also succeeded in
improving the planning, administrative and executive capabilities of participant municipalities:
municipal revenues increased, local administrations borrowed and repaid loan funds for the first
time and the project financed 735 technical assistance actions to help municipal management and
revenue mobilization. Also as intended, FUNDACOMUN was strengthened through the project:
as it had been in the 1970s, it became once again Venezuela's prime agency for community and
municipal development.
xi.    The future operation of PROMUEBA's products, nevertheless, is in the hands of
municipal administrations in Venezuela. Mayors' newly acquired project culture-thanks in large
part to the Project-will help ensure the continuing effective operation of the project facilities.
xii.   Lessons for future projects in Venezuela and elsewhere include:
o  A strong cash position of a project executing agency not only assures buoyant
implementation, it helps to build (municipal) client confidence in the operation. The
design of projects of this kind in the future could well address the issue of how to help
strengthen executing agencies' cash positions, and look into possible Bank assistance to
support this.



iii
o  Above average Bank staff-effort into both project preparation and supervision in difficult
country-or sub-national--circumstances can pay off handsomely. Extra Bank resources
during preparation helps ensure high project quality at entry in circumstances with which
the Bank was unfamiliar. More resources for supervision in a situation of uncertainty
allows an intensive and proactive approach to build Bank/borrower trust and steer a
project through an uncertain macro-context, such as that experienced by Venezuela
during 1994-98.
L  Staff continuity involving experienced and skilled individuals in both the borrower and
Bank teams cements relationships and contributes to project success. FUNDACOMUN's
Presidency being continually in the skillful hands of one person from 1994 until Project
completion was a factor in project success. So too, was constancy in the staffing of the
PROMUEBA project team during this period. For its part, the Bank also ensured
continuity. It fielded two TMs only-one for preparation and appraisal and one for
supervision-both with the experience and skill to fully engage the borrower, and
supported by experienced and dedicated task teams.
a  There is need for both borrower and Bank to focus constantly during project
implementation upon the objectives of an operation and develop monitoring systems to
measure the extent to which they are achieved. Project monitoring should be given
priority at the outset of implementation, and constantly highlighted during supervision
missions.
D  Projects that can make only fractional improvements to enormous problems such as
Venezuela's urban barrios should give pointers to big picture/long term solutions. As a
pilot project, PROMUEBA could meet only a small part of the demand for barrio
improvement directly, but the operation helped lay the foundation for an overall vision of
the problem of shelter and urban services for the poor in Venezuela, a vision shared by
GOV and the Bank during the current period of political transition in the country. In part,
this vision foresees the engagement of new actors-notably the private sector and
NGOs-in barrio upgrading and housing improvement finance, such as have been
incorporated in the Caracas Slum Upgrading Project. Venezuelan authorities are at
present seeking ways, with the assistance of the Bank, to replicate the Caracas effort at
the national level. Thus a pilot project-such as PROMUEBA-consolidated by a
follow-on operation and an active sector dialogue can help establish the basis for long-
term solutions to large-scale sector problems beyond the remit of any single operation.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3495-VE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1. The objectives of PROMUEBA-the operation's Venezuelan name widely used in the Bank
too-were formulated in special circumstances during 1990-92. The Bank resumed lending to
Venezuela for the first time in two decades. For most of the 1970s and 1980s, when oil
revenues-that account for 70% of GOV income-were buoyant, Venezuela itself was a net
creditor to Bank to the tune of US$500 million. Falling crude oil prices and an economic crisis
that suddenly turned a lender/borrower relationship on its head, was a risky situation in which to
prepare a new lending operation. Adaptability and flexibility was needed on both sides.
2. GOV officials had to take on the role of borrower abruptly and unexpectedly. Bank staff had
to deal with an unfamiliar borrower, since the Bank had little institutional memory of its earlier
1960s programs in Venezuela. GOV familiarity with Bank procedures and rules, and Bank prior
knowledge of the Venezuelan sector and its institutions were absent. Such familiarity could be
taken for granted in other countries with ongoing lending programs, but not in the Venezuela of
the early 1990s. An added difficulty was insufficient coordination with the IDB, that was
preparing a competing program called PROINSOL at the same time. The Bank therefore
launched a major project preparation effort for PROMUEBA-128 staff-weeks over five
missions, nearly twice sector/region averages-to secure high quality of entry of the Project in
largely unknown country circumstances.
3. At the country level though, GOV and the Bank quickly agreed a development strategI and
2
PROMUEBA fitted neatly two of its vectors, namely: (i) tackling pervasive urban poverty; and
(ii) supporting govemment policy of decentralization toward municipalities.3 A key to project
design was how to effectively harness the input of Venezuelan institutions long active in the
sector, but which had to adapt to the market driven approach to development adopted by GOV
after 1989. The PROMUEBA Project executing agency FUNDACOMUN was a perfect case in
point: its had been active in community and municipal development since 1962, but needed to
I Published in a summary form in: World Bank Venezuela and the World Bank: Preparing for the Future
Washington D.C. September 1992
2 Even with the highest GDP per capita in Latin America until the mid 1980s, Venezuela's social indicators
and incidence of poverty-which worsened in the late 1980s-were already those of a much poorer
country. PROMUEBA's own poverty focus was driven by the recommendations of the Bank's Venezuela
Poverty Study: from Generalized Subsidies to Targeted Programs of Dec. 14, 1990 (report # 9114-VE).
3Two new laws of 1989 placed Venezuelan municipalities at the forefront of decentralization: (i) Ley de
Decentralizaci6ny Transferencia de Competencias; and (ii) Ley Orgdnica de Regimen Municipal 1989.
Despite Venezuela's long democratic tradition by the standards of Latin America, its centralized political
structure meant that the first municipal elections in recent history were held only in 1989.



2
modernize dramatically. Well-founded project design, persistent proactive Bank supervision and
dynamic leadership in FUNDACOMUN itself after 1994, helped redeem that agency-for which
there was no substitute in 1992-and ensure project success.
4. PROMUEBA's overall objective was to promote social development through providing
services to the poor and to modernize the public sector through decentralizing to municipalities
and strengthening their management capacity. Despite country risks and volatility, this same
project objective was sustained throughout implementation. Bank country policy for this sector
also remained consistent over a very volatile period. The 1997 CAS, for instance (report # 16471-
VE paras. 11-12), like its predecessor documents of the early 1990s, is still committed to the twin
track poverty reduction and decentralization.4
5. As described in the SAR and Loan Agreement, PROMUEBA's specific aims, which can
translate into operational targets, were to:
o  improve living conditions in low-income barrios through the provision and improvement
of basic urban infrastructure services:
0  develop the planning, administrative and executive capabilities of the municipalities-in
support of the Venezuelan government's decentralization policy-by making
municipalities responsible for sub-project execution and introducing fundamental
municipal management concepts such as project evaluation and monitoring, fiscal
responsibility, cost recovery, and maintenance; and
u strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of FUNDACOMUN in order to
improve its ability to assist municipalities. (SAR 3. 1; LA Schedule 2).
6. To achieve these aims, the Project foresaw the implementation of the following components:
u  Part A: Improvement of Infrastructure Services in Low-income Barrios: construction of
basic infrastructure and purchase of equipment to extend or improve municipal services
such as water supply, sewerage, electricity, drainage, paving of roads and pedestrian
paths, and solid waste collection in selected low-income barrios (US$60.9 million, or
71.2% of total costs);
u  Part B.1: Development of Municipalities' Institutional Capacity: through material
support, technical assistance, staff training and studies in the areas of municipal
legislation, tax administration, municipal cadastre, solid waste management, urban
planning and preparation and evaluation of investment projects (US$15.3 million, or
17.9% of total costs);
o  Part B.2: FUNDACOMUN Institutional Strengthening: by financing the preparation of
an organizational development plan; the development of a management information
system, technical assistance for project management, policy studies and surveys, staff
training and vehicles and equipment (US$8.3 million, or 9.7% of total costs).
o  Part C: Studies: of (i) the design of a municipal information system; (ii) municipal
finances; (iii) analysis of third national inventory of barrios; (iv) constraints upon
development of land market, especially issues of land regularization by municipalities
(US$ 1.0 million, or 1.2% of total costs).
4 Decentralization is expected to remain on the agenda. Recent projections for the year 2005 show
municipal expenditures accounting for 3.1% of GDP, up from 1.8% In 1998. See: Rafael de la Cruz
Decentralizaci6n en Perspectiva Fundaci6n Escuela de Gerencia Social, Ediciones IESA, Caracas 1998.



3
7. The barrios problem was and remains huge; some four million families accounting for more
than half of Venezuela's urban population live in barrios. At appraisal, the country already had
269 municipalities. Clearly, the Project-with an estimated total cost of US$85.5 million-would
tackle only a fraction of the problems in the sector. For that reason, PROMUEBA was designed
as a pilot operation to "provide the foundation for a comprehensive municipal development
project to finance a much larger program of urban infrastructure and barrio improvements" (SAR
3.2). The municipal technical assistance component (B.1) costing US$15.3 million and
accounting for 17.9% of total project costs, represented a large program, but was felt to fit the
needs of institutionally weak municipalities. During implementation, greater demand by states on
behalf of municipalities led to further expansion of the technical assistance program, which at
US$27.9 million, constitutes one of the largest urban technical assistance efforts financed by the
Bank worldwide.
8. The Project initially focused upon larger municipalities (pop. >50,000) where mostbarrios in
Venezuela were located. During implementation, eligibility for PROMUEBA funding was
extended to all municipalities, regardless of size. In practice, this change of eligibility criteria
facilitated the implementation of the Project's large municipal technical assistance component,
which was deployed to many smaller cities. On the other hand, the change had little impact upon
the Project's infrastructure component which continued to be implemented in the 45 larger
municipalities originally envisioned at appraisal.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Objective 1: Improved living conditions in low-income barrios of Venezuelan cities
9. It is likely that the Project achieved a lot through providing large amounts of basic
infrastructure to 104 low-income barrios in 45 municipalities throughout the country. This
consisted, among other things, of 147.2 kms of paved streets and 108.4 kms of water distribution
network. Altogether, this infrastructure directly benefited 66,031 families, far exceeding the
appraisal target of 46,000 families. This is a noteworthy achievement, giving that the actual cost
of the infrastructure component was 19% below the appraisal target. Environmental conditions
further improved thanks to the collection services provided by 50 garbage trucks in 46
municipalities throughout Venezuela. Concentrated effort by FUNDACOMUN with the
assistance of Bank missions and the Bank's Caracas Representative Office helped make
procurement more efficient and bring down unit costs.
10. FUNDACOMUN estimates made at completion indicate an average internal economic rate of
return (IERR) of the order of 18.9%. This is a very satisfactory result indicating that,
notwithstanding difficult macro-economic conditions during implementation, the PROMUEBA
investments were worthwhile from an economic point of view. The slightly higher appraisal
IERR estimate of 21.8% was based upon assumptions of a more optimistic macro-economic
scenario that actually occurred.
11. Two caveats are nevertheless called for. Firstly, monitoring of actual Projectresults in terms
of improved living conditions was not carried out as intended at appraisal. Consequently, we do
not know how precisely how conditions improved for the low-income population in project
barrios-say gains in environmental health through better sanitation, or higher levels of
employment through better access. Neither do we know, of course, the unit cost of such
improvements. Even so, direct observation of five improved barrios during the completion
mission and discussions with beneficiaries confirmed the likely achievement of better living
conditions. The second caveat is that PROMUEBA did not lead to a plan, program or approach
for tackling the enormous issue of low-income barrios as a whole. While the Project did not give



4
explicit pointers for tackling Venezuela's remaining unimproved barrios as a whole-as was
intended at appraisal-PROMUEBA's experience did provide some important lessons for
important follow-on operations, such as the Caracas Slum-Upgrading Project and the proposed
PROMUEBA II.
Objective 2: Greater planning, administrative and executive capabilities of municipalities
12. There is preliminary evidence of institutional development occurring within Venezuelan
municipalities, enabling PROMUEBA participants to achieve this objective. By 1998,
Venezuelan municipalities' total revenues were US$47.3 million, 150% higher than before the
PROMUEBA project in 1991. On the other hand, the share of municipal tax revenues in the
total-whose increase would have been expected to follow technical assistance for cadastre and
tax collection improvements-has thus far remained unchanged. The Project has nevertheless
been a mayors' "open university" for learning the rules of the game of inter-governmental finance
and relations in a market economy in Venezuela. Altogether, 45 municipalities borrowed funds
under the Project-22 of them more than once-to pay for infrastructure investments. At the time
of writing, they have repaid interest on 85% of all loans taken out. This experience has fed
preliminary IESA-FONVIS work in rating municipalities according to six levels of credit-
worthiness, a first for the country. For so many mayors to be managing credit in this way amounts
to a revolution of the precepts of local municipal administration in Venezuela.
13. Venezuelan mayors-especially those of the second batch elected in 1995-have taken a
proactive and managerial stance toward local development. Mayors became lobbyists to the
national congress and ministries in Caracas on behalf of the PROMUEBA project. They
enthusiastically accepted FUNDACOMUN as a preferred development partner. PROMUEBA
resources were fewer and provided under tighter conditions than those of other GOV programs,
but mayors had more confidence that they would be provided. During 1995-97, for instance,
PROMUEBA awarded less than 20% of the funding given by FIDES. Rules of access to
PROMUEBA were clear and transparent, however, and availability of funding was less
capricious, than other GOV programs financed directly by volatile oil money5.
14. The Project itself financed 735 technical assistance actions in 235 municipalities in the areas
of Municipal Finance, Cadastres, Urban Planning, Social Development, Project Formulation,
Environmental Sanitation and Planning of Local Administration. Of these, 189 had their
budgeting processing-which had formerly been done inefficiently by hand-automated and
computerized through PROMUEBA. This new approach to budgeting represents a fundamental
change and innovation in municipal management, especially as it has now been implemented in
nearly all municipalities in Venezuela. An already large (US$15.3 million at appraisal) municipal
technical assistance program was, through additional GOV counterpart not originally foreseen,
considerably enlarged to US$25.5 million. This made it one of the largest technical assistance
efforts in the urban sector financed anywhere by the World Bank. Fully implementing such a
large program-which required bunching of several municipalities' TA into large consulting
contracts-became a major challenge to the FUNDACOMUN team and an end in itself. One risk
of overloading implementation capacity in this way is to lose sight of thepurpose of the whole
technical assistance effort and ensuring computer models are applied in practice to achieve the
5Of course as with all public sector programs in Venezuela, PROMUEBA is not immune to oil price
shocks, but the Project volatility is constrained by multi-year financial commitments and programming.
6 Probably the only larger Bank financed effort was the US$42.8 million invested in technical assistance as
part of the Indonesia: Urban Sector Loan (Loan 2816-IND) with a total project cost of US$1,005.8 million.



5
program objectives. The quality of the assistance provided under PROMUEBA to municipalities
has been mixed. In most cases specific products have been installed, such as a procedures to
computerize the cadastre, but there are no resources available thus far to implement all the
property registrations that would be necessary to strengthen tax collection, for instance.
Consequently, it is still too early to expect to find robust evidence of improved municipal
revenues. Thus far, the broadest impact of the TA program has been the widespread innovation of
computerized budgeting procedures in nearly all of Venezuela's municipalities.
15. Another factor working against municipal management strengthening in Venezuela has been
the proliferation of 61 new municipalities since 1992. New municipalities debilitate the old ones
they separated from, and the new ones themselves can rarely stand on their own two feet.
Objective 3: FUNDA COMUN's strengthened administrative and technical capacity
16. Thanks to the Project, a much stronger FUNDACOMUN was able to transform and redeem
itself to become GOV's prime agency to manage community and municipal development in a
modern, market oriented Venezuela. Among the solid evidence of this achievement: (i) more than
tenfold increase in the agency's budget in real terms over the 1991-98 period; (ii) 1995
restructuring making PROMUEBA FUNDACOMUN's mainstream activity; (iii) reorganization
of staffing with much greater reliance upon highly qualified consultants; (iv) computerization of
the agency's information systems with a network linking all headquarters' departments in
Caracas, as well as the field offices throughout Venezuela; (v) intensive professional training
programs fielding 33 high level courses; and (vi) delegation of oversight responsibilities to
FUNDACOMUN field offices who could give hands-on advice much appreciated by local
mayors.
17. Even though it is too early to judge the results of PROMUEBA's technical assistance
component, achieving the implementation of one of the largest efforts of this kind ever financed
by the World Bank anywhere, is an indicator of FUNDACOMUN's strengthened implementation
skills and enlarged capacity. It gave FUNDACOMUN a first time opportunity in Venezuela to
handle a large number of private consultant contracts, including those with foreign consulting
firms.
18. FUNDACOMUN, as GOV's key interlocutor in municipal development, benefited from
special studies financed by the project. Four of the five studies were implemented. The municipal
finance study and national inventory of barrios particularly contributed to FUNDACOMUN's
store of sector knowledge. The study of land tenure regularization highlighted the need for
legalized land ownership at project start-up, something that was incorporated into the design of
the follow on PROMUEBA-Caracas project. Only one study-the evaluation of the project's
poverty impact-was not implemented at all. Its low priority was a result of the broader lack of
attention given to project monitoring as a whole
19. One key caveat is in order, however. FUNDACOMUN's record keeping and accounting were
not up to the standards expected for a project of this scale and importance and
FUNDACOMUN's performance management of project audits was inept. Throughout
implementation, FtNDACOMUN and PROMUEBA accounts were delayed. Most seriously, and
in breach of legal agreements, all project audits were late-on average by 10 months-leading
the Bank to warn of possible suspension of disbursements on a number of occasions. Poor record
keeping, accounting and auditing cloud what otherwise appear to be major PROMUEBA
achievements -with respect to strengthening FUNDACOMUN. Moreover, they can undermine
confidence in the accuracy of the reported results. In hindsight, the Bank shares some
responsibility for this outcome. Its willingness to prepare, appraisal and make a loan effective



6
without access to audited accounts of all parties to the project set a precedent that was emulated
throughout project implementation.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Beyond GOV/FUNDACOMUJN Control
20. Positive - Intense project preparation and supervision by the Bank. Bank staff resources
were well above average for the sector or the region. This enabled preparation missions to give
much direct assistance to the borrower through to appraisal. During supervision, it allowed an
equally intensive staff effort to guide and lead FUNDACOMUN through the details of project
implementation as well as listen to borrower concems about the Project. The role of the Bank's
resident mission in Caracas was particularly important with respect to the latter. Staff continuity
on the Bank side was an important factor in project success. Having only two Bank task
managers-both highly skilled and experienced-from identification to completion, ensured
consistent design and supervision work. Having stable Bank interlocutors also made the
borrower's work easier. In both cases, the TMs were supported by capable and dedicated task
teams.
21. Positive - Steady evolution of municipal governance as planned in Venezuela. In spite of
political instability at the national level, and the deterioration of the macro-economy during the
lifetime of PROMUEBA, political evolution stayed on-track at the local level in Venezuela.
Mayors were elected for the first time ever in 1989, a necessary condition for a PROMUEBA
style project. The second set of municipal election in December 1995, as planned, brought a
second batch of mayors to office-only 20% of the 1989 mayors were re-elected. As
PROMUEBA clients, the new mayors gave a technical and developmental stimulus impulse to
local administration. These mayors were particularly open to receiving technical assistance via
the project, an openness that is rare in countries of the region where elected mayors as a group
have had a longer track record.
22. Mildly Negative - Weak macro-economy and the oil factor since 1992. Surprisingly,
Venezuela's adverse circumstances of declining GDP per capita, banking crises and
unpredictably economic policy shifts seem to have inflicted little harm upon the Project itself. For
instance, the 1994-95 period, which saw major bank failures and unorthodox policies leading to a
virtual economic collapse (CAS 1997 para. 3) was precisely when FUNDACOMUN was able to
raise most additional GOV counterpart funding and when Bank disbursements accelerated.
Project financial performance became even stronger, however, when GOV formally recognized
the return to market-oriented policies in 1996. Unlike what has been observed at the national
level, mayors appeared immune to the workings of what the 1997 CAS called the "oil price
factor"-namely that government interest in Bank assistance is negatively correlated with oil
prices. For PROMUEBA funding-both Bank disbursement and GOV counterpart-the best year
was 1996, but that was precisely when the price of crude oil had peaked to US$25 per barrel.7
The CAS's "oil price factor" would lead us to expect municipal demand for project resources to
fall at that time. Clearly, local mayors-for being one step removed from resource allocation at
the national level-are less susceptible to the volatility of oil driven revenues than are national
political leaders of central government departments. Another factor favoring municipal demand
7 According to the New York Mercantile Exchange the following benchmark crude oil prices per barrel
were observed at key moments during the life of PROMUEBA: (i) Project Appraisal 1992 - US$19.0; (ii)
Election of new mayors end 1994 - US$17.5; (iii) Acceleration of PROMUEBA disbursements 1995 -
US$17.5; (iv) Peak PROMUEBA disbursements 1996 - US$25.0; (v) Project completion 1999 - US$11.0.



7
for PROMUEBA funding was that reliable alternative sources of financing were simply not
available to them.
Subject to GOV/FUNDACOMUN Control
23. Positive- Substantial GOV counterpart and FUNDACOMUN's strong cash position.
FUNDACOMUN's financial strength meant PROMUEBA implementation was no longer
hostage to delayed reimbursements from the Project's Special Account-typically inordinate in
Venezuela, nor vulnerable to lack of municipal counterpart. After successfully negotiating major
injections of GOV counterpart funds from  1995 until completion, FUNDACOMUN could
provide bridge funding, pending the receipt of Bank disbursements. It could also offer
municipalities up front funding for all Project expenditures. As well as guaranteeing accelerated
project implementation, FUNDACOMUN's buoyant finances gave its municipal clients
confidence that the PROMUEBA project was for real.
24. Positive - Sound leadership and skilled management of FUNDACOMUN. The agency's
President since 1994 provided savvy leadership in three key areas that contributed to project
success: (i) successful mobilization of GOV counterpart through negotiations with the Congress,
the Ministry of Family and Ministry of Finance; (ii) mobilizing mayors to support the Project and
also engaging State Governors-not contemplated as PROMUEBA participants in the original
project design-in the Project; and (iii) effective leadership of PROMUEBA managers and staff.
There was also skillful management of all key aspects of Project implementation, including: (i)
building up, coordinating and maintaining FUNDACOMUN's management team; (ii)
maintaining a dynamic and open dialogue with the Bank; (iii) direct oversight of PROMUEBA
actions through frequent field visits; and (iv) delegation of responsibilities beyond the President's
professional specialty, such as project financial management, for example.
25. Positive - GOV and Bank determination to improve performance of Venezuela portfolio. In
1996, the Bank's overall portfolio of projects in Venezuela was one of the worst performing in
the world. Its disbursement ratio was only 6%, against a Bank-wide average of 22%. The Bank
and GOV agreed a Portfolio Improvement Program (PIP) which sought, a condition of which was
the achievement of a disbursement ratio of at least 15% and a share of problem projects of no
more than 20% before any new projects would be approved. This gave GOV an important
incentive to improve portfolio performance as a whole. The PIP posed a challenge to
FU-NDACOMUN's team; they wanted to show that Venezuela's performance through
PROMUEBA would not only improve, but would also excel. Portfolio performance indeed
improved dramatically, with PROMUEBA itself leading the pack.
26. Negative - Inadequate monitoring of project performance and auditing. FUNDACOMUN
did not develop project performance monitoring indicators as agreed at appraisal. Thus,
evaluation reports do not rielate project actions in infrastructure or technical assistance to the
achievement of project objectives on the ground. For much of the time, project implementation,
especially of the municipal technical assistance component, was pursued as an end in itself
without a clearly formulated idea of the intended achievements in terms of strengthened
municipal finances, for instance. Furthermore in the case of technical assistance,
FUNDACOMUN cost control systems could not easily reveal the unit cost of interventions at the
level of the municipality, an essential ingredient of future cost planning of municipal
improvement. FUNDACOMUN's weakest reporting performance relates however, to accounting
8 For its analysis of this problem, the country department used the following concept of disbursement ratio
= amounted disbursed divided by loan commitment at project start-up.



8
and audits. Throughout project implementation audit reports were late, and regularly included
important qualifications. As well as leading the Bank to warn of possible suspension of
disbursements, the Project's poor audit performance raises doubts about the accuracy of the
project results reported.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27. Likely - Increasing the chances of project sustainability is PROMUEBA's proven resilience
in the face of macro-economic and national political turbulence. Involving many municipalities
spreads risks at a level of government demonstrably immune to some extent from oil price
volatility. Constant fiscal squeeze on the national government is probably the strongest guarantee
of continued decentralization. PROMUEBA experience to date has further demonstrated that
mayors have been inculcated with a more technical project culture and continue to express a
strong demand for the kind of services provided under the Project.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
28. Project Identification and Preparation Assistance - Highly Satisfactory: In a country
without a precedent for this kind of Bank-financed project, the Bank's experienced
identification/preparation team-drawing upon examples from Bank financed projects in Brazil
and Colombia particularly-successfully assembled the design elements for a realistic operation.
Mission identification work was, however, made difficult given the Bank's lack of familiarity
with Venezuela and its urban sector institutions. Mission preparation efforts were sometimes
thwarted by the borrower's own lack of experience in dealing with the Bank and by competing
programs-such as those financed by IDB-within different ministries. Persistent efforts on both
sides, nevertheless, ensured the emergence of a coherent Project. During preparation, Bank
missions were able to provide considerable assistance to FUNDACOMUN, notably in the design
of infrastructure sub-projects and their technical and economic evaluations. FlJNDACOMUN has
since perfected these procedures and now applies them very effectively. The well-above-average
Bank staff effort at this stage was money well-spent on preparing a project in difficult country
and sector circumstances.
29. Project Appraisal - Satisfactory: Thorough project preparation made project appraisal
relatively straightforward and guaranteed high quality at entry of this project into the Venezuela
portfolio. Most appraisal effort went into securing final agreements on financial conditions of
lending to municipalities and reconciling PROMUEBA's terms with those of the competing
PROINSOL project. Finalizing these details required an additional short mission to be fielded
after appraisal.
30. Project Supervision - Highly Satisfactory. Nearly all supervision was overseen by a single
TM, with good interpersonal skills for teamwork. Over a period of four years the TM skillfully
engaged the borrower and FUNDACOMUN in what became a joint effort toward effective
project implementation. The open, listening style of supervision adopted did require considerable
and imaginative interaction with the borrower, far beyond formal mission meetings leading to a
draft aide memoire, for instance. It included seeking out sector experts throughout Venezuela
beyond the executing agency to constitute a "technical lobby" in support of PROMUEBA within
the country. It also led to regular visits by FUNDACOMUN management to Washington and to
other projects in neighboring countries, and also to visits by the Bank's own management to the
PROMUEBA project, especially in the field. Appropriately staffed supervision missions were
fielded regularly and, in an atmosphere of mutual trust and confidence, were able to quickly
identify necessary changes in project procedures as needed. Professional inputs of high caliber



9
from the Bank's resident mission in Caracas were available to tackle immediate issues arising
from project implementation rapidly and on the spot. Above average Bank supervision staff effort
contributed to a highly satisfactory supervision experience, one that was  appreciated by
FUNDACOMUN as one of guidance and orientation. Most importantly, regular and adequate
budget allocations for supervision-complemented by "spillovers" from other project preparation
work, and other off-budget sources-contributed to this operation's successful performance
which was outstanding in the Venezuela portfolio.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31. Project Preparation - Satisfactory: Preparation was not an easy task either for the borrower
or for FUNDACOMUN; neither was familiar with Bank rules and procedures and the
idiosyncrasies of Bank financed projects. FUNDACOMUN in particular at that time, a
community and municipal development agency with a thirty year track record at the time of
appraisal, needed to acquire a business-oriented approach and substantially re-tool itself to that
end. In hindsight, the old FUNDACOMUN made serious inroads into its reform while preparing
the PROMUEBA project. Intensive interaction and good dialogue with Bank preparation
missions facilitated this process. This was in spite of political uncertainties surrounding the
agency that led to frequent changes of top management during project preparation.
32. Implementation - Satisfactory: Under the President in charge of FUNDACOMUN since
1994, implementation performance to completion was excellent. A loan extension only became
necessary owing to the slow project start-up in the previous period. At the end of the day, GOV
made the necessary contributions to PROMUEBA counterpart, almost to the level in US dollars
originally agreed at appraisal. This was despite inflation eroding values in the local currency
during implementation. For its part, FUNDACOMUN-under the post 1994 presidency-
succeeded in mobilizing substantial financial resources and also political support for the Project
among mayors, state governors, key ministers and even the national congress. These efforts
ensured buoyant implementation, that FUNDACOMUN managed in a satisfactory way. Had it
not been for FUNDACOMUN's failure to account for the Project in a timely manner and
considerable delays Project audits, its rating under this heading would have been highly
satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33. Overall - Satisfactory: The project achieved most of its objectives and is thus rated
satisfactory. Had its results on the ground been more thoroughly monitored and its accounts and
audits better managed, PROMUEBA could have been a candidate for an overall rating of highly
satisfactory. The satisfactory results obtained are particularly significant, given the difficult
macro-economic and national political conditions in which this Project was implemented and to
which a number of its fellow operations in the Venezuela portfolio succumbed.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
34. The future operation of PROMUEBA infrastructure and technical assistance facilities is now
in the hands of municipal administrations in Venezuela. Experience largely gleaned through
PROMUEBA itself has shown how these administrations and their political leaders have matured
and improved considerably since they first started work in 1989. With their newly acquired
project culture and growing resources assured through continuing decentralization, local mayors
will be in a good position to ensure the future operation of these facilities. A few mayors may still



10
fail, but the large numbers involved spread the risk and considerably diminish the chance of
outright failure.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35. There are many lessons to be learned from many aspects of this Project experience. Among
the most important:
o  A strong cash position of a proje-t executing agency not only assures buoyant
implementation, it helps to build (municipal) client confidence in the operation. Thanks
to adequate GOV counterpart funding and its skillful mobilization by FUNDACOMUN,
the PROMUEBA project was not held hostage to delayed disbursements from the Special
Account, nor the lack of local counterpart funding. The design of projects of this kind in
the future could well address the issue of how to help strengthen executing agencies' cash
positions, and look into possible Bank assistance to support this.
j  Above average Bank staff effort into both project preparation and supervision in difficult
country-or sub-national-circumstances can pay off handsomely. A highly satisfactory
Bank performance helped secure the better-than-expected outcome of the PROMUEBA
project. Extra Bank resources during preparation helps ensure high project quality at
entry in circumstances with which the Bank was unfamiliar. More resources for
supervision in a situation of uncertainty allows an intensive and proactive approach to
build Bank/borrower trust and steer a project through an uncertain macro-context, such as
that experienced by Venezuela during 1994-98.
ci Staff continuity involving experienced and skilled individuals on both the borrower and
Bank sides cements relationships and contributes to project success. FUNDACOMUN's
Presidency being in the skillful hands of one person from 1994 until project completion
was a factor in project success. So too, was constancy in the staffing of the PROMUEBA
project team during this period. The earlier frequent turnover of FUNDACOMUN
presidents stalled project development. For its part, the Bank also ensured continuity. It
fielded two TMs only-one for preparation and appraisal and one for supervision-both
with the experience and skill to fully engage the borrower, and mobilize effective task
teams.
L  There is need for both borrower and Bank to focus constantly during project
implementation upon the objectives of an operation and develop monitoring systems to
measure the extent to which they are achieved. As nearly happened in the case of
PROMUEBA's very large technical assistance component, day-to-day implementation by
itself can become such a challenge, that project teams can lose sight of why a component
is being implemented. Project monitoring should be given priority at the outset of
implementation, and constantly highlighted during supervision missions.
L  Projects that can make only fractional improvements to enormous problems such as
Venezuela's urban barrios should give pointers to big picture/long term solutions. As a
pilot project, PROMUEBA could meet only a small part of the demand for barrio
improvement directly, but the operation helped lay the foundation for an overall vision of
the problem of shelter and urban services for the poor in Venezuela, a vision shared by
GOV and the Bank during the current period of political transition in the country. In part,
this vision foresees the engagement of new actors-notably the private sector and
NGOs-in barrio upgrading and housing improvement finance, such as have been
incorporated in the Caracas Slum Upgrading Project. Venezuelan authorities are at
present seeking ways, with the assistance of the Bank, to replicate the Caracas effort at



I1
the national level. Thus a pilot project-such as PROMUEBA-consolidated by a
follow-on operation and an active sector dialogue can help establish the basis for long-
term solutions to large-scale sector problems beyond the remit of any single operation.



12
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives                   Substantial         Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                                      X                 ED
Sector Policies                                     X                  I             LI                L
Financial objectives                                  I               X                I               L
Institutional Development                           X                 mI                              L
Physical objectives                                 X                L                E               L
Poverty reduction                                   W                                L xm
Gender issues                                                         W xm                             LI
Other social objectives                            L  ]                                                Lii
Environmental objectives                            W                                 mI x
Public sector management                            X                 EX                                LI
Private sector development                          nK L                              o                 X
B. Project sustainability                         Likely           Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank performance                         Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                      X                 I x
Preparation assistance                             E                 L               L
Appraisal                                           mI                 x
Supervision                                        E                 L               L
D. Bcrrower performance                     Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                         m                 XI
Implementation                                      L                 X              L
Covenant compliance                                   I              L I
Operation (if applicable)                           L                L               L
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                    Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
LI           W               LI                LI-x-



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan                       Purpose                            | Amount       Year of       Status
(US$m)       Approval
Preceding Operations                                                                                           l
Social Development Project,   To assist the GOV in developing a  $85M         1990         Completed (ICR
Loan 3270A                 social sector strategy to redirect its                          under preparation).
social expenditures into targeted &
efficient programs to (I) improve
living conditions of the large & poor
segments of the population, (2) replace
indirect subsidies with targeted social
programs, (30 promote institutional
development by improving the
planning & management capacity of
the Ministry of Health & Education
Subsequent Operations
Caracas Slum Upgrading     The project will (i ) undertake a    $60.7M        1998          Ongoing
Project. Loan 40174        program of integrated infrastructure
improvements in the low-income
barrios of the Metropolitan Area of
Caracas. The project will be executed
over a five year period, and will
benefit directly approximately 180,000
people in the low-income sectors of
Petare Norte in the municipality of
Sucre and La Vega in the municipality
of Libertador.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned                Actual Date/ or Duration    Planned: Actual
difference
Identification (Initial Executive   1989                   1989                       0
project summary)                                                                                               l
Preparation                   1991                         1991                       0
Appraisal                     December 1991               Dec. 91-Feb. 92             2 months
Negotiations                  May 1992                    May 1992                    0
Board Presentation           June 1992                    June 23, 1992
Loan Signing                  September 1992              March 17, 1993              6 months
Loan Effectiveness            June 1993                   December 10, 1993           6 months
Loan Closing                  December 31, 1997           December 31, 1998           12 months
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND
ACTUAL (US$ Million)
FY94      FY95       FY96       FY97       FY98       FY99
Appraisal estimate                          11.2       19.7       28.2      35.8       39.6       40.0
Actual                                      2.5        3.2        7.0        13.2      35.1       38.5
Actual as % of estimate                    22.3%      16.2%      24.8%      37.0%      88.6%      96%    l
Date of final disbursement: May 18, 1999.



14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION
A. Indicators of Provision and Improvement of Basic Infrastructure
and Services through Project
Indicator                                        1994-1998 total
Barrios physically improved (number)                                                   104
Barrio households directly benefiting from improvements (number)                      66,031
Streets paved (linear meters)                                                        147,200
Sidewalks (linear meters)                                                            240,400
Water supply (linear meters)                                                         108,350
Garbage trucks                                                                          50
Note:
B. Indicators of Improved Living Conditions in Low-Income Barrios
Indicator                                Before project  After project
1991              1998
(monitoring data was not collected to measure the impact of the project
upon the living conditions of beneficiary population)
Notes:
C. Indicators of Planning, Administrative and Executive Capacity of Municipalities
Indicator                                Before project  After project
1991              1998
Municipalities participating in PROMUEBA technical assistance (number)      0                235
Municipalities participating in PROMUEBA infrastructure program (no.)       0                 45
Competitive bidding by municipalities (number of cases)                     0                221
Total municipal revenue - all muns (US$ million)                           19.0              47.3
Total municipal tax revenue - all muns (US$ million)                       7.5               18.4
Municipal revenue per capita - all muns (US$)                              25.3              53.5
Municipal tax revenue share of total revenue - all muns (%)               39.5%             38.9%
Note:



15
D. Indicators of Administrative and Technical Capacity of FUNDACOMUN
Indicator                            Before project       After project
1991                1998
FUNDACOMUN staff (number)                                          900                990(*)
FUNDACOMUN managers (number)                                       35                 34(*)
FUJNDACOMUJN total budget (current + capital in Bs. million)       413                45,424
FUNDACOMUN total budget (current + capital in US$ million)         7.3                 82.8
FUNDACOMUN offices (number)                                        24                   24
International competitive bidding processes (number of cases)       0                   62
Municipal training courses contracted (number)                     na                 80(#)
Municipal trainees (number)                                        na                1,800(#)
Notes:
(*) includes in-house consultants
(#) annual average during 1995-96
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study                  Purpose                 Status                   Impact
1. Municipal       To design a system for the    Partially       This study led to the establishment of
Information System   permanent updating and      completed        a computer network linking
processing of municipal                       FUNDACOMUN's head office with
information and allow                        its regional branches, although
FUJNDACOMUN resume its                        municipal information flow was not
encuestas municipales.                        as broad as originally conceived.
2. Municipal       To improve the database of     Completed       As a result of this work, an extensive
Finance            Venezuela's municipal finance                  data base-especially on municipal
and develop a typology to                     finance-is available to
classify municipalities                       FUNDACOMUN and other users
and researchers in Venezuela.
3. Third National  To provide timely and reliable    Completed    Although this was not innovative, in
Inventory of Barrios  information on the specific                the sense that it followed on previous
features of barrios throughout                good work done by
Venezuela, and improve the                    FUNDACOMUN, it did ensure the
information base for policy                   continuation and consolidation of an
making and program design.                    important effort.
4. Regularization of  To identify the administrati,ve,    Completed  Study completed as planned.
Land Tenure        legal and financial constraints on
the development of the land
market in barrios and to
recommend strategies to
overcome them.
5. Evaluation of   To assess the social benefits and  Not done    The lack of implementation of this
Project's Poverty  costs of the project to barrio                study can be seen as part of the
Impact             residents, focusing upon social                project's failure to fully monitor
changes-such as population                   implementation. Follow-up studies
mobility-that could result from               are currently in the planning phase.
physical improvements.



16
TABLE 7A PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate            Amended                    Actual
(US$m.)                   (US$)                   (US$m.)
Item                         Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs            Costs   Costs            Costs   Costs
A. Infrastructure and Solid
Waste
A.l Infrastructure           28.4    17.1    45.5    28.9    11.9    40.8    28.5    11.8    40.3
A.2 Solid Waste               0.5     4.2      4.7     2.6     4.6      7.2     0.6      4.5     5.1
Sub-total:   28.8    21.3    50.2    31.5    16.5    48.0    29.1    16.3    45.4
B. Institutional Development
B.l Municipal Training and   9.7     4.2     13.9    6.0    21.8    27.8    5.9    21.2    27.1
Technical Assistance Program.
B.2 FUNDACOMUN                3.1     1.0     4.1      8.0     1.4      9.4     7.8      1.4     9.2
Strengthening Program                                                                                 l
B. 3 Studies                  0.6     0.2     0.8       -      0.3      0.3      -       0.3     0.3
Sub-total:   13.4    5.4    18.8    14.0    23.6    37.5    13.7    22.9    36.6
TOTAL BASE COSTS             42.2    26.8    69.0
Physical Contingencies     4.2      2.7     6.9
Price Contingencies        5.9      3.7     9.6                    _____
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    52.3    33.2    85.5    45.5    40.1    85.5    42.8    39.2    82.
TABLE 7B PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate              Amended                    Actual
(US$m.)                   (US$m.)                   (US$m.)
Source                    Infrastr  Instituti   Total  Infrastr  Instituti   Total   Infrastr  Instituti  Total
ucture    onal            ucture   onal             ucture    onal
Solid   Develo            Solid   Develo            Solid   Develo
Waste   pment             Waste   pment             Waste   pment
World Bank                 16.9    23.1    40.0    16.5    23.5        40.0    lS.1    22.6    38.5
Government of Venezuela    37.4     0.0      37.4    23.4    14.0    37.4       22.2    14.0    36.2
Municipal Governments       8.1     0.0      8.1      8.1      -       8.1                       7.3
Total             62.4    23.1    85.5    48.0    37.5        85.5     45Al  36.6    82.
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Indicators
Low-income barrio improvement                 Appraisal Estimate               Actual Estimate
Internal Economic Rate of Return (%)                21.8%                          18.9%
Note: Actual estimate of internal rate of return is based upon actual project costs less taxes and an annual
stream of benefits derived from the capitalization of land value increase over a period of 15 years, with
annual interest of 12%. The same evaluation methodology was used at implementation completion as at
project appraisal.



17
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenan  Present   Description of Covenant              Comments
t type    Status                                                               i
Loan        3.01 (b)  3         C         The borrower to make available     Budgetary allocations ok,
Agreement                                 proceeds of the Loan to            but actual disbursements
FUNDACOMUN, on a timely basis, as  from special account
budgetary allocations.             suffered bureaucratic
delays.
3.02     5         C         Not later than three months after   Plan of action for: (a) the
(c,d,e)                       completion date of each study,     study on Regularization of
borrower to furnish programs or plans   Land Tenure in Barrios
of action (additional to those submitted  submitted 06/06/94; (b)
by FUNDACOMUN). Implement          other studies, still pending
plans of Action according to a time  their completion.
table satisfactory to the Bank.
4.01     1         NC         Borrower to have project records,  Delays in closing accounts
(a,b)                         accounts and financial statements,  and preparing audits
including special account, audited by    meant that audit reports
independent auditors acceptable to  were submitted at least
Bank.                             five months late for every
I_________                                                                    FY during implementation
6.01 (a)  5        C          Condition of Effectiveness:        Done
FUNDACOMUN entered into
Fiduciary Agreement
6.01 (b)  5        C          Condition of Effectiveness:        Eventually,
FUNDACOMUN has entered into        FUNDACOMUN entered
Participation Agreements and Sub-  into such agreements with
project Agreements with at least 3  at least 221 municipalities.
Municipalities. Fiduciary entered into
Sub-loan Agreements with such
Municipalities.                                           I
6.01 (c)  5        C          Condition of Effectiveness:        Done, with new staffing
FUNDACOMUN has established         from 1994 onwards.
Project Management Unit (PMU).
6.01 (d)  5        C          Condition of Effectiveness:        Done, and later revised.
FUNDACOMUN has adopted
Operational manuals satisfactory to the
Bank
6.01 (e)  5        C          Condition of Effectiveness:        Done.
FUNDACOMUN has furnished to the
Bank a proposed first year investment
program                                                    l
6.02 (a)  5        C          Legal opinions confirming that: 1)  Done.
Project Agreement has been duly
ratified by FUNDACOMUN; 2)
Fiduciary Agreement has been duly
ratified by FUNDACOMUN; 3)
Agreements in Section 6.01 (above)
have been duly ratified by
FUNDACOMUN; 4) Operational
Manual has been validly issued by
FUNDACOMUN.                                                l
Project     2.06 (a)  9         C         Project Semi-annual progress reports    Done.
Agreement                                 (First one due Aug. 31, 1993)                              l
2.06 (b)  5        C          Annual Investment Program for      Done
upcoming year
2.07 (a)  9        CP         FUNDACOMUN to hold annual          Partial compliance.
reviews I) evaluation of projects in  Progress reports were
execution and achievement of Project   submitted, but they did not
objectives; 2) discuss proposed    evaluate sub-projects in
investment program, 3) any changes in  relation to PROMUEBA
project implementation.            objectives.



18
Agreement  Section   Covenan  Present   Description of Covenant                Comments
i______  ttype      Status
2.07 (b)  9        C          Mid-Term review                     Done
2.08     9          C         Submit study on Municipal Finance   Completed.
(a.i)                         (Part C.2 of L.A.)
2.08     9         C          Submit study on Regularization of   Completed.
(a.ii)                        Land Tenure (Part C.4 of L.A.)                              l
2.08     9         NC         Submit study on Evaluation of       Not completed.
(a.iii)                       Project's Poverty Impact (Part C.5 of
I                     L.A.)
2.08     9         CP         Submit studies on Municipal         Partially completed
(a.iv)                        Information System and on Third
National Inventory of Barrios (Parts
C. I and C.3 of L.A., respectively)
2.09 (c)  5         C         FUNDACOMUN to furnish plans of    Done with respect to
actions in respect to each study above   studies completed.
(section 2.08 (a.i-iv)) three months
after the completion date.
2.09     5         C          FUNDACOMUN to operate and           Done.
maintain an organizational structure,
functions and staff (including the
PMU) satisfactory to the Bank.
2.10     9         CP         Employ a consultant to assist       Partial compliance.
FUNDACOMUN in design of the        Consultant employed, but
monitoring and evaluation system, and   monitoring system not put
l________  training of the staff.             into place.
3.01     1         NC         FUNDACOMUN to have its accounts   Delays in closing accounts
(a,b)                         and financial statements audited    and preparing audits
meant that audit reports
were submitted at least
five months late for every
FY during implementation
3.02     1         NC         FUNDACOMUN to submit annual         Delays in closing accounts
reports by independent auditors,   and preparing audits
including an evaluation of compliance   meant that audit reports
by FUNDACOMUN, the Fiduciary,      were submitted at least
and each eligible municipality and  five months late for every
their obligations.                 FY during implementation
Covenant type:
1.    Accounts/Audit
2.    Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3.    Flow and utilization of Project funds
4.    Counterpart funds
5.    Management aspects
6.    Environmental aspects
7.    Involuntary resettlement
8.    Indigenous peoples
9.    Monitoring, reviewing and reporting
10.   Implementation
11.   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12.   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13.   Other
Present Status
C.    complied with
CD. complied with after delay
CP.   complied with partially
NC.  not complied with



19
TABLE 11 COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
(Supervision missions did not report any cases of non-compliance)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual
Stage of project cycle                                  Weeks                     US$(thousands)
Through Appraisal                                      128.3                          261.8
Appraisal through Board Presentation                               8.3                           20.8
Supervision                                        162.5                          311.2
Completion                                          4.0                            18.0
TOTAL                                            303.1                          611.8
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of     Month      Number    Days    Specialized           Performance rating:               Types of problems
Project      Year         of         in       staff skills    Implement-   Development
Cycle                  persons    field   representedl/   ation status    objectives
Through      Sept/Oct   4            27       UrbM
appraisal     1989
Jan/Feb    3            10      UrbM,
l _________   1990
May        3            15      UrbM
1990
Mar        3            11      UrbM, Econ,
1991                            EngS
Sept/Oct   3           10       UrbM, Econ.
1991                            EngS
Appraisal    Dec         4           15       UrbM, Econ,
through       1991                            EngS, Law
Board
approval
Feb        3            10      UrbM, Fin
l _________    1992                           Law
Supervision   June       1           2        UrbM            HS            S              Inadequate counterpart funding may
1994                                                                         cause delays to loan disbursements.
Oct 1994   3           9        UrbD, Env,      HS            S              No major problems. FUNDACOMURN
Sect                                        has been successfully restructured, all
three components are making
progress, with demand by 60
municipalities for infrastructure
particularly strong, exceeding funds
available.
Apr        4           7        UrbD(2), Inst,   U            S              FUNDACOMUN has been
1995                            Sect                                         restructuring and downsizing,
negatively impacting project
implementation. Municipal demand
for infrastructure component strong,
but constrained by land tenure
problems and lack of municipal
creditworthiness. Delayed access to
Bank funds through Venezuelan
_                                                      bureaucracy.
Oct/Nov   5             10      UrbD, Inst,     U             S              Little progress had been made in



20
Performance rating:            Types of problems
95                           Econ, Cons,                               achieving the objective of developing
Sect                                     and improving the planning,
administrative and executive
capacities in support of the GOV's
decentralization program.
The objective of strengthening the
administrative and technical capacity
of FUNDACOMUN to improve its
ability to assist municipalities is
slowly being attained through much
effort.
Apr       1          7       Oper                                      No major problems reported.
1996                                                                                                    l
Sept      7           12     UrbD (2),      S            S             Large turnover of city mayors
1996                         specialization                           following December 1995 election
of other five                            undermined demand. TA
not reported                             implementation is slow because it is
being provided directly by
FUNDACOMUN.
Apr       3          4       UrbD (2),      S            S             No major problems reported. An
1997                         Cons                                      extension of the Project closing date is
anticipated to fully disburse the loan
and meet the project's development
objectives. The smooth flow of funds
is the only key factor of the Central
Govemment negatively impacting
l___________    _____________  project implementation.
July/Aug  6           10      UrbD (2),     S            S             No major problems reported.
1997                         Soc, Reset,                               Recommendation to extend the project
Land                                     closing date to be made by Oct. 1997.
Project funds to be used to finance
emergency works related to the Sucre
l_________                earthquake.
Dec       4          5        UrbD (2), Sec   S          S             Delay by FUNDACOMUN in
1997                                                                   submitting project audit statements in
a timely manner.
May       2           14     EngM, Sec      S            S             Infrastructure works may be delayed
1998                                                                   because of the beginning of the rainy
season, forthcoming elections, and
slow disbursements from the Special
Account.
Implementa  Jan 1999   2          6       Econ, UrbD     S            S             No major problems reported.
tion                                                                                Satisfactory completion of
Completion                                                                          implementation.
Mission.
I/ Key to mission staff specialization:
Cons          Consultant (specialization not reported)
Econ.         Urban economist
EngS          Sanitary engineer
EngM          Municipal engineer
Env           Environmental specialist
Fin           Financial analyst
Inst          Institutional development specialist
Land          Land tenure specialist
Law           Lawyer
Reset         Resettlement specialist
Sect          Sectoral specialist
Soc           Social assessment specialist
UrbM.         Urban management specialist
UrbD          Urban development specialist



21
APPENDIX A
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
AIDE MEMOIRE
February 5, 1999
During the period February 1-5, 1999, a World Bank mission consisting of Roy Gilbert
and Dean Cira visited Venezuela to undertake implementation completion tasks jointly with the
PROMUEBA project team. These tasks included: (i) the collection of data necessary for project
evaluation purposes; (ii) discussions with the PROMUEBA team about project evaluation
methodologies and preliminary findings; and (iii) field visits to project sites to learn from final
beneficiaries and others about project results. The mission met with members of the
PROMUEBA project team in FUNDACOMUN in Caracas and in field offices, staff of the World
Bank resident mission in Caracas, and officials of states and municipalities that benefited through
the project. The mission appreciated the courtesies and interested attention of all parties
contacted, in particular FUNDACOMUN President Mayita Acosta for the time spent directly
participating in the mission's work and also the State Governor ofTachira and the city mayors of
San Cristobal, Capacho, Simon Rodriguez, Freites and Carvajal for sharing their rich
PROMUEBA experiences.
This Aide Memoire presents the preliminary conclusions and findings of the mission with
respect to the performance of the PROMUEBA project at the moment of implementation
completion. These conclusions and findings are subject to confirmation by Bank management in
Washington D.C.
The PROMUEBA team presented the mission with a draft of the borrower ICR
pertaining to the project. The mission's review concludes that this document accurately and
satisfactorily reports project performance from the point of view of the borrower and that the
report fulfils borrower requirements under agreements with the Bank pertaining to
implementation completion reporting. Furthermore, the high quality of the borrower ICR
recommends its inclusion within the final Bank report on this project.
Both the mission and the PROMUEBA team in Venezuela agree that the project
performed satisfactorily with respect to fulfilling its main objective of improving the living
conditions in low-income barrios through the provision and improvement of basic urban
infrastructure services. This achievement is particularly notable, given the difficult
implementation context which included: (i) Macroeconomic instability; (ii) rapid and
unpredictable political changes at both the national and local levels; and (iii) a very weak
performance of the portfolio of Bank financed projects as a whole. The PROMUEBA
management and team are to be congratulated for this achievement.
Much of the mission's work focused upon formulating and testing hypotheses-jointly
with the PROMUEBA team-to help explain more precisely how the project achievement was
made. Among the reasons for success that were identified were:
* FUNDACOMUN's ability to build up a strong cash position that enabled the agency to
provide bridge financing to cover typically delayed project disbursements throughout project
implementation. The agency's strong cash flow allowed timely payment of contractors,
suppliers and consultants, thereby ensuring uninterrupted project implementation.



22
* FUNDACOMUN management's skill in harnessing political support for the project among
key players, notably the Congress, the national budget committee, the supervising Ministry of
the Family, state governors and municipal mayors.
* Stability and continuity among FUNDACOMUN management and the PROMUEBA team
since 1994.
* Venezuela's second wave of elected mayors (taking office in 1995) were more active
PROMUEBA clients. They were more development minded than their predecessors (who
took office for the first time in 1989).
Despite overall project success, weaker aspects of project performance included:
* Audits suffered considerable delays throughout project implementation. It was agreed that
timely and accurate audits are essential for a fair reporting of project outcomes and that
planning for such audits needs to begin during the financial year under review.
* Lack of a system for monitoring project inputs and outputs during implementation and
beyond, as planned at appraisal. FUNDACOMUN nevertheless has considerable data on
municipal finances and project costs for instance, and these data need to be made more easily
accessible for the purpose of project evaluation.
Caracas, February 5, 1999
For FUNDACOMUN:               For the World Bank:
.............................   ........................................... ....I......................... .............................. .............
Mayita Acosta                 Roy Gilbert                            Dean A. Cira
President                     Consultant                             Consultant



23
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(Unofficial translation by Roy Gilbert)
A. BACKGROUND
The origin of the project dates from 1989, when the (Venezuelan) Government defined a Plan to
tackle poverty as part of its program of macro-economic adjustment. This Plan included six
programs, one of which was the Barrios Improvement Program, itself made up of three sub-
programs. One of these sub-programs, called the Improvement of Basic Infrastructure in Barrios,
was geared to providing infrastructure services. The responsibility for implementing this sub-
program was assigned to FUNDACOMUN, which coordinated with other public sector agencies
so that its objectives were achieved.
The design of the PROMUEBA project incorporated service decentralization as a fundamental
guide to implementation, to the extent that municipalities should acted as "co-executing"
agencies. However, the institutional weakness of local administration and their dependency upon
revenue sharing and Central Government transfers just to meet their legal responsibilities,
represented an important constraint upon their development. Aiming to overcome these
deficiencies and perform better, the PROMUEBA project included an institutional strengthening
component to improve management capacity at the local level.
IBRD Loan 3495-VE, to finance PROMUEBA, was approved by the World Bank's Board of
Directors in June 1992. The Loan Agreement was signed in Washington D.C. on March 17, 1993,
with FUNDACOMUN present. Project Closing Date was foreseen to be at the end of 1998, but
the final closing was postponed until December 1998.
B. THE PROJECT, OBJECTIVES AND IMPLEMENTATION
B.I OBJECTIVES:
a) Improve urban infrastructure services in barrios that participated in the Project by providing
and improving basic urban services. [Translators note: This is somewhat different from the
project objective in the SAR which was: "Improve living conditions in low income barrios
through the provision and improvement of basic infrastructure services " (SAR: para 3. 1 (a))]
b) Develop the planning and executive capacities of the municipalities-in support of the
Venezuelan government's decentralization policy-by making municipalities responsible for
subproject execution and introducing fundamental municipal management concepts such as
project evaluation and supervision, fiscal responsibility, cost recovery and maintenance.
[Translator's note: This text is almost identical to that of SAR butfor the omission of "project
monitoring" as a concept of municipal management to introduce.]
[Translator's note. Page 3/20 of the original text is missing]



24
Component                         Amount Committed (US$m.)
Infrastructure                                             13.70
Garbage collection trucks                                  3.20
Institutional development                                  23.10
TOTAL                                      40.00
It should be emphasized that the resources assigned to the Project by source were allocated as
follows: Domestic (Government of Venezuela) US$37.4 million; External US$40.0 (World Bank)
and Municipal, making a total of US$85.5 million.
B.3 PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION
During the 1990-92 period, progress was made in defining the (project) objectives, components,
financing and various other elements that made up PROMUEBA. This activity included the
coordination of the various governmental organisms involved with the World Bank, whose own
representatives undertook various missions to prepare the Project.
Also at this time, PROMUEBA's Project Management Unit (PMU) was created, various
instruments of project implementation were elaborated, including the Project Operations Manual
(POM) and some publicity fliers aimed at guiding municipalities through the various stages of
their participation in PROMUEBA.
The PMU needed the (administrative) structure of FUJNDACOMUN to undertake its activities.
Organizational units within FUNDACOMUN's formal structure provided basic support in
directly helping municipalities especially in connection with the Infrastructure component, but
also with the institutional strengthening component.
The implementation of PROMUEBA also required the participation of different agencies such as:
1. The Government of Venezuela as borrower and co-financier of the Project.
2. The World Bank as co-financier of the Project.
3. The Central Bank of Venezuela, which opened and maintained the Special Account from
which project disbursements from the World Bank were made.
4. Participating municipalities as co-executing agencies of the Project.
5. Fiduciary: in other words, the Central Bank with which FUNDACOMLUN made a fiduciary
agreement.
6. Contractors, as firms that had won contracts bid by the Project for the execution of basic
infrastructure works.
7. Consultants as individuals or private firms contracted to help with the institutional
strengthening of municipalities as well as FUNDACOMUN itself.
B.3.1 COMPONENTOFINFRASTRUCTUREANDSOLID WASTEEQUIPMENT
The start-up of this component was in December 1993, with World Bank financing budgeted
initially at US$13.7 million, and later modified to US$11.7 million. The component focused
principally upon improving basic services in low-income barrios, through the financing the
construction and rehabilitation of services such as water supply networks, sewerage, electricity,



25
paving and drainage, as well as equipment needed for solid waste collection. The implementation
of the projects, including the engineering designs and supervision of works was the sole
responsibility of participating municipalities, who were able to call up private contractors to
provide these services.
For the construction of basic infrastructure works, PROMUEBA's participating municipalities
received the equivalent of 60% of the cost of these works (and the acquisition of solid waste
equipment) from the Central Government via FUNDACOMUN. The remaining 40% was covered
in the following manner: 27% through a sub-loan awarded by FUNDACOMUN with World Bank
resources and 13% through the municipalities' own contributions.
The situation of PROMUEBA's infrastructure works from 1993 onwards included the
participation of 2 States, 2 Municipalities and 5 Barrios in water supply, sewerage, drainage,
paving and electricity works involving an investment of 125,179, 695.58 Bolivares [translators
note: = US$1.4 million approx.] as can be seen in the annex table. (This table) also shows the
progressive increase in the implementation of works in the following years, as policies and
strategies conducive to growing disbursements were incorporated in different areas of work,
among which we highlight:
* HUMAN RESOURCES
A group of professionals with the right profile to assure the satisfactory development of the
Project was incorporated into FUNDACOMUN's headquarters and its regional offices.
* INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Computer equipment, networks for data transfer and (software) programs were provided and they
allowed for the establishment of a control system, a procedure for transferring correspondence
and data at the national level.
* AREA OF MARKETING
A program for promoting PROUMEBA was set up at all levels for municipalities, and executed
by (PROMEUBA) managers at the state level. The objective of this program was to disseminate
PROMUEBA in order to incorporate more municipalities into the Project.
* SUPPORT TO MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATIONS IN REVIEWING PROJECTS
Given the high rate of rejection of sub-projects that did not meet the guideline laid out for project
preparation, (PROMUEBA's) infrastructure management began to provide technical assistance
(to municipalities) in project preparation in order to reduce the rejection rate.
* STAFF TRAINING IN PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING
Before the beginning of works, introductory training was provided to municipal engineering staff
involved in the Project in procurement and contracting in accordance with (PROMUEBA's)
project operations manual.
* EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT OPERATIONS MANUAL
The POM was disseminated in diskette form to make it more useful, chapter by chapter. Even so,
the POM was evaluated in order to determine the whether any changes might be needed for the
Project to work better. Among the changes were, modifications in the form of payments, and
allowing works to be built in land whose ownership was national, state or municipal.
The modification of PROMUEBA's POM allowed changes in the procedures for making



26
payments to municipal administrations, eliminating the minimum population criterion (50,000
inhabitants) and accepting national (govemment) land ownership in additional to the municipal
ownership previously allowed. These changes contributed to speeding up the rhythm of project
execution and benefited a larger number of municipalities. See: Borrower Annex 2.
* SOLID WASTE EQUIPMENT
Solid waste collection is considered an important aspect of improving the sanitary and
environmental conditions in the barrios. Initially, US$3.2 million was committed for the
purchase of trucks, an amount that was increased to US$5.0 million to buy 50 compactor trucks
through a competitive bidding process. These were assigned to 46 municipalities in 19 states,
benefiting 2,250 families in each truck collection cycle, at a total investment of US$4.57 million.
See Borrower Annex 3.
B.3.2 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
B.3.2.1 Technical Assistance and Municipal Training Program
In the month of September 1994, the Technical Assistance Department of PROMUEBA was
created, as a result of the restructuring of the PMU that allowed for (the management of) project
components to be separated, according to the Staff Appraisal Report. Until this time, training and
technical assistance components foreseen under PROMUEBA had not been implemented, with
the exception of some specific advice given on urban planning to three municipalities. The
training and technical assistance component lacked a defined implementation strategy, and
achieved minimal levels of physical and financial execution. To overcome this situation, the
following steps were taken:
1 . Incorporation of new areas of advice, based on demand arising from the municipalities
2. Giving a functional character and a precise scope to the technical assistance, through projects
and products that were useful and meaningful for municipal management.
3. Emphasizing the quality of the advice given, ensuring the participation of both local and
international companies and professionals, with high technical and logistical capabilities.
4. Achieving a greater impact and presence of the (technical assistance) program on a national
scale, providing technical assistance that was timely and suited to the priority requirements
of local strengthening.
With respect to the implementation of the component, there were two stages. The first stage
which began the consolidation of a (management) unit (within FUNDACOMUN) that was
qualified to take on the implementation of the training and technical assistance component of
PROMUEBA. The second stage was one in which the program was executed on a national scale,
through the mass implementation of projects.
Stage I
The overall approach toward implementation was established from the five areas initially defined
in the Staff Appraisal Report: namely, Urban Planning; Cadastre; Solid Waste Management;
Municipal Finances and Municipal Legislation. Thus, FUNDACOMUN's regional divisions
were reinforced with consultants specialized in each area and within the (headquarters')
Technical Assistance Division itself, a team of consultants was set up to supervise the program
that had been set up.
By the end of 1995, 56 municipalities had been served by a team of area supervisors in



27
(FUNDACOMUN) head office, with the support of consultant experts assigned to divisions in
the states, programmed by municipalities and areas of technical assistance previously agreed. In
the year 1995, 80 training courses-exceeding the target of 50-were given on Municipal
Legislation, Urban Planning, Urban Cadastres, Public Services, Municipal Finances and
Municipal Management, which counted upon the participation of 1,675 staff of different
municipalities throughout the country. During the 1995-96 period, 160 courses were given, in
which 3,655 municipal staff from throughout the whole country.
In spite of the achievements of this stage, PROMUEBA's Training and Technical Assistance
component continued to show low levels of financial execution. The full attention conceived
under this component was not fully achieved in some states that did not constitute advisory
teams in all areas, providing advice only on specific topics. Poor definition of the objectives and
scope of the advice in each area, also constituted a constraint with respect to the technical
assistance provided during this stage.
Stage 2
Later on, a new approach was tried toward the implementation of the component. This was the
result of a review of successful experiences and new demands, as well as a process of negotiation
with the World Bank. With the new approach, local and international consulting firms were hired
and qualified according to the World Bank's selection criteria. Thus began assistance to
municipalities on a mass scale.
With the help of experts in each area of technical assistance, projects and more precisely focused
products were defined and selected in accordance with pre-established criteria and prior
negotiations, which responded as much to emerging local demand as to national policy
guidelines. In addition, new areas of technical assistance were incorporated, such as:
Formulation of Municipal Projects, Municipal Organization, Local Planning and Management,
Social Development and Automation of Municipal Budgeting Processes. The (formerly specific)
area of Municipal Legislation was incorporated as a basic component within each of the projects
considered, merging it with the rest of the thematic areas.
The election for (state) governors and mayor in December 1995 gave rise to a new scenario, in
which implementation plans by state were proposed, in response to requests by governors-elect.
Thus, in 1996 six (6) state plans were defined for the following: Miranda, Cojedes, Yaracay,
Alra, Monagas and Portuguesa involving the execution of 277 technical assistance projects. In a
parallel fashion, the installation of automated budgeting systems was programmed for 65
municipalities.
To execute the projects, a selection process of consulting firms benefited from offers by more
than 60 local and international firms. From these, 21 firms were chosen, 4 foreign and 17
Venezuelan, fulfilling World Bank requirements for this kind of process. In this way (the firms)
executed 277 technical assistance projects, of which 265 were successfully completed, servicing
67 municipalities. One should add that during 1996, 65 licenses for automating the budget were
awarded in that many municipalities.
In 1997 a national plan made up of 270 technical assistance projects was programmed in order to
meet the demand for advice coming from 200 municipalities in 17 states across the country.
Another process of selecting consulting firms was undertaken, in which more than 70 firms



28
participated. 24 local firms and 3 foreign ones were selected. Most of the projects began in mid
September 1997 and were completed in June 1998. In addition, 298 licenses for automated
budgeting systems were acquired. The target foreseen for March 1999 is that all municipalities in
the country will have automated budgeting systems.
Altogether, 95% of municipal technical assistance projects were completed on time. The
projects have been well received, given that these projects rely upon the political will of the
authorities and the interest of the receiving municipalities. During the rest of 1998 follow-up
activities were pursued to consolidate project implementation.
The implementation method used allowed the adoption of a program on a national scale and
achieved the participation of public and private institutions with a high technical caliber and
recognized prestige, both local and foreign, improving the response capacity in this area.
B. 3.2.3 Institutional Strengthening Program
As agreed with the World Bank, (PROMUEBA's) Institutional Strengthening Program began by
building up FUNDACOMUN to execute PROMUEBA and make progress in modernizing the
institution to better fulfil its function as municipal and community development agency in
Venezuela.
The execution of PROMUEBA created an in-house capability within FUNDACOMUN that has
contributed to the agency's position as lead institution in the country in municipal technical
assistance activities. Equally, it led to a diverse supply-managed through precisely designed
projects-to meet the demands for institutional strengthening in municipalities throughout the
country, in different areas of operation. This supply was adapted to the particular development
conditions of the municipalities, with diverse situations with respect to population, size of
populated settlements, economic base etc.
During the 1996-97 period, progress was made in modernizing FUNDACOMUN's technology
platform through the acquisition of software, hardware, furniture, vehicles, reproduction and
telecom equipment, as well as other items.
C) ACTUAL INVESTMENT
The total amount of investment in the Project reached US$84.5 million, financed from the
following sources: a) IBRD US$40.0 million; b) Government of Venezuela US$37.4 million; and
c) Municipal governments US$7.1 million. In order to achieve greater project implementation
effectiveness, it should be emphasized, measures were taken to reformulate the objectives
originally laid out to execute the Municipal Technical Assistance and Infrastructure components.
These measures allowed investments of US$25.8 million in the first component and US$1 1.9
million in infrastructure. Similarly, (Project disbursement) category 2 (translator's note: this
category refers to Goods under Part One (Investment projects by eligible municipalities) of the
Project) under which solid waste collection trucks were purchased, had a larger (than expected)
investment of US$4.6 million.
Strategies implemented by FUNDACOMUN for the accelerated implementation of the Project,
led to changes in the original resource allocations across the above mentioned categories and



29
components. Thus can be seen in Table 4 the original allocation, how it was modified during
implementation, and the final amounts actually invested in each category and component.
D. PROCUREMENT
Procurement was undertaken following Bank procedures established in the legal agreements,
outlined in section 4 of (the Bank's booklet) hiring consulting services and section I of (the
Bank's booklet) Procurement of Goods and Works. On the basis of these, contracting
arrangements, total amounts by component and procedures to follow were established in
accordance with the objectives of Loan 3495-VE.
Below are listed the most relevant procurement experiences during project implementation:
* Computer equipment was purchased through international competitive bidding (ICB)
* 50 compacting solid waste trucks were purchased from the Mitsubishi International
Corporation through ICB.
* 265 software licenses for the automated municipal budget formulation module (SIFOP) and
municipal budget control module (SICEP) through direct purchase (translator's note.=
international shopping?) as a special exception from M & B Solutions.
* The components were executed fully in accordance with the plan established in the Staff
Appraisal Report.
* All works and goods contracts-were developed within normal parameters and were consistent
with applicable regulations.
E) ACHIEVEMENTS
The implementation of PROMUEBA gave FUNDACOMUN and municipal governments the
opportunity to incorporate the culture of project management. At the same time as this allowed
them to achieve the necessary effectiveness for implementing the Project, it also improved the
institutional management of FUNDACOMUN.
The development of operations to implement the project components achieved the following the
results:
E.1 In the area of infrastructure, with an investment of US$43.1 million, 221 projects have been
executed to date: (i) construction of 108.4 km of water distribution lines; (ii) 273.5 km of
sewerage networks; (iii) 2 oxidation sewage treatment plants, pumping plants and one storage
tank; (iv) 147.2 km of paving; (v) 240.4 km of surface drainage; and (vi) 7.5 km of electricity
networks. Through these investments, the Project improved the living conditions of 66,103
families settled in 104 barrios in a situation of critical poverty in 45 municipalities in 18 states
throughout the country. In addition and thanks to the Project, 46 municipalities acquired
compacting solid waste trucks to improve their garbage collection service (see: Table E. 1)
E.2 With the implementation of the US$25.8 million Municipal Training and Technical
Assistance component, there was progress on two fronts: (i) strengthening the management
capacity of 235 municipal governments through the execution of 737 technical assistance sub-
projects in the areas of Finance, Cadastre, Urban Planning, Social Development, Project
Formulation, Environmental Sanitation and Planning of Local Administration; and (ii)



30
strengthening the institutional capacity of FUNDACOMUN to manage PROMUEBA efficiently
and help improve the level of technical assistance provided to municipalities. Institutional
strengthening activities focused upon categories that were strategic for PROMUEBA's
development. They were founded upon organization, institutional, administrative, technical and
operational bases essential for an improved management performance by FUNDACOMUN (see:
Borrower Annex E.2).
E.3 During 1996-97, the institutional strengthening program made significant implementation
progress, investing US$9.2 million, which included US$1.4 million of the World Bank and
US$7.8 local counterpart. This program focused mainly upon modernizing FUNDACOMUN's
technology platform through acquiring computer equipment, including software, furniture,
vehicles and copying and telecommunications equipment. Through the institutional strengthening
program 33 courses were held to train 661 employees, and 13 photocopy machines for each of
FUNDACOMUN's divisions, 10 fax machines, a central telephone exchange and 13 vehicles
were acquired. The design of the (computer) network was based upon the "client/server
philosophy" that allowed rapid and flexible exchange of information among all divisions of
FUNDACOMUN. It incorporated different elements such as servers, computers, and printers as
can be seen in Borrower Annex E.3.
F) BANK AND EXECUTING AGENCYPERFORMANCE
F. 1 BANK PERFORMANCE
PROMUEBA's implementation took place with constant interaction with the Bank, receiving
from it advice and support to undertake operations and actions necessary for project
implementation, especially in the areas of procurement and disbursements. At the same time, the
work with the various (Bank) missions contributed to the definition of strategies and taking of
decisions that helped establish the direction of the Project toward its successful outcome.
F.2 EXECUTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE
The execution of the Project was in the hands of FUNDACOMUN's management team, who
established a shared commitment toward the Project by the agency's own managers and the
PMU. This measure eased different actions planned for the execution of the Project and putting
into practice key actions, such as the provision of funds and decision-making that benefited the
implementation of PROMUEBA.
With respect to the impact of PROMUEBA through its Municipal Technical Assistance
component, data collection has begun to allow a systematic assessment. Preliminary data has
already identified some positive effects, such as the increase of real income through tax
collection, the introduction of project management, improvement in bargaining for resources
through inter-governmental transfers, project selection and costing through community priorities,
among other aspects, always connected with Project objectives. Furthermore, (this component)
strengthened the institutional capacity to manage the PROMUEBA project itself, the capacity to
coordinate (i.e. through the integration of FUNDACOMUN with the implementation of the
Project), and generated skills in project evaluation and contracting.
Implementation generated an in-house capacity within FUNDACOMUN which has helped it
become the lead institution in Venezuela concerned with municipal technical assistance activities.



31
Equally, it generated a diverse supply (of assistance) in different areas, through projects precisely
focused upon municipal demand for institutional strengthening. This supply adjusted to the
particular development conditions of particular municipalities, given their specific conditions
with regard to population, size of populated settlements, economic base etc.
The form of implementation used, allowed a national scale program to achieve the participation
of local and foreign public and private institutions of high caliber and recognized prestige,
improving (Venezuela's) response capacity in this area.
H) PROJECTSUSTAINABILITY
The permanence of the Project achievements is associated with the provision of funds for
financing new works and for financing municipal governments' programs of preventative
maintenance to guarantee the (future) operation of the service networks provided. In this sense,
the flow of investments to fulfil such aims is connected with (the) Government (of Venezuela)
policies and decisions. Such decisions will be taken in the immediate future by the appropriate
agencies.
I) FACTORS THATAFFECTED THE PROJECT
In the area of infrastructure, we consider factors that (negatively) affected the Project, such as:
municipal administrations' (initial) capacity to formulate projects; lack of PROMUEBA project
responsibility assigned by mayors; lack of liquidity of the government (of Venezuela); December
1995 elections while works were under way that led to new mayors being elected, requiring that
(PROMUEBA) work start all over again, beginning at the promotional phase.
In the area of Municipal Training and Technical Assistance, (negative) factors of a political kind
meant that measures and decisions associated with transparent and modern systems of
management were not fully applied. This limited the scope of these systems. Resistance to change
by some municipal staff also constrained the application of these systems in specific cases.
J) LESSONS LEARNED
PROMUEBA's implementation allowed one to appreciate the effectiveness of developing
management through a project culture. Its application lead to the implementation of an
operational dynamic that ensured the necessary speed for component execution. In addition,
during the process of project implementation and as a result of the demonstration effect of the
results achieved, it became possible to establish close working relationships with other agencies,
who brought in resources to strengthen and expand the scope of the sub-projects.
On the other hand, work done together with the municipal governments in both the infrastructure
and institutional strengthening areas, contributed significantly to broadening and updating
knowledge about the situation at this (local) level in our country.
Also, the experience of this process highlighted the importance of defining policies and precise
strategies for strengthening municipalities within the framework of the process of decentralization
which is under way in Venezuela. The development of a local management capacity is a strategic
condition necessary for decentralization to advance toward levels of government that are closer to



32
the citizenry and also for it to be in a position to respond to the demands, expectations and needs
of local communities in a satisfactory way. In this way, one can appreciate the value of involving
communities in public projects, when this leads to better quality, transparency and harmony with
existing priorities.
K) INSTITUTIONAL SITUATIONAND PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION
The implementation of PROMUEBA created the opportunity to launch and later fix once again
FUNDACOMUN as leading institution, par excellence, in municipal development in Venezuela.
The repeated recognition (of this) by the National Council of Mayors is a true expression of the
renewed prestige of the agency, which generates a favorable environment for the future
development of projects. The institutional credibility achieved has placed FUNDACOMUN in a
privileged position to establish agreements with other agencies to develop joint projects in such
important sectors as tourism and housing.
With respect to the private sector, the development of PROMUEBA contributed toward
positively stimulating the (private) construction sector through contracting undertaking as part of
the infrastructure component. In this way, the execution of civil works produced a favorable
impact in local markets through the purchase of inputs and materials, as well as generating
income and employment for local labor. In addition, the implementation of the institutional
strengthening component opened a market for consulting in municipal technical assistance
through the mass hiring of specialized firms. This process made evident within the consulting
market, the existence and potential of this business segment aimed at municipal institutional
strengthening that provides a wide range of services and products. This opportunity is sealed by
the advance of the political/administrative decentralization and the growing needs of
modernization of local govemment.



33
Borrower Contribution to the ICR.
VENEZUELA: LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - PROMUEBA
WORKS EXECUTED BY PROMUEBA (1993-98)
Number of Works by Type:
Year      No. of     No. of      No. of    Water    Sewerage   Drainage   Paving  Electricity  Storage  Oxidation  Pumping   No. of  Total investment
states   municipalities   barrios                                               tanks     pond    station   families       (Bs.)
1993        2         2           5          3         5          3        2        1                                   3,049      125,179,695
1994        4         7           19         4         12        11        9        1        1                         11.838     1,138,545,371
1995        4         5           11         7         11         6        13       2                           1       7,491     1,131,551,997
1996        4         9           15         4         9          2        1        2                  1                7,643     1,561,184,859
1997        4         22          53        21         29        24       27        6                  1        1      35,860     10,35,450,618
1998                               1                                                                                     150        67,822,771
TOTAL    18           45          104       39         67        46        52       12        1        2        2       66,031    14,339,735,311



34
Borrower Contribution to the ICR.
VENEZUELA: LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - PROMUEBA
(SOLID WASTE) TRUCK ASSIGNMENT PROGRAM
Number of trucks assigned   Total of States benefited  Total of Municipalities    Total of families benefited    Total Investment (US$
by FUNDACOMUN                                         benefited              by truck/cycle              million)
50                      19                       46                      2,250                     4.6
Given that the proper collection of solid waste is
considered an important aspect of improving the sanitary
and environmental conditions in barrios, the Project will
finance the purchase of vehicles, equipment (trucks and
containers) to improve solid waste collection in the barrios
improved under the Project.



35
Borrower Contribution to the ICR.
VENEZUELA: LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - PROMUEBA
(INFRASTRUCTURE) TARGETS ACHIEVED
Component                                       Number of families by component                  Length of network (km)
Water supply                                                 22,962                                      108.4
Sewerage                                                     35,667                                      273.5
Drainage                                                     31,109                                      240.4
Electricity                                                  7,547                                        7.5
Paving                                                       45,957                                      147.2



36
Borrower Contribution to the ICR.
VENEZUELA: LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - PROMUEBA
(INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIONS)
Stage I                Stage II
Actions:                                                                  1994        1995      1996-97    1997-98    TOTAL
Municipal Technical Assistance Projects                                    30          56         330         407       737(*)
Municipalities Assisted through TA Component                               30          56          72         235        235
Investment (US$ million)                                                   0.2         0.8        9.6         15.3       25.8
Note: (*) includes projects and municipalities assisted during the 1996-98 period



37
Borrower Contribution to the ICR.
VENEZUELA: LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - PROMUEBA
(FUNDACOMUN) INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Training courses     Photocopying        Fax machines         Telephone          Automobiles          Computer
(1996-97)           machines             (1996)            exchange             (1996)              Network
(1996)                                 (1996)                                  (1997)
661 employees       12                 23                  One, including      13                  4 servers
telephones                              160 computers
59 printers
139 regulators
139 tables
139 protectors
139 suppressors
Total investment US$9.2 million.



