Document of
The World Bank;
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10401-VE
Report No. 10401-VE Type: (SAR)
CODATO, E./ X38646 / 17 129/ LA11N
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MAY 29, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and  may be used by  reiplnts only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1991)
Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs)
US$1.00 = Bs. 61.55
Bs. 1.00 = US$0.016
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 'I o O)ecember 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CADAFE             -   E.ectricity Administration and Development Corporation (Compahlia
An6nima de Administraci6n y Fomento Electrico)
CBV                -   Central Bank of Venezuela
FAP                -   Financial Action Plan
FONDUR             -   Urban Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Urbano)
FONVIS             -   Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment (Fondo Venezolano de
Inversi6n Social)
FUDECO             -   Foundation for the Development of Midwest Region (Fundaci6n
para el Desarrollo de la Regi6n Centro - Occidental)
FUNDACOMUN         -   Foundation for Community and Municipal Development (Fundaci6n
para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad y Fomento Municipal)
FSAL               -   Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOV                -   Government of Venezuela
INOS               -   National Institute of Sanitation Works (Instituto Nacional de Obras
Sanitarias)
INAVI              -   National Housing Institute (Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda)
IDB                -   Inter-American Development Bank
LORM               -   Municipal Law (Ley Organica de Regimen Municipal)
MINDUR             -   Ministry of Urban Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano)
MINFAM             -   Ministry of Family (Ministerio de la Familia)
MTI7AP             -   Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
PIP                -   Project Implementation Plan
PMU                -   Project Management Unit
POM                -   Project Operations Manual
PROINSOL           -   Social Infrastructure Investment Program (Programa de Inversi6n
Social Local)
SAIB               -   FUNDACOMUN's Barrio Information Analysis System (Sistema de
Analisis de Informaci6n de Barrios)
UNDP               -   United Nations Development Program
USAID              -   United States Agency for International Development



................  .......I........   1  i,i . i,ii,1 III.I.II rIIII 1 lrl I1  11 11 1     1  1111  I
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table o Contents
I.BACKGROUND ............................  1
Project Background  ............................   1
Macro-Economic Setting ............................   2
Poverty and Urban Development Issues.                                                  3
II. THE URBAN SECTOR                                       .5
Main Features.                                                                         5
Municipal Government in Venezuela.                                                     7
GOV's Decentralization Strategy.                                                       7
Sector Organization and Institutions.                                                  8
Key Sector Development Constraints .10
Bank Group Assistance and Strategy .11
III. THE PROJECT .12
Project Objectives and Strategy .12
Summary Project Description .13
Detailed Project Features .13
Criteria for Selection of Municipalities, Barrios and Investment Subprojects .17
Project Costs .18
Financing .20
Procrement .20
Disbursements .24
Accounts and Audits .25
This report is based on the findinge of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Eleoterio Codato (Urban
Management Specialist, Task Manager, LAIIN), Roy Gilbert (Econ)mist, Consultant), Enoch Varon-Lenis
(Engineer, Consultant) and Domingo Ruiz (Financial Analyst, Consultaw   vhich visited Venezuela in Deceiaber
1991. The report was updated based on the agreements reached during loar. negotiations which were concluded in
May 1992, and a mission (Eleoterio Codato, Mary Sheehan, and Robert Taylor, LAIIN) which visited Venezuela
in February 1992. Mr. Armeane M. Choksi and Mr. Asif Faiz are the managing Department Director and Division
Chief, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
IV. PROJECr MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .                                              .................  25
Project Management .........................................  25
Implementation of Project Components  ............................. 26
Status of Preject Preparation ....................................  28
Annual Plans, Mid-Term  Review, Monitoring and Evaluation  ...............  29
V. FINANCIAL  ASPECTS   ........................................ 30
Municipal Finances  .........................................  30
Financing Arrangements for Infrastructure Improvement Subprojects ....                          ....... 31
Cost Recovery   ............................................  32
VI. BENEFITS AND  RISKS   .......................................  33
Benefits   ................................................  33
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests  ............................  34
Environmental and Poverty Impacts  ...............................  35
Uncertainties and Risks .......................................  36
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ......................... 37
Agreements Reached   ........................................  37
ANNEX  1. The Executing Agency: FUNDACOMUN   ........................ 40
ANNEX2. Municipal Finances in Venezuela   ............................. 43
ANNEX  3. Summary First-Year Municipal Investment Programs  ................. 50
ANNEX  4. Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program   ................ 56
ANNEX  5. Project Costs Summary   ...................................  82
ANNEX  6. Estimated Implementation Schedule  .........  ..................  83
ANNEX  7. Outline Terms of Reference for the Project Monitoring System   ....                            .......  84
ANNEX  8. Supervision Plan ........................................  88
ANNEX  9. Estimated Disbursement Schedule  ............................. 91
ANNEX  10. Prior Review  Threshold: Sample Contract Profile by Value/Number  ...                            .... 92
ANNEX  11. Documents in Project Files  .................................  93
MAP: IBRD No. 22154



Hii
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Venezuela
Executing Agency:  Fundacion para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad y Fomento Municipal -
FUNDACOMUN
Benediciaries:     FUNDACOMUN and municipalities
Amount:            US$40 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:  The main objectives of the proposed project are: (i) to improve living
conditions in low-income barrios through the provision and improvement of
basic urban infrastructure services; (ii) to develop the planning, administrative
and executive capabilities of the nunicipalities -- in supp'rt of the Venezuelan
government's decentralization policy - by making municipalities responsible
for subproject execution and introducing fundamental municipal management
concepts such as project evaluation and monitoring, fiscal responsibility, cost
recovery, and maintenance; and (iii) to strengthen the administrative and
technical capacity of FUNDACOMUN in order to improve its ability to assist
municipalities.
Project Description: The proposed project consists of: (a) an infrastructure improvements
component (73% of total project costs) which will finance the construction of
basic infrastructure and purchase of equipment to extend or improve
municipal services such as water supply, sewerage, electricity, drainage,
street paving, and garbage collection in selected low income barrios; (b) an
institutional development component (27% of total project costs) which will
support the improvement of municipalities' institutional capacity (through
material support, technical assistance and training) and the strengthening of
FUNDACOMUN's institutional capacity (by fmancing the preparation of an
organizational development plan; the development of a management
information system; technical assistance for project management; policy
studies and surveys; staff training; and purchase of vehicles and equipment).
Relending Terms:   The Borrower would transfer to FUNDACOMUN the full proceeds of the
Bank loan. Through sub-loan agreements FUNDACOMUN would on-lend
part of the Bank loan proceeds to municipalities to finance 27 percent of the
total cost of the infrastructure improvements under the project (Component



iv
A). Repayment terms for sub-borrowers would be ten years, in,cluding three
years' grace, with a variable interest rate set at 85 percent of the average
non-preferential lending rate of the six Ilrgest commercial banks in
Venezuela, adjusted annually. Technical assistance to municipalities would
be provided free of charge.
Benerits:          Project investments will improve the environmental and sanitary conditions
for about 230,000 low-income inhabitants of barrios in Venezuelan cities.
Private investments in housing are expected to increase as a result of the
infrastructure improvements financed under the project, coupled with the
legalization of land tenure. Although these investments are difficult to
estimate, past experience suggests that they can be quite significant. The
proiect will also improve municipal finance and administration. Since
municipalities wili be required to repay FUNDACOMUN an amount
corresponding to 27 percent ef the total cost of the infrastructure
improvements under the project, they will be faced with the need to increase
their own revenues by an amount required to cover these payments. The
project will thus introduce the principle and, more importantly, the practice
of cost recovery to municipalities in Venezuela. Finally, the project will
improve FUNDACOMUN's capacity to assist mriunicipalities and establish a
new working relationship with municipal gover iments, which are becoming
increasingly important as a result of decentralizuTon measures.
Risks:             The main risks are associated with the lack of exp, i -e3 of FUNDACOMUN
and municipalities in preparing and executing urba, uevelopment projects
with exernal financing, especially from the Bank; the lack of sufficient
demand for investment financing by municipalities under the terms and
conditions offered under the project; and the lack of willingness of the
government to continue supporting reforms related to the decentrqlization
process, especially in the funding of urban infrastructure investments. To
deal with the need to strengthen the implementation and institutional capacity
of implementing agencies, the project would provide training and technical
assistance to FUNDACOMUN and participating municipalities. It would also
finance a municipal finance study that would address the policy issues related
to the funding of municipal investments. A project mid-term review would
provide for adjustraents in subproject financing terms and conditions if
municipal demand for project funds were to change.



v
Estimated F-oject Costs:"'
Project Component                    Local      PoreiLn     ITtaI
--------(US$ million)-----------
A. Infrastructure and Solid Waste          28.8        21.4        50.2
B. Institutional Development               13.4        5.4         18.8
Total Base Cost                         42,2        269 
Physical Contingencies                4.2         2.7         6.9
Price Contingencies                   5.9         3.7         9.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      5       2.3             I
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                        6.8        33.2        40.0
Government of Venezuela                    37.4        0.0         37.4
Municipalities                              .1          .0           8.1
TOTAL                  52 85 .S
Tentative Loan Disbursement Schedule:k'
Bank Fiscal Year        1993    1994       i199      1M96       1997      1998
Annual                   11.2     8.5       8.5       7.6        3.8       0.4
Cumulative               11.2    19.7       28.2      35.8      39.6      40.0
p/ Net of txes amd dudes, which are negligle.
b/ Tne FY93   ountsincludean initialdepositinto the SpecialAccountttllingUS$2.5-milion
Economic Rate of Return: 22 percent (for investments relating to infrastructure improvements)
Map: IBRD No. 22154



VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOVE BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1   This project has its origins in two developments within Venezuela: the growing urban poverty
in Venezuela's barrio settlements; and the Government's efforts to decentralize the provision of basic
infrastructure services to the municipal level.
J-2   Barrio is the term. used in Venezuela to refer to unplanned neighborhoods which begin as
squatter set tements and with time achieve some degree of community organization and urban
servuws. La general, barrios throughout Venezuela are typically located on the periphery of all major
cities lack one or more of the basic urban services, such as electricity, water and sewerage, and
contain residenss xho belong to low income strata and who have no legal title to the land they
occupy.
1.3   Barrios ar: not a new phenomenon in Venezuela -- in 1950, 17 percent of the population of
the capital, Caracas, already lived in unplanned neighborhoods. And, although widespread in Latin
America and much of the developing world, the scale and growth of these settlements in Venezuela
is almost without parallel. Since 1978, the number of barrios has more than doubled; it is estimated
that some 52 percent of the urban population (and 41 percent of the country's total population) now
live in roughly 3800 urban barrios. The proliferation of barrios has been coupled with a startling
growth in poverty (from 32.6 percent of all households in 1982 to an estimated 53 percent in 1989).
1.4    These factors, together with the serious urban riots o. February 1989 in Caracas and other
main cities, led the new government to introduce in early 1989 a Poverty Alleviation Plan (Plan para
el Eenretadento de la Pobreza), setting guidelines and programs to mitigate the adverse effects of
poverty in the near term. The six programs proposed under the plan are: (a) Employment and
Income Generation; (b) National Nutrition; (c) Child Care; (d) Barrio hnprovement; (e) Labor
Protection; and (f) Social Infrastructure. According to the plan, the Barrio Improvement Program
is comnposed of three sub-programs that focus on the areas of social services, basic infrastructure,
and housing improvements. The stated objectives of the Sub-Program for Basic Infrastructure
Improvements in Barrios are to improve urban infrastructure services in the low income
neighborhoods and generate employment for low-income families.  Responsibility for its
implementation was assigned to FUNDACOMUN (Fundaci6n para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad
y Fomento Municipal - Foundation for Community Development and Municipal Growth), which
would coordinate it with other sector entities.



2
1.5   Supporting GOV's poverty alleviation strategy is an issue of high priority for many
international agencies. In November 1990, the Bank approved the Social Development Project (Loan
No. 3270-VE) which focuses on primary health and education. Under its Regional Project for
Overcoming Poverty (Proyecto Regional para la SuperaciOn de la Pobreza), UNDP undertook an
extensive study of the situation in Venezuela (La Pooreza en Venezuela - PNUD, 1990; see para.
1.13). Also in 1990, the Bank issued the Venezuela Poverty Study (Report No. 9114-VE) which
deals with both urban and rural poverty. Recently, the later-American Development Bank (IDB)
approved a loan for the Social Infrastructure Program which also includes finanzing of urban
infrastructure investments for barrio improvement.
B. Macro-Economic Settirg
1.6   The Pre-1989 Period: Uniquely among the major countries of Latin America, Venezuela's
economic fortunes for the past half century have been determined by orie commodity, oil. Boosted
by oil revenues and growth of the non-oil sector, real per capita GNP rose throughout the 1970s,
from US$2,520 (in constant 1980 terms) in the early 1970s to a peak of US$4,320 in 1981. During
this period, the government pursued a development policy geared towards diversification of the
industrial base through heavy public investment in state-owned enterprises, principally, in aluminum,
steel and energy sectors. Also, successive governments provided generalized consumer subsidies
through pricing key goods and services below economic costs (e.g. gasoline, electricity, key
foodstuffs).
1.7   In 4.erms of the urban sector, the oil boom of 1973-82 had two negative consequences: (a)
it established the precedent of providing public services below economic costs; and (b) despite
Venezuela'S stable democracy since 1958, it stifled local administration through centralizing most
responsibilities at the national level and through the provision of substantial transfers from the central
government. Abundant revenues invited unclear accountability and did not encourage cost recovery
for public services provided by local government institutions.
1.8   With the drop in oil revenues in the 1980s, the extensive system of price and exchange
controls, import restrictions and administrative regulations was no longer sustainable. Real per
capita GNP declined steadily to US$2,300 (constant 1980 value) by 1988, below the levels in the
early 1970s and roughly half the peak level of 1981. The Bank's Poverty Study (1990) notes that,
although the economic crisis negatively affected all levels of income between 1982 and 1989, there
was a shift in the concentration of income from the poorest ten percent of households to the highest
ten percent. Over this period, there was a drop of 17 percent in the household incomes of the lowest
decile, and a corresponding increase of 24 percent in the highest decile, while all remaining income
categories experienced a drop of around 9.5 percent.
1.9   The Reforms of 1989:  Immediately upon taking power in February 1989, the new
government of President Perez initiated a fundamental restructuring of the nation's economy. It
combined reform of the trade and exchange system, reduction of price controls, deregulation of
financial and industrial markets, the establishment of social programs targeted to the poor, and the
privatization of state-owned industries. Its basic goal was to shift the economy from one based on



3
the consumption of oil rents to one based on growth in productive activities; to reorient the economy
and restore a we'l-functioning market mechanism, which would replace government intervention in
determining resource allocation; and to address the most urgent poverty problems which had been
aggravated by the adjustment program.
1.10  Major policy reforms initiated by the Perez administration are taking hold and are expected
to continue on several fronts, including price, trade, public enterprise, and the financial sector. The
priority is now to promote sustainable growth. For that, traditional public sector activities must
return to more normal levels; and private investment, which declined sharply in 1989, should revive.
For this, the government must create a stable clima,' for both domestic and foreign investors, instill
norms of efficiency in public sector management, and improve the institutional capacity of its several
tiers. Over the long term, Venezuela will have to build up its economic and social infrastructure,
reform its administrative and political systems so as to increase people's participation and their
control over political decision making, and improve the allocation of resources, notably those
controlled by the public sector.
C. Poverty and Urban Development Issues
1.11  Despite the relative high level of per capita income in Venezuela, poverty in both urban and
rural areas has been acute. In fact, the Bank's Poverty Study noted that poverty not only remains
widespread in Venezuela but, indeed, has increased significantly in the past decade. Some socio-
economic indicators in Venezuela are the same as countries with half or less its GNP per capita. For
example, Venezuela's infant mortality rate (36 per 1,000) is twice that of Costa Rica, a country with
only 73 percent of its income per capita. Similarly, Venezuela's illiteracy rate (13%) is double that
of Argentina, Uruguay, Costa Rica and Chile, and slightly higher than Colombia's, a country with
only half of Venezuela's GNP per capita. And. only 45 percent of the population has access to
sanitary facilities, a similar level to Honduras, one of the poorest countries of the region.
1.12  Under its Regional Project for Overcoming Poverty, UNDP used a basic needs approach to
define poverty. Out of the six criteria used, three were directly related to the proposed project,
namely: (aj inadequiate water and drainage services; b) limited access to electricity; and (c) poor
housing conditions. It found that nearly 85 percent of the poor in Venezuela lived in the country's
urban areas. The study also identified major regional variations in poverty. The poorest state,
Apure, had 70.3 percent of its po- ' ltion living in poverty without meeting basic needs, while the
equivalent figure for the Federr   _rict, Caracas, was 23.5 percent. However, because of the
population concentration in X  areas, the highes. qbsolute numbers of poor are found in
Venezuela's larger and richer  . ;s.
1.13  Like earlier investigations, the Bank's Poverty Study found a general worsening of the
situation for the country's poor. Some 22 percent of all households live in conditions of extreme
poverty (defined as an inability to afford even the minimum daily food requirement), while an
acditionpl 31 percent suffer from critical poverty (defined as having up to twice the income of those
in extreme poverty). Thus, 53 percent of Venezuelan households are considered poor, a sharp rise
from the 32 percenlt in the same categories in 1982. Furthermore, the wealthiest 30 percent of



4
households are estimated to earn over 62 percent of total real household income, whereas the poorest
30 percent earn only 8.7 percent. Owing to the fact that nearly 85 percent of the total population
live in urban areas, povcrty is primarily an urban phenomenon .n Venezuela, with the squalid living
conditions of the urban poor in un-serviced squatter areas or barrios, surrounding the major urban
centers, being a source of special concern.
1.14 A key issue raised by the Bank's Poverty StA.dy deals with inadequate targeting of GOV
poverty programs, which have resulted in high costs without necessarily benefiting the intended
populations. The study called for imnproved data to better target sectoral programs and a shift of
resource allocation to favor cost effective interventions. Another important concern stems from the
rapid growth of the urban population, at 3.3 percent per annum over the 1980-89 period, which has
fuelled the expansion of barrios throughout Venezuela.   Current estimates, based upon
FUNDACOMUN's previous Inventory of Barrios (1984), put the .mu.-her of Venezuela's urban
barrios in 1989 at 3,769, where 8.3 million people, or 52 percent u.     otal urban population lived.
Both the number of barrios and the number of residents in them have mor onan doubled since 1978.
Those in the federal district of Caracas, accounting for some 19.8 percent of the total number of
barrios in the country, are the most well known, being readily visible to any casuw' visitor. They
are also among the most difficult and costly to improve, being mostly located on steep unstable
slopes.
1.15  Estimates based upon the 1984 inventory indicate that more than 60 percent of barrio
residents belong to families with household income less than the individual minimum wage, currently
set at Bs. 6,000 per month (approximately US$100). Low-income families have opted for squatting
as t>1c only affordable solution available in cities where the population has grown faster than the
suppiy of land zoned for development. The lack of access of the urban poor to formal urban land
markets, combined with an aversion among higher income families to live in barrios, assures that
the latter are synonymous with low-income settlements in Venezuelan cities.
1.16 Responsibility for addressing the infrastructure and housing needs of the urban poor lies
primarily with local governments. Although Venezuela's decentralization program has shifted
financial and decision-making responsibilities to states and municipalities, they remain the weaker
levels of government and require substantial strengthening of basic government functions: planning,
budgeting, financial management, and project design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
1.17  Despite its constitution as a federal system, local government in Venezuela has functioned
more like administrative units operating under the direction of the national executive, the legislature,
and political parties. Though this is now changing, the legacy of central control is reflected in the
institutional weakness of m,  municipalities and states. Following recent electoral reforms, city
mayors (for the first time o..y in 1989) and state governors are now directly elected. Although
mayors in Venezuela now have a clear political mandate, the effective exercise of this mandate is
strictly limited by the debilitated condition of municipal administration. For such a highly urbanized
country, the weaknesses of local administrations of urban areas is striking. Lack of exploitation of
their local tax base has left ail municipalities heavily dependent on central goveri fuent transfers for
their financial solvency. Even in the case of some of Venezuela's largest cities, this dependence has
left municipal administration without basic capabilities such as managing the procurement process
for public works, for example. To help overcome local government weaknesses such as these, the



proposed project will directly support municipal strengthening with the aim 3f enabling municipalities
in Venezuela to meet their obligadons towards improving the condition of barrios found in major
cities throughout the country.
II. THF. URBAN SECTOR
A. Main Features
2.1   Venezuela is highly urbanized: it is estimated that 88 nercent of -< enezuela's population now
live in urban areas, the highest rate in the Americas, and one of the highest in the world. With an
annual growth of 3.3 percent, urba.iuzation is expected to continue, and UN HABITAT projections
indicate that, by the year 2025, 93 percent of Venezuela's population will be urban. Caracas is the
largest urban center in the country, with a metropolitan area population of 2.8 million in -90, but
it neither approaches the scale of the region's megacities, e.g. Mexico City and Sao Paulo, nor
dominates the national urban system as Buenos Aires and Montevideo do in their respective
countries. imnpertant secondary centers, notably Maracaibo (pop. 1.4 million) and Valencia (pop.
1.0 million) are potential counter-weights to Caracas. The rapid growth of Venezuelan cities can
be appreciated from the fact that in 1950, there were only two cities in the country with populations
in excess of 200,000, namely Caracas with 680,000 and Maracaibo with 239,000. Today there are
ten (see Table 2.1).
2.2   Rapid urbanization has been a phenomenon common lo all Latin American countries. UN
HABITAT projections indicate that this growth is likely to continue beyond the end of the present
century. In this context, Venezuela stands out for three reasons. Firstly, it already has the largest
share of its total population living in urban areas among the countries of Latin America, a position
that is projected to be sustained through to the year 2010. Secondly, UN HABITAT's figures show
that Venezuela's urban population has increased most rapidly (from 4.5 to 5.0 percent per annum
during the 1950-1980 period); by 2010, it will have an urban population more tian ten times larger
than it had in 1950. Currently, annual urban population growth has fallen to 2.5 percent, but it is
still one of the highest rates in the region. Thirdly, Venezuela's urbanization has been driven by the
establishment and growth of urban service centers, rather thaw. through the traditional process of
industrialization as the principal drive behind urbanization. During the 1970-81 period, when
Venezuelan cities were growing fastest, manufacturing accounted for 16.2 percent of Venezuela's
GD1', compared to over 26 percent of the GDP in Argentina, Brazil, and Peru.
2.3   The rapid urbanization process in Venezuela has resulted in a major network of urban
centers, whose importance is reflected by their size (Table 2.1). Although Caracas is a large
agglomeration by any standard, it does not dominate the country's urban system. Approximately half
the country's urban population lives in the ten largest cities listed in Table 1, while the other half
lives in smaller cities with less than 200,000 inhabitants. The majority of the urban population lives
in the coastal zone between Caracas and Maracaibo in the west, an urban axis of some 500
kilometers.



6
2.4    Urban growth in Venezuela      bl 2.1- VENEZUEtA -P oUlatio of PuFn6 iu Ce199
has led to the rapid expansion of                 {number of inhabitan"-          -
barrios.    While  this  is  a
phenomenon that is widespread in    :                            _
Latin America and most of the   -aracas                                t738400
developing world, the scale and                 V    -aeca-
growth  of these settlements in                 Maracay   :       -0-
Venezuela  is  almost  without                  Barquisimeto            -746,.0
parallel.  When frst established,  :            Ciudad Guayana           467  0-
barrios consist of ranchos or shacks    :arceloia               :29 . 
constructed with shoddy materials.   -          Sa* Crib0
-Matuirih                258,000.
As  the  barrios  become  more                  Cihlat  -o -.:r          248,000
consolidated, even without services,
residents improve their dwellings                                      8,989,000
with the use of more permanent                  O  Aitie
materials. In this way, single-room             Total Urban Ppulation  17,451,0O0
brick dwellings are established, as                                            -
in the case of Caracas. Most cities            No": Oat tfor em=V  ect&n  -tdr VfW&d    wMdih;.fwt l
lack a rational delivery system to                 ,SC,fw Of COMO o   --.
plan anid increase coverage of water
supply, sanitation, electrical energy,
transportation,  and  community
services for these barrios. In the absence of an adequate formal supply of urban infrastructure and
housing, barrios became the only feasible location for low income populations to find and establish
shelter in Venezuelan cities. Clearly, there is a need to develop appropriate delivery mechanisms,
commensurate with the financial, economic and institutional capabilities of the country.
2.5    Venezuelan planners clarsify the barrios in three groups:
* "consolidated", where substantial investments in infrastructure and housing have been
made, and some residents may even have legal title to the land;
*  "consolidating", where residents are beginning to improve their homes, and some
attempts (mostly informal) have been made to introduce urban infrastructure; and
* "impossible to consolidate", usually in areas at risk from natural disasters, such as
unstable slopes or land liable to frequent flooding -- relocation of the residents is
recommended in such cases.
2.6   Irrespective of its classification, a barrio is an illegal settlement if the residents have no legal
right to occupy the land, or such rights are not formally registered in municipal cadastres, a situation
which applies to the great majority of urban barrios in Venezuela.



7
B. Municipal Government in Venezuela
2.7   Venezuela has 269 municipalities, of which 76 have populations exceeding 50,000.
Regardless of their population size, municipalities in Venezuela have traditionally been very weak.
Though the 1961 Constitution granted to municipalities a wide range of fiscal authority and functional
responsibilities -- e.g. for water, sewerage, drainage, the distribution and sale of gas and electricity,
and for public transport -- in practice, the central government actually assumed responsibility for
these functions. The municipalities have mostly been responsible for solid waste collection and
disposal, public markets, fire fighting, cemeteries, and limited public works, including barrio
upgrading and water connections.
2.8   Municipalities have traditionally relied heavily upon central government transfers, rather than
their own revenue, to finance their expenditures. In 1986, municipal expenditures accounted for 9.1
percent of total public sec.tor spending, but own-source municipal revenue represented only 4 percent
of total government revenues. The bulk of central government transfers are provided under a 1976
statute on revenue-sharing commonly referred to as the sfwuado law, whereby a specified percentage
of central government revenues is transferred to state and municipal governments. The situado
transfers to municipalities (0.75 percent of central government revenues prior to the 1989 revisions)
represent on average 35 to 40 percent of all municipal revenue (see Annex 2). The transfers are
allocated as follows: 50 percent in equal allotments to all municipalities, and 50 percent on a per
capita basis. The result is that smaller municipalities receive much larger per capita transfers than
larger municipalities. For example, the nation's largest municipality, Libertador (with 1.8 million
people, including Caracas proper), received situado transfers of roughly US$9 per capita in 1991,
whereas smaller municipalities with populations under 100,000 received US$12 to US$15 per capita.
2.9   Although the Constitution and the Municipal Law (Ley Organica de Regimen Municipal,
LORM, enacted in 1979) provide municipaliiies legal authority to raise revenue from a wide range
of sources, two municipal taxes account for 90 percent of own-source revenue: the business tax
(65%) and property taxes (25%). The business tax (Patente Industria y Comercio) consists of a low
rate tax on gross sales, generally between 0.2 and 1.0 percent, coupled with a minimum tax and a
license fee. Property tax revenue tends to be modest, accounting for roughly 15 percent of total
municipal revenue, including transfers. Generally, rates are low, properties are systematically
underassessed, and tax evasion is widespread.
C. GOV's Decentralization Strategy
2.10   Commencing in 1989, the government launched a far-reaching decentralization program
aimed at significantly strengthening the role and responsibilities of state and municipal governments.
The 1989 revisions to the Municipal Law (LORM) and the 1990 Decentralization Law have formed
the cornerstone of this strategy. rhe 1989 revisions to the Municipal Law introduced important
electoral reforms, whereby mayors (who were previously appointed by state governors) would be
directly elected, and council members (who were previously elected from closed party lists) would
be elected representatives of their districts. Municipal elections were held on this basis in late 1989.
The 1990 Decentralization Law authorized the transfer of a number of expenditure responsibilities



8
to the state governments and also substantially increased central government transfers to state and
municipal governments. Under the Decentralization Law, the central government transfers to
municipal governments will increase by 300 percent over four years, from 0.75 percent of central
government revenues in 1989 to 3.0 percent by 1994. In 1991, transfers to the 76 largest
municipalities (with populations exceeding 50,000) totalled US$120 million equivalent.
2.11   These measures to expand the expenditure responsibilities and fiscal resources of state Lid
municipal governments have been accompanied by similar decentralization initiatives in key public
utilities, notably electricity and water. In power, the major national utiLy responsible for electricity
transmission and distribution, C4DAFE, has decentralized its distribution operations to four new
regional companies. These companies are expected to be granted full fuvincial and operational
autonomy over the next year as a first step towards privatization. Similarly, in the water sector, the
national agency, INOS, is being dismantled and new autonomous regional/local companies are being
set up to provide water and sewerage services.
D. Sector Organization and Institutions
Municipal Development, Urban Planning and Housing
2.12 FUNDACOMUN is the primary agency of central government directly concerned with barrio
improvement and strengthening municipal government. FUNDACOMUN reports to the Ministry of
Family. Founded in 1962, when it received major funding from USAID, its initial role was to
support municipal development through technical assistance (primarily training courses for municipal
officials) and financial assistance (through low-interest loans for purchasing equipment related to
municipal services, e.g. solid waste collection). A total of 26,135 municipal officials have been
trained under programs organized by FUNDACOMUN. In 1974, its role was expanded to include
barrio improvement. Since then, it has carried out this role by constructing some 220 "modules'
(community centers with basic health and day care facilities) in barrios throughout Venezuela. It also
undertook two nation-wide "inventories" (surveys) of barrios in 1978 and 1984; a third survey is
planned for 1992.
2.13 FUNDACOMUN currently has 800 employees, split between its head office in Caracas
(roughly 200 employees) and its 21 regional offices. Its 1992 budget, amounting to approximately
US$19 million equivalent, is financed primarily through central government transfers (more than
95%), with the remainder from interest payments from its outstanding loans to municipalities.
During the period 1985-89, FUNDACOMUN provided approximnately Bs.300 million in low-interest
loans (4% repayable in three years) to municipalities. Roughly half of that amount (Bs. 150 million,
or US$2.3 million at current exchange rates) is in arrears, and FUNDACOMUN recently launched
a major recovery effort. Loan arrears have diminished its capital, with the result that no new loans
have been provided since mid-1991.
2.14   MINDUR (Ministry of Urban Development): created in 1975 as a result of the Ministry
of Public Works' restructuring, and today has some 3,000 staff members. It has two main areas of
responsibility. First, MINDUR develops (usually on behalf of sectoral ministries) specific central



9
government investments (ranging from public administration buildings to airport terminals) in urban
areas throughout Venezuela which accounts for approximately 85 percent of its staff and resources.
Secondly, MINDUR supervises Venezuela's complex system of urban planning. Consistent with a
centralist tradition, local urban plans have beer prepared mostly on behalf of municipalities by
MINDUR itself. Despite their legal respon6 '.ifty for local zoning ordinances, municipalities
themselves have in the past been restricted to presenting what are little more than "shopping lists"
of investment projects (known as Programas de Actuacidn Urbanistica) with the hope that the central
government would agree to finance some of these projects.
2.15 Affiliated with MINDUR are two important urban development agencies: INAVI (Instiawo
Nacional de la VivWenda), the national public housing agency, and FONDUR (Fondo Nacionalpara
el Desarrollo Urbano), the National Urban Development 'Fund. In addition to financing and
developing low-;xicome public housing, INAVI has managed a separate barrio consolidation program
since 1986. The program provides grants for construction of basic infrastructure in barrios, as well
as low-interest loans to barrio residents for housing improvements. Since 1986, this program has
financed infrastructure investments in several hundred barrios and housing improvements for 77,381
barrio dwellings. The program's 1992 budget totals US$70 million equivalent. It is expected,
however, that responsibility for this program will be transferred to the state and municipal
governments, as part of the decentralization process as well as the restructuring/privatization of
INAVI now under way. FONDUR, established in 1975, is responsible for buying and developing
land to be used by public agencies and private developers for low-income and lower-rniddle income
housing. Given that its operations are heavily subsidized, FONDUR's long term sustainability is at
risk.
2.16 Local Offices of Municipal Planning (OMPUs): these are local planning offices at the
municipal level which set specific guidelines for densities and for urban use within the legal city
limits.
Urban Infrastructure and Services
2.17 INOS, the state-ownied water supply and sanitation compan-, under the aegis of the Ministry
of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources, is currently being decentralized into
autonomous regional/local water companies. INOS occasionally installs aqueducts and sewer lines
in unplanned neighborhoods, and in the past has managed a general materials bank, which provides
construction materials (e.g. pipes) and occasionally technical assistance to families from squatter
settlements on request.
2.18 Water and sewer lines are also provided by the municipal councils, through their commissions
for social development, by FUNDACOMUN and by the state govermnents. Electricity is provided
by a state-owned national utility, but distribution is managed by the municipalities, or in some cases
by private companies contracted for the purpose. Solid waste collection and disposal is managed by
different agencies, depending on the cities. Roads and public transportation services are provided
by several agencies. In Caracas, for example, these services are fragmented among the Metro
company, the Ministry of Transportation, the Municipality and the Federal District Government.



10
Public transportation is regulated by the municipality while road maintenance is the responsibility of
the last three intaitutions.
Social Services
2.19  Poverty programs and social services are handled by three Ministries: Health, Education, and
Family. Program implementation is managed by decentralized agencies. FONVIS (Fondo
Venezolano de Inversiones Sociales) for example, handles poverty alleviation and social development
programs under the overall direction of the Ministry of the Family. Although FUNDACOMUN still
builds and manages social service modules (multi-purpose complexes built at the neighborhood scale
to house a variety of social, health, and community services) in the unplanned settlements, this
function is being graduallv decentralized to state and municipal governments. In these modules,
FUNDACOMUN coordinates the participation of the municipalities and of the relevant ministries,
each of which manage their own programs.
E. Key Sector Development Constraints
2.20 In parallel with its macro-economic restructuring program, GOV is seeking to improve
housing and urban infrastructure for Venezuela's urban poor. Although the changes that Venezuela
is undergoing are far reaching and complex, there are basically two major sector constraints, namely:
(a) inadequate administrative and financial capacity of municipalities to fulfill their responsibilities
to plan and deliver infrastructure to unserviced parts of cities; and (b) the absence of adequate cost
recovery mechanisms to ersure that basic infrastructure services are sustainable.
2.21  Municipal Institutional Capacity: The weakness of municipal administration derives directly
from the half-century of financial and political dependence of local decision making upon central
government. The establishment of regional development corporations in the 1950s was a pioneering
step designed to rectify the excessive centralization.  Nevertheless, it did little to strengthen
municipal governments. Before the electoral reform in 1989 (contained in the revisions to the
Municipal Law), municipal councils (consejos municipales) had limited authority and powers with
the council members appointed from the cadres of the locally-successful party in national and state
elections. With total dependence upon the central government in Caracas, there was little scope for
these councils to act autonomously.  Planning and extending urban services to a new city
neighborhood, for instance, required decisions in Caracas, even though such matters typically fall
within the realm of local government decision-making in most Latin American countries.
2.22  GOV is now trying to overcome these weaknesses through the pursuit of its decentralization
program. In their present condition, however, municipalities are unprepared to deal effectively with
their new responsibilities. Local government is weakest at: (a) resource mobilization; (b) identifying
and implementing investment projects; (c) managing urban land (including land titling); (d) urban
planning; and (e) general administration. Given these weaknesses and the precarious condition of
municipal institutiors today, it will take some time before effective and responsive local government
institutions become functional in Venezuelan cities' local government. The proposed project would
provide an important stimulus and assistance to strengthen local goverment institutions.



11
2.23  Cost Recoverj: Venezuela has little history of cost recovery for basic services, reflecting the
years of abundant oil money. An affluent central government was able to finance major investments
in infrastructure and public services without charging beneficiaries the full economic costs.
Politicians reaped electoral dividends through channelling funds to public works, benefitting all
income levels. Since the 1980s, it has become clear that a sustainable mechanism must be developed
if significant progress is to be made in improving the conditions for the 8.3 million dwellers of urban
barrios in Venezuela.
2.24 There is a growing realization in GOV that macro-economic and fiscal constraints will require
financial discipline at all levels of government. Already, municipal administrations are acutely aware
of the limited resource base in cities unused to paying their own way. Potential beneficiaries in the
barrios have been used to only two alternatives; first, infrastructure services provided sporadically
and free of charge and, second, following the economic crisis of 1985, practically no service
provision at all. The government is seeking to develop a system of providing services to the barrios
on a sustain4ole and replicabie basis, financed through cost recovery. One possible approach is to
introduce indirect cost recovery whereby, through modest increases in their local revenues (from
today's extremely low base-line), the municipalities would be able to recover part of the costs of
barrio improvements. There would be only partial cost recovery initially, but a major step would
have been taken to devolve financial responsibility for services provided locally to municipalities and,
eventually, to beneficiaries. With the success of this approach, it would be possible to expand the
program so that a sustainable effort could be made through cost-sharing arrangements between GOV
and the municipalities.
F. Bank Group Assistance and Strategy
2.25 Experience with Past Lending and Recent Initiatives. Bank lending to Venezuela
recommenced in 1989, after a 14-year hiatus (during which Venezuela's per capita income exceeded
the Bank's borrowing eligibility ceiling). The initial emphasis in 1989-90 was on supporting the new
government's ambitious economic stabilization and reform program through four quick-disbursing
loans. These loans supported the structural adjustment program, trade reform, financial sector
reform, and public enterprise reform, including privatization. Bank lending has now shifted to
investment lending, particularly in support of 5ocial and infrastructure development and poverty
alleviation. In 1990, the Bank approved the Social Development Project which focuses on primary
health and education. More recently, an agricultural sector investment loan has also been approved.
Significant project preparation efforts are under way in many sectors including the following: human
resources, transport, and water.
2.26 Poverty Alleviation. Together with the Social Development Project, the proposed project
will focus on the urban poor, who have suffered most from the economic mismanagen.-nt of the
1980s and the consequent difficult adjustments required under the macroeconomic reform program.
Also, the project would help develop ar. institutional mechanism to ensure the sustainability of the
barrio improvement program.



12
2.27 Support for Decentralization. In addition to poverty alleviation, the project will support
the government's efforts in administrative decentralization and capacity-building aimed at
strengthening municipal governments to deal, inter alia, with the needs of the unplanned, low-income
communities. The project will support this strategy by also giving attention to the need to improve
local income generation, update tax bases (notably, urban property tax), expand the use of user
charges and establish well-defined principles for full cost recovery of municipally-provided services.
Although this will be the first Bank-financed urban operation in the Venezuela, the Bank will be able
to draw on significant experience elsewhere (notably in Argentina and Brazil) to assist with the
reforms that GOV is introducing.
111. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Strategy
3.1   The project would support GOV's barrio improvement program, included in its Poverty
Alleviation Plan (see para. 1.4) under the general guidelines of the 8th Five-Year National
Development Plan. The main project objectives are to improve urban infrastructure services in low-
income neighborhoods, develop a sound foundation for sustainable urban improvement programs,
and increase municipal participation in financing and managing urban infrastructure investments.
The specific aims of the project are to:
(a)   improve living conditions in low-income barrios through the provision and
improvement of basic urban infrastructure services;
(b)   develop the planning, administrative and executive capabilities of the municipalities -
- in support of the Venezuelan government's decentralization policy -- by making
municipalities responsible for subproject execution and introducing fundamental
municipal management concepts such as project evaluation and monitoring, fiscal
responsibility, cost recovery, and maintenance; and
(c)   strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of FUNDACOMUN in order to
improve its ability to assist municipalities.
3.2   The project is modest in size (US$85.5 million, with US$40 million in Bank financing) in
comparison with urban needs. In this context, it should be considered essentially as a pilot project
that provides a quick response to urgent barrio needs, while also laying the institutional basis for
stronger municipal government. This project will provide the foundation for a comprehensive
municipal development project to finance a much larger program of urban infrastructure and barrio
improvements.



13
B. Summary Project Description
3.3   The project would finance institutional strengthening and training; civil works; and vehicles
and equipment over a five-year implementation period. The project consists of the following main
components:
(a)   Improvement of infrastructure services in low-income barrios by fmancing the
construction of basic infrastructure and purchase of equipment to extend or improve
municipal services such as water supply, sewerage, electricity, drainage, paving of
roads and pedestrian paths, and solid waste collection in selected low-income barrios;
(b)    Development of municipalities' institutional capacity through material support,
technical assistance, staff training and studies in the areas of municipal legislation,
tax administration, municipal cadastre, solid waste management, urban planning, and
preparation and evaluation of investment projects; and
(c)    Strengthening of FUNDACOMUN's institutional capacity by financing the
preparation of an organizatiopal development plan; the development of a management
information system; technical assistance for project management; policy studies and
surveys; staff training; and, vehicles and equipment.
C. Detailed Project Features'
Infrastructure Improvements (US$50.2 million)
3.4   The project's infrastructure improvements component would focus on the construction and
rehabilitation of simple works in basic infrastructure such as water supply, sewerage, and electricity.
It would also finance works in drainage and roads, and equipment for solid waste. Implementation
of related subprojects, including engineering designs and construction supervision estimated at about
US$3.0 million equivalent, would be the responsibility of participating municipalities, which would
rely mostly on private contractors (see para. 3.27). However, municipalities would be allowed to
include community in-kind contributions, usually in the form of labor, for the execution of
rudimentary construction activities, such as excavation. A preliminary investment program for the
first year of project implementation was reviewed and agreed at loan negotiations (para. 7.1). For
the following years, FUNDACOMUN would prepare, and submit for Bank approval, annual
investment programs based on investrnent proposals presented by municipalities (para. 4.3). Detailed
investment activities would be carried out in the following areas:
(a) Water Supply, Sewerage and Electricity (US$29.3 million).  In general, these
improvements would consist of small subprojects to expand infrastructure services into low-
income barrios, lacking such basic services. If a simple expansion is not feasible, solutions
All financial amounts in this section are expressed as base costs.



14
based on alternative technologies to remove physical deficiencies would be applied. It is
estimated that some 270 km of distribution lines for each of the three services (water,
sewerage, electricity) would be constructed under the project.
(b) Paving and Drainage (US$16.2 miUlion). The project would finance the paving of about
140 km of roads and pedeatrian paths, including steps, to improve accessibility to barrios;
and, the construction of retaining walls, and drainage works to protect them from natural
hazards, such as landslides and floods.
(c) Solid Waste (US$4.7 million). Because solid waste removal is considered an important
aspect of mnproving the sanitary conditions and physical environment of barrios, the project
would finance the purchase of vehicles and equipment, such as garbage containers, in order
to facilitate the provision of solid waste collection services.
Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program (MITAP, US$13.9 million)
3.5   The primary aim of MTTAP is to develop the institutional capacity of about 50 eligible
municipalities throughout Venezuela in the areas of municipal legislation, tax administration,
municipal cadastre, solid waste management, urban planning, and preparation and evaluation of
investment projects. This would be accomplished through the preparation and implementation of
Technical Assistance Plans (TAP) for each participating municipality, and training of municipal staff.
FUNDACOMUN has developed a methodology for carrying out TAPs and has applied it in a few
cases quite successfully. For the actual implementation of MTTAP, FUNDACOMUN would rely
heavily on consultants in order to take care of the work load involved.
3.6   An important aspect of the MTTAP is the support it will provide, through its local legislation
and municipal cadastre components, in regularizing land tenure in beneficiary barrios. This not only
will permit an expansion of the property tax base in participating municipalities but, most
importaiitly, secure land tenure for barrio residents which would result in considerable secondary
benefits. The technical assistance provided under the project will also be used to carry out an
assessment of the organization and administration of a representative sample of municipalities
(selected according to population size and financial capacity) and recommend appropriate institutional
models for municipal management.
FUNDACOM UN's Institutional Strengthening Program (US$4.1 million)
3.7    This program would aim at strengthening FUNDACOMUN's institutional capacity to enable
it to manage the proposed project and improve the performance level in discharging its mandated
responsibilities as GOV's national agency for community and municipal development. To help
FUNDACOMUN accomplish these goals, the project would provide financing for technical assistance
and short-term training to establish and operate an effective project management system, and to
prepare and implement an organizational development plan.



15
3.8   The technical assistance for establishing and operating a project management system would
include long-term contracts to fill key project management positions in the project management unit
(PMU), and short-term consultancies to assist FUND'ACOMUN in activities involved in the project's
implementation, such as the preparation and appraisal of infrastructure subprojects, and the
supervision and monitoring of project implementation. Because FUNDACOMUN will be responsible
for executing MTTAP, technical assistance would also be provided in the areas directly related to
MTTAP, such as municipal financial management, investment planning, municipal cadastre, land
titling, urban planning, and municipal administration.
3.9   The project would also finance the purchase of vehicles and office equipment for
FUNDACOMUN headquarters and 21 regional offices located throughout the country. Vehicles and
office equipment (including computers, software, and facsimile machines) for the regional offices
will be used for supervising the implementation of the project.
Studies (US$0.8 million)
3.10  The project would finance five special stu'` s, which would be coordinated by
FUNDACOMUN.  The studies, which are describecA  low, would focus on: (a) municipal
information system; (b) municipal finance; (c) the Ti...d National Inventory of Barrios; (d)
regularization of land tenure; and (e) evaluation of the project's impact on barrio residents. These
studies are designed to enhance the availability and reliability of information on municipalities and
barrios, evaluate the impact of selected project activities, and, thereby, improve policy formulation
and planning. Outline terms of reference for these studies were reviewed and agreed at loan
negotiations (para. 7.1). Also, at negotiations, (GOV and FUNDACOMUN agreed to discuss the
results of these studies with the Bank and prepare and implement action plans acceptable to the Bank
(para. 7.2).
3.11 Municipal Information System. This study would aim to design a system that would permit
the permanent updating and processing of municipal information, identifying the data requirements,
including its sources and periodicities, as well as potential users and their information needs. It
would also let FUNDACOMUN resume and improve its municipal surveys (Encuestas Municipales),
which are of vital importance for the design of municipal technical assistance and training activities
but, nevertheless, have not been done since 1983. This study would be completed by June 30, 1993
(para. 7.2).
3.12 Municipal Finance. The municipal finance study would aim at improving the data base of
Venezuela's municipal finance; developing a typology to classify municipalities according to their
financial situation/creditworthiness and capacity to finance urban investments; and improving the
legal and policy framework in connection with municipal finance. The study would include the
following: (a) collection of data on municipal revenues, expenditures, current indebtedness and other
relevant indicators, such as dependence on government transfers to cover current expenditures; (b)
establishment of key indicators and proposed typology to classify municipalities according to their
financial capability; (c) identification of major constraints, including organizational, legal,
administrative and managerial, which need to be addressed; (d) development of criteria for credit
eligibility and indebtedness capacity; (e) recommendations on the major areas of financial



16
management (legislation, revenue sources, cost recovery mechanisms, planning and budgeting) that
should constitute the main elements of municipal financial action plans (FAPs); (f) propose a
strategy, based on FAPs, to achieve creditworthiness for different groups of municipalities over a
one to two year period, including the specific steps needed to be taken within and outside a
municipality's sphere of competence; (g) an estimate of the dollar and manpower costs of
implementing the strategy; and (h) identification of the major players (federal, state, and others)
needed to implement the strategy, indicating the actions to be taken by each. This study would be
completed by December 31, 1994, and its results and policy implications discussed with GOV and
the Bank w!th the purpose of preparing an action plan, by March 31, 1994. and establishing a
timetable for the implementation of such action plan, which would include government policies on
municipal finance.  To this end, assurances from the Borrower were obtained during loan
negotiations (para. 7.2).
3.13 Third National Inventory of Barrios. This study would consist of several analyses of data
collected through the Third National Inventory of Barrios, which is planned for 1992. As such, it
would provide timely and reliable information on the specific features of barrios throughout
Venezuela, thus improving the information base for policy making and program design. It would
be completed by June 30, 1993 (para. 7.2), and have direct benefits for the proposed project as
updated information would be available for appraising barrio improvement proposals. This study
would also support FUNDACOMUNAs Barrio Information Analysis System (Sistema de Andlisis de
Jnfoomacidn de Barrios, SAIB) which was developed in 1987 and whose strategy and objectives are
consonant with FUNDACOMUAPs mandate. Assurances were obtained from FUNDACOMUN that
an action plan, based on the results of he study, would be presented to the Bank by September 30,
1993, and that such action plan would be implemented.
3.14 Regularization of Land Tenure. The objective of this study is twofold: first, it would aim
at determining the constraints (administrative, legal, and financial) on the development of a land
market in the barrios and recommending strategies to deal with them; second, it viould determine
the specific procedures and instruments to assist municipalities in the implementation of policies for
the regularization of land tenure. Given that land tenure is a major issue in the barrios, this study
is essential for the realization of the proposed project's objectives. The study would be completed
by March 31, 1993, and its recommendations implemented according to an action plan to be
presented by GOV to the Bank, by June 30,1993 (para. 7.2).
3.15 Evaluation of the Project's Poverty Impact. This study would aim to assess the social
benefits and costs of the proposed project to barrio residents. It would focus on the social changes,
such as population mobility and income levels, that could result from the physical improvements and
land titling schemes supported by the proposed project. This study would be based on information
gathered through household surveys in the barrios benefitting from project investments. To the
extent possible, the study would make use of the periodic household surveys (Encuesta Ampliada de
Hogares) being undertaken through the Bank's Venezuela Social Development Project (Loan No.
3270-VE). This study would be completed by June 30, 1995, and its recommendations implemented
according to an action plan to be presented by GOV to the Bank, by September 30, 1995. Also, the
results of this study would be reviewed during the project's mid-term review with the purpose of
making corrections in project design, if necessary (para. 7.2).



17
C. Criteria for Selection of Municipalities, Barrios and Investment Subprojects
3.16 Municipal eligibility criteria. Only municipalities with populations of more than 50,000,
according to the 1990 census, would be potentially eligible to participate in the project. This
criterion is based on three considerations. First, the 76 municipalities that fall into this category
contain about 80 percent of Venezuela's 8.3 inillion urban barrio dwellers. Secondly, these
municipalities are in a better financial position to participate in the project; on average, inter-
governmental transfers (Situado Constitucional) represent less than 50 percent of their total revenues
(see Annex 2). Thirdly, since municipalities with populations of more than 50,000 are required by
law (the revisions to the LORA, passed in 1989) to update their cadastres and urban development
plans, the technical and financial support offered by the project would help them to overcome
inherent institutional weaknesses and comply with the law. These municipalities could serve as
models for replication in follow-up barrio improvement programs.
3.17 Although all municipalities with populations of more than 50,000 would be eligible to
participate in the institutional strengthening component of the project, priority would be given to
those which participate in the physical investments component. In order to receive credit for
infrastructure improvement subprojects, municipalities would have to meet additional criteria, viz.:
(a)   having low-income barrios which meet the following conditions: (i) more than 50
percent of the barrio population should fall into the extreme and critical poverty
categories (see para. 1.14); (ii) lack one or more of the infrastructure improvements
financed under the project; (iii) be located on land upon which the municipality has
titling rights and whick is considered safe from land slides, floods, etc.; and (iv) have
population densities of more than 120 inhabitants per hectare;
(b)   having no overdue debt with FUNDACOMUN;
(c)   having a stable financial situation given by a balanced current account in which the
municipality's current revenues (as defined in Article 11 of the LORRI), excluding
discretionary or extraordinary transfers from the national government, are greater
than its current expenditures, including payments of interest and principal on
outstanding debt;
(d)   having the municipality's total debt service on outstanding and proposed loans at 15
percent or less of total budgeted revenues for any given year during project
implementation;
(e)   preparing barrio improvement programs (para. 4.3), according to criteria set out in
the Project Operations Manuzl (POM); and
(f)   signing a participation agreement to include, inter alia, the following commitments:
(i) adhere to the objectives of the project and the POM; (ii) implement the
recommendations of TAP to be prepared by FUNDACOMUN, especially in the areas
of billing and collecting local taxes; (iii) carry out a program to secure land tenure



18
for barrio dwellers; (iv) maintain the credit-worthiness criteria (c) and (d) above,
during the entire project implementation period; and (v) ensure that adequate
arrangements arc made for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure
investments, in accordance with the POM.
3.18  The credit-worthiness criteria in (c) and (d) would provide the conditions necessary to
enhance municipal revenues and, therefore, ensure project replicability within each participating
municipality.
3.'9  Selection of investment subprojects. The following criteria would be applied so as to
ensure cost-effective investments. To be eligible for financing, investment sub-proiects would need
to:
(a)    have an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent individually or including other
investment subprojects for the same barrio, according to the agreed method for the
economic evaluation of investment subprojects (see paras. 6.4 through 6.9);
(b)    comply with the technical norms and standards for engineering design and
construction, as defined in POM;
(c)    have the corresponding utility companies' formal commitment to operate and maintain
the infrastructure improvements resulting from project investments, especially in the
case of water supply, sewerage and electricity (see para. 4.4); and
(d)    meet agreed environmental criteria, as defined in POM.
3.20  In addition to satisfying the above criteria, water, sewerage and electricity subprojects for
any given barrio would be approved only if FUNDACOMUN finds that the overall demand for these
services is being met satisfactorily. This criterion would ensure that all barrio dwellers have access
to these basic infrastructure services and that project benefits, as best as possible, are evenly
distributed among them.
3.21   As a condition of effectiveness, FUNDACOMUN would adopt a project operations manual
(POM) which would include, inter alia, these basic criteria for selection of municipalities, barrios
and investment subprojects. Assurances have been obtained from FUNDACOMUN that the project
will be implemented in accordance with the POM, and that the POM would not be amended without
the Bank's consent (para. 7.2).
D. Project Costs
3.22   Total project costs are estimated at US$85.5 million equivalent, including base costs and
contingencies, but excluding land, salaries, duties and taxes, which are ineligible for Bank financing.
The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent would finance 46.8 percent of these total
costs. Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex 5 and summarized in Table 3.1.



19
Tabe 3.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTS'
fin US$ millions)
Foreign    Total
Lca    Foreian   Toa   Exchanae  Base Cost
A. Infrastructure and Solid Waste
A.1 Infrastructure                      28.4      17.1    45.5      37.6        65.9
A.2 Solid Waste                          0.5       4.2     4.7      90.0         6.8
Sub-total                28.8     21.3    50.2       42.5       72.7
B. Institutional Development
B.1 Municipal Training and Technical     9.7       4.2    13.9      30.2       20.2
Assistance Program
6.2 FUNDACOMUN Strengthening Program     3.1       1.0     4.1      24.2         5.9
6.3 Studies                              0.6       0.2     0.8      30.0         1.2
Sub-total                13.4      5.4    18.8       28.9       27.3
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        42.2      26.8    69.0      38.8       100.0
Physical Contingencies            4.2      2.7      6.9
Price Contingencies               5.9      3.7      9.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     52.3      33.2    85.5
JI Net of taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
3.23       Cost estimates are based on projected January 1992 prices and reflect recent
quotations and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to the
base cost of capital items. Price contingencies, amounting to US$9.6 million, or about 14 percent
of total base costs, have been estimated using annual rates of inflation consistent with the latest
Bank projections. Cost estimates are expressed in US dollars because of the local currency's
uncertain inflation rate and exchange rate policy during the implementation period. For the total
project, direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at about US$33.2 million
including contingencies. Based on a detailed analysis of expenditures of similar projects in the
region, the foreign exchange component for the major categories was estimated as follows: (a)
approximately 42 percent for physical investments, including project design and supervision; and
(b) approximately 29 percent for institutional development.



20
E. Financing
3.24      Out of the total estimated project costs of about US$85.5 million, the Bank would
provide a loan of US$40 million, which would cover 46.8 percent of total project costs. The
proposed loan amount would finance 100 percent of the project's total foreign exchange costs
estimated at about US$33.2 million, as well as US$6.8 million equivalent of the project's total
local costs, estimated at about US$52.3 million equivalent. With counterpart funding provided
by GOV and participating municipalities, the project's financing plan would be the following:
Tabe 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN BY AGENCY!'
(in US$ millions)
Component                         Bank   GOV    Municipal   Total     Bank
Govt.             Share
A. Infrastruct/Solid Waste        16.9   37.4      8.1      62.4    27.0%
B. Inst. Development              23.1    0.0      0.0      23.1    100.0%
TOTAL               40.0   37.4      8.1      85.5    46.3%
Share of Total Financing         46.8%   43.7%     9.4%    100.0%
| Totals may not add up due to rounding
3.25  The full proeeeds of the Bank loan and GOV counterpart funds would be transferred to
FUNDACOMUN, the project's executing agency, through annual budgetary allocations. The
Bank would spread its financing over all project components. It would finance infrastructure
improvements, through subloans to participating municipalities, as well as vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance, training, and studies. Special financing arrangements for infrastructure
improvement subprojects are essential for achieving broad equivalence of financing terms
between the proposed project and GOV's Social Infrastructure Investment Program (PROINSOL),
being implemented by MINAM through the Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment (FONVIS)
with IDB financing. These arrangements are discussed in Chapter 5.
F. Procurement
3.26 Bank procurement guidelines will be followed for the proposed project. The Venezuelan
Procurement Law (Ley de Licitaciones, passed in August 1990) gives an explicit waiver to all
contracts (civil works, purchase of goods, and services) relating to prqjects partially or entirely
financed by international financing agencies and guarantees the application of their respective
procurement regulations or guidelines in such cases. Therefore, the use of Bank procurement
guidelines under the proposed project would not conflict with local procurement regulations.



21
Civil works under the project would represent about 57 percent of the total project costs;
equipment and materials, about 16 percent; and consultant services, including studies, technical
assistance, training, engineering designs and supervision, about 26 percent.
3.27 Civil Works. Contracts for works would be awarded according to local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, and nationally advertised to ensure adequate
competition. Foreign bidders would be allowcd to participate in the bids. Works would be
packaged by participating municipalities in barrio contacts and, to the extent practicable, would
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more thA US$500,000 equivalent each. Because of
the dispersed and remote location of the infrastructure works to be built, and because average
contract amounts are expected to be below US$1.0 million, civil works contracts would not be
suitable for procurement through international competitive bidding (ICB). In the aggregate,
contracts for civil works awarded on the basis of LCB procedures are expected to amount to
approximately US$45.8 million equivalent (about 54 percent of total project costs). Up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.9 million, works estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent
may be executed by force account of the municipality. All such works would be financed out of
project counterpart funds and, therefore, would not be eligible for Bank financing.
3.28  Equipment. The total cost of equipment (including vehicles) is estimated at about
US$9.6 million equivalent, including contingencies, of which about US$4.9 million would be
procured through ICB procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines, and the remainder
through LCB or local shopping (by inviting at least three quotations). Contracts estimated to cost
more than US$200,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis of ICB. Where ICB
procedures are used, goods manufactured locally would be given, for purposes of bid evaluation,
a preference margin in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$200,000 or less, but more than the equivalent of US$25,000, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$4.0 million, may be awarded in accordance with LCB
procedures nationally advertised and satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$25,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$700,000 may be
procured under local/international shopping acceptable to the Bank.
3.29  Construction Materials. Construction materials to support civil works executed by force
account under the project are estimated to cost about US$4.2 million equivalent. To avoid
having only a few municipalities make use of this allowance, the amounts allocated for civil
works to be executed through force account, including the cost of construction materials should
not exceed 10 percent of the total infrastructure investment costs in each participating
municipality on an annual basis. Construction materials would be procured according to
procedures defined in the POM and financed entirely out of project counterpart funds; therefore,
no Bank loan proceeds would be used for this purpose. The necessary skills and labor would be
provided by the community, with the municipality employing engineers or engineering firms to
supervise civil works under the project. Assurances were obtained from FUNDACOMUN that no
annual plan presented by a municipality would be approved if such plan provides for civil works
to be erecuted through force account, including the cost of construction materials, in an amount
exceeding 10 percent of the cost of the infrastructure investments in the plan (para. 4.5).



22
3.30 Consulting Services. Consulting services will be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants. In the aggregate, these services (including those for
engineering design and construction supervision of infrastructure subproiects) are estmated to
amount to approximately US$23 million equivalent. Foreign consultants would not be subject to
prior registration as a condition of their participation in the selection process. Registration would
be a pre-condition, not of selection, but of contr.r-ting of consulting services. Consulting
services for engineering design and construction supervision of infrastructure subprojects,
estimated at 7 percent of total works' cost, would be procured according to procedures to be
defined in the POM and financed out of municipal counterpart funds; therefore, no Bank loan
proceeds would be allocated for such services. Low-value consulting services costing US$25,000
equivalent or less would be contracted according to local procedures on the basis of standard
terms of reference and conditions of employment approved by the Bank.
3.31 All the above arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3, and FUNDACOMUN would
ensure that these arrangements as well as procurement procedures compatible with Bank
guidelines are adequately reflected in the POM. During negotiations, agreement would be
reached on the above procurement arrangements and use of standard bidding documents (para.
7.2).
3.32 Procurement Review. All bidding packages procured under ICB, all civil works
contracts estimated at US$500,000 equivalent or more, goods contracts estimated at US$200,000
equivalent or more, and consultant contracts valued above US$25,000 equivalent would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation, and contract
awards. The above review process would cover more than 50 percent of the works, goods and
consulting services contracts (see Annex 10). All contracts below these thresholds would be
subject to the PMU's prior review and to the Bank's post review by sampling (one in four
contracts). However, in order to ensure that adequate procurement procedures are followed, the
Bank will review and approve, irrespective of the amount, the first two contracts under LCB for
goods and works. Given the relatively large number of municipalities involved in the execution
of physical investments, the PMU's prior review of advertising, bid evaluation, and contract
awards related to those investments is essential to ensure that the agreed procurement process is
properly carried out. Also, to ensure that all procurement under the project is carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines, the POM should spell out the detailed procewiares and contain
standard bidding documents that would be used in the procurement of civil works, goods, and
services. If the Bank determines in the review by sampling that any procurement is inconsistent
with agreed procedures, then no expenditures for such items would be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan, and the Bank may decide to increase the prior review level for procurement
other than ICB.
3.33 FUNDACOMUN's capability to manage the procurement process was reviewed during
project appraisal and found acceptable. Although it does not have previous experience in Bank-
fmanced procurement, FUNDACOMUN has significant experience in procurement of civil works
and goods on the basis of LCB. FUNDACOMUN will make two engineers with experience in
procurement fully responsible for reviewing all LCB procurement documentation related to the
project. If Bank post-review procedures demonstrate the need for improving FUNDACOMUN's
capability to manage the procurement process, then the Bank may require FUNDACOMUN to use



23
funds allocated under the project's institutional development component to train its staff and hire
the services of experienced procurement specialists.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTSW
lin US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Pro*ect Elements                          ICB        LCB     OTHER    N.B.F.       TOTAL
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1 Infrastructure                      0.0       45.8       0.0       2.9        48.7
(0.0)     (13.7)    (0.0)     (0.0)      (13.7)
2. GOODS
2.1 Solid Waste Equip.                  2.3        3.5       0.0       0.0         5.8
(2.3)     (0.9)     (0.0)     (0.0)       (3.2)
2.2 Vehicles/Equipament                 0.5        0.5      0.2k'      0.0         1.2
(0.5)     (0.5)     (0.2)     (0.0)       (1.2)
2.3 Micro-computers                     2.1        0.0      0.5k'      0.0         2.6
(2.1)     (0.0)     (0.5)     (0.0)       (2.6)
2.4 Construction Materials              0.0        0.0       0.0       4.2         4.2
(0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)       (0.0)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1 Training                            0.0        0.0       2.0a'     0.0         2.0
(0.0)     (0.0)     (2.0)     (0.0)       (2.0)
3.2 Technical Assistance (PATI)/        0.0        0.0      16.3'      0.0        16.3
PMU/Inst. Dev. Plan/MIS             (0.0)      (0.0)    (16.3)    (0.0)       (16.3)
3.3 Studies                             0.0        0.0       1.02'     0.0         1.0
(0.0)     (0.0)     (1.0)     (0.0)       (1.0)
3.4 Subproject Design and Supervision   0.0        0.0       0.0       3.7         3.7
(0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)       (0.0)
TOTAL                              4.9       49.8      20.0      10.8       85.5
(4.9)     (15.1)    (20.0)    (0.0)      (40.0)
2d All amounts include contingencies. Numbers in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F. = Not Bank Financed.
2' Local/international shopping
c, Services to be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



24
G. Disbursements
3.34  For withdrawal of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, the following categories and
disbursement percentage are proposed:
(a)   for eligible civil works, 30 percent against certified receipts related to approved
contracts;
(b)   for equipment related to infrastructuire investments, 27 percent of local
expenditures and 100 percent of foreign experditures;
(c)   for equipment and vehicles related to institutional development, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures; 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
goods; and 90 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(d)   for consulting and auditing services, 100 percent of local and foreign eligible
expenditures.
3.35  In order to expedite project execution, a special acccunt would be established at the
Central Bank, with an initial deposit of US$2.5 million, corresponding to about four months of
project expenditures. Disbursement requests for expenditures under contracts requiring the
Bank's prior review would be fully documented. All disbursements for expenditures under
contracts below the Bank's prior review thresholds would be made under the statement of
expenditure (SOE) procedure prepared and certified by the PMU. SOEs would present certified
expenditures by eligible entity (municipality and FUNDACOMUN) with a categorization of
outlays for civil works, consulting services and goods. Documentation for these expenditures
would be retained by the PMU for periodic inspection by Bank staff and external auditors. The
PMU would maintain adequate records of municipal project expenditures, as well as those
relating to the institutional development component, and would prepare consolidated SOEs for
periodic transmittal to the Bank. To encourage and reward the initiative for rapid and effective
institutional support for project implementation, the loan would include retroactive financing of
up to US$4 million for all eligible expenditures with respect to all project components made in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines after January 1, 1992.
3.36  The estimated disbursement schedule presented in Annex 9 envisages a disbursement
profile of approximately five and a half years. Assuming expenditures are eligible for retroactive
financing beginning in January 1992 and loan effectiveness is in September 1992, the project's
completion date would be June 30, 1997, and the closing date would be December 31, 1997. To
be eligible for financing, subloans must be approved by the Bank and the expenditures related to
the respective subloans must have not been made earlier than ninety days prior to the date the
Bank receives the petition for the approval of the respective subloans. Subloans will not finance
transfer of assets, land acquisition, construction materials in connection with force account, and
services for engineering design and construction supervision. The final date for receiving
subloan applications would be December 31, 1996. The small size of the project is the
justification for a disbursement schedule shorter than the regional profile of 7 years.



25
H. Accounts and Audits
3.37 FUNDACOMUN would agree to establish and maintain separate project accounts. The
special account and the project accounts in FUNDACOMUN and in each participating
municipality would be audited by external, independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. For the
municipalities and FUNDACOMUN, an annual audit of the financial statements of the project
accounts, including a separate opinion on withdrawal applications made on the basis of SOEs,
would be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30 of each year. In addition,
FUNDACOMUN would provide to the Bank, by March 31 of each year, annual performance
audits carried out by external auditors (see below). These performance audits would provide
evaluations of the compliance by FUNDACOMUN, the Financial Agent and all participating
municipalities with all legal agreements related to the project, including provisions of the POM.
FUNDACOMUN would provide an overall progress report to the Bank on a semi-annual basis, by
January 31 and August 31 of each year. Audit of the special account would be done by
experienced independent external auditors, consistent with the Bank's guidelines for such audits
(para. 7.2).
3.38  Special, annual performance audits are essential to project design in order to make
effective Bank supervision manageable in the face of a large number of sub-projects spread over
a relatively large geographical area and within numerous political and administrative jurisdictions.
Because of the demanding audit requirements of the project, and of the need to assure timely
compliance with audit agreements and to minimize risks of interruptions of disbursements through
SOE procedures, the Bank would finance 100 percent of audit expenditures when these are
incurred by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. If the financial and performance audits
identify significant irregularities in any municipality, then the POM would provide that, as a
condition of receiving project funding for municipal investments in the subsequent audit period,
FUNDACOMUN would provide technical assistance focused on eliminating the observed
irregularities. And, if irregularities persist for another audit period, the municipality may be
declared ineligible for subsequent project financing. This, however, would not limit the use of
other remedies by the Bank.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.1    Direct responsibility for project implementation, supervision and monitoring would rest
with FUNDACOMUN, the Borrower's project implementing agency. For purposes of making
subloans to eligible municipalities for infrastructure investments, FUNDACOMUN would establish
a trust fund (fideiconmiso) with a financial agent which would make subloans to eligible
municipalities and perform all actions related to the collection of such subloans. As a condition
of effectiveness, FUNDACOMUN would sign a fiduciary agreement with a financial agent
acceptable to the Bank. In order to discharge its responsibilities, FUNDACOMUN would form a



26
project management unit (PMU) under the office of its President. This would ensure that, in
addition to having adequate capacity to perform directly all planning, programming, supervision
and reporting duties related to project implementation, the PMU would have sufficient authority
to coordinate all units within FUNDACOMUN and other agencies involved in the project. The
PMU would be responsible for carrying out all project legal agreements, including those with the
Bank, the central government and municipalities, and guidelines for execution of all these
agreements would be included in the POM. The PMU also would be responsible for reviewing
and consolidating annual implementation plans for technical assistance and training under
FUNDACOMUN's Institutional Strengthening Program, as well as for MTTAP. PMU's
organization and staffing satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 7.3). At negotiations, FUNDACOMUN provided assurances that the PMU's team wou;
be maintained throughout the project period, with functions, structure and staffing acceptable to
the Bank (para. 7.2).
B. Implementation of Project Components
4.2   Implementation Schedule. The project would be implemented over a period of
approximately five years. The estimated project implementation schedule (Annex 6) would serve
as a basis for programming project implementation and would be updated annually by
FUNDACOMUN as part of the exercise for preparing annual project implementation plans (PIPs,
see para. 4.10). Annual reviews covering both the implementation of project components and
PIPs would be conducted jointly by the Bank and GOV not later than December 31 each year.
By December 31, 1995, a comprehensive mid-term review would take place to examine progress
made, assess the relevance of all project objectives and actions, and recommend appropriate
revisions, as needed (para 4.11). During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the annual
and mid-term reviews (para. 7.2).
4.3   Infrastructure Improvements. Actual execution of infrastructure improvement
investments would be undertaken by municipalities, according to rules and procedures established
in the POM and carried out by the PMU. For this purpose, FUNDACOMUN and the Financial
Agent would enter into participation and subproject agreements and subloan agreements,
respectively, with eligible municipalities. Participation agreements would define the participation
of eligible municipalities in the project and, among other provisions, commit the municipality to:
(i) implement the recommendations of TAP to be prepared by FUNDACOMUV; (ii) carry out a
program to secure land tenure for barrio dwellers; and (iii) maintain the credit-worthiness criteria
defined in this report (see para. 3.17). Subproject agreements would define the specific
commitments related to the relevant infrastructure investments, including a definition of the
financing shares of the parties involved. A subproject agreement would not become effective
until the corresponding subloan agreement has been signed between the financial agent and the
municipality. Subloan agreements would describe the financial terms and conditions of subloans
made by the financial agent to eligible municipalities for the relevant infrast.ucture investments.
Standard forms of each of these agreements will be part of the POM. Municipalities would
propose annual or multi-year investment programs to FUNDACOMUN for inclusion in the PIP
for the subsequent ye?r. This would take place through a structured process of consultation



27
between the participating municipalities and FUNDACOMUN on a rolling, annual basis. Annual
PIPs (including physical investments, as well as technical assistance and training programs), as
consolidated and proposed by FUNDACOMUN, would be reviewed by the Bank. As a condition
of disbursement, no withdrawals would be made (i) for expenditures related to infrastructure
investments unless participation and subproject agreements between FUNDACOMUN and an
eligible municipality, and subloan agreements between the Financial Agent and the eligible
municipality in question have been signed; and (ii) for expenditures related to technical assistance
and training for the municipalities unless a participation agreement between FUNDACOMUN and
an eligible municipality has been signed. Also, only those expenditures included in subloans or
annual project implementation plans approved by the Bank would be eligible for financing (para.
7.4).
4.4    As this would be the first operation of this kind in Venezuela, and because
implementation of the project will require the participation of several sectoral agencies, special
coordinating arrangements would need to be established. These arrangements would ensure that
necessary inputs from different sectoral agencies for the successful implementation of the project
are secured. For example, the Ministry of Finance and the Comptroller General's Office would
collaborate in verifying municipal credit-worthiness. Utility companies would be asked to: (i)
confirm that investment proposals fit in with their plans; (ii) verify the proper use of municipal
design standards for physical works' proposals; and (iii) certify the proper execution of the
works. These inputs are not only necessary to ensure that subprojects are carried out in a cost-
effective manner but, most importantly, to ensure that the assets resulting from these investments
are protected and maintained. This would be achieved by transferring these works on completion
through a concession agreement with the corresponding utility company for their operation and
maintenance. The municipality would be required to sign a provisional agreement with the utility
company in advance, which would become a condition for approval of the investment subproject
by FUNDACOMUN. All of these arrangements will be specified in the POM.
4.5   Supervision of each subproject would be carried out by the municipalities, assisted by
consultants or by qualified staff of a utility company, when appropriate, and under the overall
supervision and control of FUNDACOMUN. Specific guidelines for project supervision would be
included in the POM. In order to carry out the overall supervision and control of subprojects,
FUNDACOMUN would rely on qualified staff of its Directorate of Infrastructure and Equipment,
and state directorates. The latter would play an important role in the overall supervision and
control of subproject implementation, since they have offices in all states and are relatively close
to subproject sites. To supplement its staff resources, FUNDACOMUN would be assisted by
consultants financed under the loan. Before hiring these consultants, FUNDACOMUN would
submit their termns of reference for Bank approval. Also, in order to provide FUNDACOMUN
with adequate means to carry out its responsibilities, the project will finance the acquisition of
vehicles for supervision of subproject sites. Annual performance audits (see para. 3.38) would
indicate whether the level of supervision is adequate and make recommendations for necessary
improvements. The project will require more than customary supervision by the Bank because of
FUNDACOMUN's lack of experience witn Bank-financed projects and its presently weak project
management capability, coupled with the large number of relatively small municipal activities,
and the emphasis of the project on institutional development.



28
4.6    Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program. This component would be
implemented by FUNDACOMUN's Directorate of Municipal Development with the assistance of
consultants. FUDECO (Fundacidn para el Desarrollo de la Regl6n Centro-Occldenta), a well
established organization in the area of municipal development, would be a major source of
consulting services that FUNDACOMUN would contract for the implementation of MTTAP.
Technical specialists of the Directorate of Municipal Development would supervise the
implementation of MTTAP and submit monthly progress reports to PMU, which would control
disbursement of project funds for expenditures related to this program.
4.7   FUNDACOMUN's Institutional Strengthening Program. The technical assistance for
establishing and operating the project management system for PMU as well as all other activities
relating to project management, such as hiring of long and short-term consultants to assist PMU
canry out its functions, would be under the control of the Director of PMU. The preparation and
imDlementation of FUNDACOMUN's organizational development plan and management
information system would be under the control of the Director of Planning. The Director of
Pianning would hire, through a consulting services contract to be financed under the project, a
high-level technical specialist to provide advice on related matters and supervise the
implementation of this program. Monthly progress reports would be sent to PMU, which would
control disbursement of project funds for expenditures related to this component.
4.8   Studies. Four out of the five studies to be financed under the proposed project would be
contracted out; only the study on the Third National Inventory of Barrios would be carried out by
FUNDACOMUN, given that the SAIB methodology (see para. 3.13) was developed by in-house
specialists who will participate in the study. In this case, the proposed project would finance
special services needed to complete the study and make its results available to interested parties.
For the other studies, FUNDACOMUN would submit for Bank review the finalized terms of
reference for each study along with a shortlist of consultants, in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines for consulting services. PMU would supervise the execution of all
studies with the help of in-house or external specialists.
C. Status of Project Preparation
4.9   During the appraisal of the proposed project, the Bank reviewed the investment plans for
infrastructure improvements in the barrios of three municipalities that would participate in the
first year of project implementation (see Annex 3 for a summary of first-year municipal
investment programs). In addition to these municipal investment plans, FUNDACOMUN has
prepared a draft Project Operations Manual (POM). FUNDACOMUN's formal acceptance of the
POM and a project implementation plan (PIP) for the first year, which would include the
municipal investment programs, approved by dhe Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 7.3). Execution of acceptable participation and subproject agreements between
FUNDACOMUN and at least three municipalities participating in the first year of project
implementation, and subloan agreements between the Financial Agent and the -hree municipalities
in question would be an additional condition of loan effectiveness (para. 7.3).



29
D. Annual Plans, Mid-Term Review, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10 Annual Project Implementation Plans. FUNDACOMUN would prepare annual project
implementation plans (PIPs) that would include information on: (a) consolidated municipal
investment programs for infrastructure improvements in the barrios; (b) measures to strengthen
FUNDACOMUN management, including implementation of training activities and management
information systems; and (c) proposed technical assistance plans for municipalities and the
implementation of such plans. As noted above, a project's first year PIP satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. To ensure that future annual PIPs are prepared in
time, a computerized project management system would be developed that would tie in with the
project accounting, procurement, reporting and monitoring systems. At negotiations, agreement
was obtained from FUNDACOMUN that annual PIPs will be submitted to the Bank for review not
later than December 1 of the preceding year (para. 7.2).
4.11   Mid-Term Review. Considerable flexibility has been built into the project because of the
demand-driven nature of the infrastructure improvements component and the fact that many
activities involved in the institutional strengthening of FUNDACOMUN will be known only after
the organizational development plan (para. 3.7) is finalized. For that reason, a comprehensive
mid-term review of project implementation is planned to be carried out jointly with GOV and
FUNDACOMUN not later than December 31, 1995; the review would also serve as a basis for
examining progress in the implementation of the action plans based on the studies financed under
the project, especially the municipal finance study (para. 3.12); and for making decisions on the
processing of a follow-up project (para. 7.2).
4.12 Monitoring and Reporting. To provide managers with timely information on the
progress of project implementation, FUNDACOMUN would hire a consultant by September 30,
1992, to design a monitoring and evaluation system and train FUNDACOMUN staff to implement
it by December 31, 1992, at which time the system should be operational. The system would:
(a) identify institutional, technical and financial bottlenecks; (b) support annual planning and
adjustment; (c) compare implementation of each component against the original design; and (d)
evaluate results of the operation. Outline terms of reference for the project monitoring system
are presented in Annex 7. FUNDACOMUN would assign qualified local staff to help PMU
establish the monitoring and evaluation system. Semi-annual progress reports to be finalized by
January 31 and August 31 of each year, would be reviewed by FUNDACOMUN's board and sent
to the Bank. The format of the progress reports would be discussed in detail during the first
Bank supervision mission. The project supervision plan and Bank supervision input into key
activities are presented in Annex 8. Agreement on the above was obtained at loan negotiations
(para. 7.2).



30
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Municipal Finances
5.1    One of the project's primary objectives is the improvement of the financial situation of
participating municipalities, to enable them to increase their portion of own-source revenues.
This objective would aim to: (i) enable municipalities to more fully meet their increased
expenditure responsibilities under decentralization; and (ii) decrease their reliance on federal
government sUuado transfers (which depend in large part on the fluctuating international price of
petroleum). Participation in the MTTAP, which is a pre-requisite for infrastructure investments
under the project, assures that all participating municipalities would be strengthened financially
through their involvement. The major impact of the MTTAP on municipal finances will be
through increased property tax revenues as a result of updating of cadastral lists throughout the
municipalities. This would inclh_, not only the addition of new, previously unregistered
property, but also a systematic revaluation of existing outdated property values. Also included in
the component would be improvements in municipalities' billing and collection procedures,
including adjustments for inflation, and late-payment fees. Estimates based on experience with
similar projects in Latin America have shown such cadastre improvements increase property tax
revenues significanitly, often more than doubling municipalities' total own-source revenues.
Under the proposed project, two of the four municipalities to be included in the first year
program have property tax revenues representing just one percent of total revenues (see Annex
2). Even a doubling of this small amount will enable these municipalities to comfortably meet
the projected debt service obligations associated with infrastructure investments under the project
(see below).
5.2   The infrastructure component will complement these gains in cadastral list improvements,
as infrastructure improvements in the barrios will further increase p,operty values, and as a
result, property tax revenues. The training and administrative modernization components of the
MTTAP should also result in improvements in the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of municipal
administration.
5.3    With this project, Venezuelan municipalities, for the first time, will borrow funds on a
large scale for capital investments. The borrowing limits, terms and conditions (see paras.3.17
and 5.4 through 5.6) have been based on an analysis of the capacity of the target group of 76
municipalities to meet repayment obligations while maintaining sound financial management. On
the basis of this analysis it was verified that a maximum debt service limit of 15 percent of total
revenues would enable the municipalities to leverage their resources and make signifcant
improvements in infrastructure services, while maintaining healthy debt service coverage and
current revenue-to-current expenditure ratios. Terms and conditions of the subloans have been
based on a reasonable period for partial cost-recovery of such investments and the expected
ability of the municipalities to repay this debt, and have been tested extensively through
sensitivity analysis using various assumptions regarding municipal revenue and expenditures.
The minimum financial conditions for entry into the program (see para. 3.17 (c)), combined with
the borrowing limit, will ensure the financial health of participating municipalities is maintained.
The additional requirement that municipalities increase, through the MTrAP component, their



31
annual own-source revenues by at least the amount of their annual debt service incurred under the
project (see para. 6.3) further ensures municipal financial health and the sustainability of the
barrio improvement program.
B. Financing Arrangements for Infrastructure Improvement Subprojects
5.4    Under the proposed project an attempt has been made to achieve broad equivalence of
financing terms for infrastructure investments with those of GOV's Social Infrastructure
Investment Program (PROINSOL, see para. 3.25).2 Under PROINSOL, municipal and state
governments are required to provide counterpart funds equivalent to 40 percent of total
investment costs, while the remaining 60 percent is funded by the proceeds of an IDB loan to
GOV to be transferred to participating local governments as grants. Under the proposed project,
the financing terms for infrastructure improvement subprojects would be the following: (i) GOV
would provide 60 percent of funds (from general revenues) which would be given to
municipalities as grants; (ii) Bank loan proceeds would provide another 27 percent which would
be made available to participating municipalities in the form of subloans (see below); and (iii)
municipalities would contribute the remaining 13 percent from their own revenues. This would
result, as under the PROINSOL program, in GOV contributions of 60 percent and local
contributions of 40 percent of the investment costs (although under the proposed project the latter
would be partially own resources and partially borrowing). Broad equivalence of financing terms
between the two projects ensures consistency across MINFAM's programs for urban
infrastructure.
5.5    About US$16.9 million, representing approximately 43 percent of Bank loan proceeds,
would be on-lent through subloans to participating municipalities for eligible infrastructure
investments. The remainder of the Bank loan proceeds would finance 100 percent of the
project's institutional development component. Subloans would be denominated in local currency
(bolivars), lent at an interest rate equivalent to 85 percent of the average non-preferential lending
rate of the six largest commercial banks (the "reference rate"), determined monthly by the
Central Bank of Venezuela (CBV). GOV would assume all foreign exchange and interest rate
risks asso.,ated with the Bank loan. Subloans would be repaid over a ten year period, including
three years of grace.
5.6    As noted, the onlending rate to municipalities would be 85 percent of the reference rate.
The reference rate was developed under the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Loan No.
3224-VE), and at the time of appraisal was about 12 percent per annum in real terms. The
proposed onlending rate of 85 percent of this rate (or about 9 percent per annum in real terms),
while preferential, would nevertheless be positive, thereby ensuring project sustainability and
replicability. Moreover, it reverses a major distortion in municipal financing (whereby the
national government previously provided loans through FUNDACOMUN to municipalities at 4
2/ Although PROiNSOL was conceived as a program for investments in the social sectors (basica11y, health and education),
it will also finance urban infrastructure investments for slum upgrading as does the proposed project.



32
percent nominal rates) and is a transitional measure to *^;.y non-preferential rates, consistent with
the financial sector reform program being supported b) ilie FSAL. It should also be noted that
the proposed onlending rate exceeds the current cost of borr'wing for the national government,
as measured by the current yields on outstanding domestic bonds.
5.7    The project's municipal subloans would be administerc..l by a Financial Agent,
satisfactory to the Bank, with which FUNDACOMUN woulc establish a trust fund (fideicomiso),
under an agreement to be finalized as a condition of loan efLectiveness (para. 7.3). The financial
agent should have a network of branches enabling it to be present in most, if not all, participating
municipalities so that it may hold the municipalities' project accounts in addition to
FUNDACOMUN's central project account. A spread not to exced 2 percent per annum would
be paid to the financial agent to cover the costs of administration of the fund and recuperation of
payments (to be included within the established rate discussed above).
C. Cost Recovery
5.8    After three decades of abundant oil revenues, Venezuelans have grown accustomed to the
provision of subsidized public services. With the onset of economic crisis in 1986, however, the
paradigm of free pub!ic service began to be questioned. Today, there is a greater acceptance that
services must be paid for, but there has been little experience of this in practice as far as urban
infrastructure is concerned.
5.9    The project fully endorses the principle of cost recovery and would represent the first
attempt to introduce this principle at the national level by instituting on-lending operations to
municipalities. Given the country's tradition of subsidized delivery, and recent uncertainty in
financial markets (high and variable real interest rates), full cost recovery in a first stage would
be an unattainable objective. However, the majority of Bank funds, representing 27 percent of
infrastructure investments, would be recovered at the proposed preferential rate, as a first step
towards eventual full cost-recovery.
5.10   At the local level, residents directly benefiting from project investments in revenue-
earning services, such as water and electricity, would contribute through tariffs charged for these
services. Because the tariff structure and level for these services is currently inadequate to
recover full costs, particularly in the barrios where minimum usage tariffs are in effect, such
payments are expected to only partly meet costs at this stage. Installation of services in most
barrios, however, will regularize previously clandestine service (through illegal connections), and
thus the tariffs paid will represent a real financial gain. For non-revenue earning improvements
such as paving and street lighting, partial cost recovery would be effected through payment of
local taxes for the first time following the regularization of land tenure, and also increased land
values due to infrastructure improvements.
5.11  As the first operation of its kind in Venezuela, this project aims to establish a precedent
for municipal borrowing to finance infrastructure services. This project's objectives are,
however, consistent with the policy framework established under the FSAL, and lay essential



33
groundwork for more ambitious policy goals under subsequent operations, which should aim at
increasing cost-recovery targets and eventually broadening access of r.junicipal credit.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1   The project would be the first step towards improving the legal, financial and institutional
framework to tackle the country's urban infrastructure deficiencies in low-income neighborhoods
effectively. The technical assistance offered to municipalities under the Municipal Training and
Technical Assistance Program would improve their technical and financial capability to manage
local urban infrastructure services autonomously and in a more sustainable fashion. In addidon,
municipal decision-makers would become more aware of key financial issues and what needs to
be done about them.
6.2   Project investments will improve the environmental and sanitary conditions for an
estimated 230,000 low-income inhabitants of barrios in Venezuelan cities. Not all benefits can be
quantified, but some can be assessed quantitatively. Past experience has shown that these
improvements have doubled or tripled urban land values, owing to strong demand for serviced
urban land accessible to low-income families. This increased land value represents the society's
valuation of the benefits generated by the project's investments. For the economic evaluation of
the project, a benefit stream is generated by capitalizing the land value increase over a fifteen
year period. Economic costs include all investment costs (minus taxes, which are negligible) plus
operating and maintenance costs.
6.3   Financial benefits to municipalities arise from the improvement that the project will bring
to municipal finance and administration. For the frst time in Venezuela, municipalities will
borrow to invest for basic urban infrastructure. In the past, central government grant funding has
been the traditional method of financing such operations. Through subloan agreements with
FUNDACOMUN, municipalities will have to service a debt corresponding to 27 percent of the
total cost of the project's physical investments, and will undertake to increase their own revenues
by an amount necessary to cover the necessary annual amortization and interest payments. The
project will thus introduce the principle and, more importantly, the practice of cost recovery to
municipalities in Venezuela. Municipalities will thus begin to rationalize their finances (with
technical assistance support provided under the project) in order to meet their financial
commitments. Also, a study on municipal fnance (para. 3.12) will be carried out under the
project to determine the municipal governments' capacity to increase their participation ir
financing urban development projects.



34
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests
6.4   For the purposes of the economic evaluation of the investments proposed under the
project, increased land values directly attributable to the investments (excluding those derived
from extraneous improvenments, such as a new major highway access not financed by the project)
constitute the economic benefits deriving from the project. Inquiries in the barrios of Caracas
have confirmed the existence of an active, but usually informal, real estate market in serviced and
un-serviced lots. From past experience, FUNDACOMUN learned that substantial gains in land
values followed upgrading of low-income barrios and has set up a system to monitor this effect
under the project. Moreover, local residents themselves are usually well informed about plot
market values, such as the ones that will be used for the economic analysis of the project. For
each barrio proposed for upgrading under the project, data on the difference between the value of
the improved land and its pre-project unimproved value will be collected empirically to serve as a
measure of the economic benefit of the project. The majority of original barrio residents are
themselves likely to appropriate these benefits by remaining in the barrio after improvement, a
trend that has been confirmed from past experience where there is scant evidence of mass sell-
outs by poor beneficiaries following such improvements.
6.5    As part of their preparation of subprojects to be presented for financing under the project,
municipalities will collect on-site data on the current land values of each of the barrios they
propose to improve. As estimates for the value of the land after its improvement, municipalities
will collect further data on land values from other barrios which are similar in all respects,
notably, population density and location, to the one to be improved. Through the project,
FUNDACOMUN will require that only data on market values, as opposed to officially registered
values in local cadasters which may be out of date, be used. Initially, through lack of experience
with this approach, some measurement errors may occur, but these risks are expected to diminish
with experience and as FUNDACOMUN, through evaluating proposals from municipalities, builds
up a solid data base of urban land (market) values throughout Venezuela.
6.6   In order for such a market value increase to be considered an economic benefit derived
from the project, the gains must be potentially tradeable, even if the large majority of
beneficiaries decide to remain in place and not trade in their gain. Since cash payment for large
capital gains (relative to income) is unlikely, the total increase in land value, for the purpose of
the analysis, is capitalized over a fifteen year period at an annual interest rate of 10 percent (net
of inflation), conservative norms by the current standards of real estate finance in Venezuela. If
a higher interest rate were chosen, the benefits would be correspondingly higher. Thus a lump
sum benefit is converted into a fifteen year benefit stream.
6.7    Costs are those estimated for on-site water, sewerage, paving and electricity based on
preliminary engineering designs reviewed plus those for annual maintenance estimated at 4
percent of total costs per annum. Given the low incidence of taxation upon these inputs in
Venezuela, economic costs are assumed to be equal to financial costs.
6.8    During project start-up, the economic evaluation of sub-projects will be undertaken by
FUANDACOMUN, but the knowledge of this approach and the technique developed will be
gradually transferred to the municipalities during the course of the project. The technique,



35
developed jointly with Bank missions, has been made user friendly and some twelve simple
instructions elaborated to guide its users. Its data requirements are very limited, allowing it to be
used to evaluate each and every operation to be undertaken in the barrios under the project. The
model uses a simple spreadsheet program, requiring only a kind of micro-computer widely
available in Venezuela.
6.9   For all investments in barrio improvement under the project, it was agreed that the
economic rate of return must be at least 12 percent, including the cases of sensitivity analyses
where the impact of possible cost overruns of 20 percent or a 20 percent fall in benefits, upon the
economic rate of return of the investment is tested. An evaluation of subprojects in eight barrios
representing almost 10 percent of total investmeii,s foreseen under the project demonstrated that
the economic rate of return on the investments was 21.8 percent. Sensitivity analyses
demonstrated that, if costs rise by 20 percent, the rate of return falls to 14.6 percent. If benefits
fall by 20 percent, the rate of return falls to 13.8 percent. This demonstrates the economic
justification of the project, even in adverse circumstances of unexpected cost increases or falling
benefits.
6.10  Given that land values are crucial in determining the feasibility of projects,
FUADACOMUN would assemble a simple data base of the value of improved and unimproved
barrio land in a representative sample of cities in Venezuela, as well as in different
neighborhoods within cities with more than 200,000 inhabitants. As the subprojects are
implemented, FUNDACOMUN would monitor the changes in the value of the improved areas.
Municipalities would be primarily responsible for providing data on land values, while
FUNDACOMUN would verify their accuracy through its data base.
C. Environmental and Poverty Impacts
6.11 Environmental Impat. The project is expected to have a generally positive impact on
the conservation and enhancement of the physical environment of barrios benefitting from its
investments. Properly designed and constructed subprojects such as street paving and storm
drainage produce significant reduction in erosion and in the disposal of unsanitary material. Two
areas, sewerage and garbage disposal, however, will require special safeguards. As the
subprojects are expected to be small in size and consist most frequently of extensions of existing
services, the project will have few direct environmental impacts commonly associated with
sewerage treatment plants or sanitary landfills. For subprojects related to potentially
environment-sensitive systems, such as sewerage and solid waste disposal, the POM would
include the condition that they would not be eligible for fiancing under the project, unless they
fully comply with local environmental protection laws and regulations and specific POM
guidelines. Furthermore, compliance with this condition and POM guidelines for reviewing
environmental aspects of physical investment subprojects would be specifically included in the
terms of reference for the semi-annual performance audits.
6.12 Fundacomun will make one engineer with experience in environmental impact assessment
fully responsible for reviewing the environmental aspects of physical investment subprojects in



36
accordance with guidelines established in the POM. Project funds for staff training and
consultant services will be available under the institutional development component to help
improve Fundacomun's capacity for discharging this responsibility, if deemed necessary during
the implementation phase.
6.13 Poverty Impact. The project is expected to have a positive poverty impact by helping
GOV implement its poverty alleviation program. Some 230,000 low-income residents of urban
barrios in cities throughout Venezuela would benefit from an improved and more healthy living
environment with security of land tenure. However, because of the rise in land value resulting
from the physical improvements finced by the project and the possibility that land be claimed
for construction of these improvements, there is a potential for population displacement.
Although this potential is estimated to be insignificant, the following policies would be adopted in
an effort to minimize such possible negative impact: (i) local participation of project beneficiaries
in municipal investment decision making would be required and should start in the early stages of
the decision making process; (ii) population displaced by land claimed for construction of
infrastructure would be resettled in the same barrio, following Bank guidelines for involuntary
resettlement. These policies would be an integral part of the POM and their acceptance by
municipalities a condition for participation in the project. FUNDACOMUN, through its
Directorate for Community Development, will assist municipalities in the design and
implementation of community participation schemes. Also, a study will be carried out under the
project to determine its poverty impact (para. 3.15). This study would be based on household
surveys in barrios benefitting from project investments, and its results available for the project's
mid-term review.
D. Uncertainties and Risks
6.14  Potential project risks are: (a) slow development and strengthening of FUNDACOM UN's
project management capabilities needed to implement the project; (b) lack of sufficient demand
for investment financing by municipalities under the terms and conditions offered under the
project; (c) lack of adequate institutional capacity of municipalities to prepare and implement
projects with external financing, especially from the Bank; and (d) lack of willingness on the part
of GOV to continue supporting reforms related to the decentralization process, especially those
relating to the funding of urban infrastructure investments.
6.15  To minimize these risks, the following safeguards have been introduced into the project:
(a) staffing, equipment and installations of the PMU would be reviewed by Bank supervision
missions as a priority during first year of implementation, with changes made as necessary; (b) a
first year investment program would be secured before the loan is effective and a project mid-
term review would provide for adjustments in subproject financing terms and conditions if
municipal demand for project funds were to change; (c) training and technical assistance to be
provided to participating municipalities under the MTTAP component will address their
weaknesses in project preparation and implementation; and (d) a municipal finance study has been
included under the project and its results and policy recommendations will be discussed between



37
GOV and the Bank for the purpose of establishing a timetable for implementating government
policies on municipal finance.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
7.1   The government brought to negotiations the following, for Bank review and agreement:
(a) a preliminary investment program for the first year of project implementation (para. 3.4);
(b) outline terms of reference for the studies to be financed under the project (para. 3.10).
7.2   At negotiations, the following agreements were obtained.
(a) FUNDACOMUN would carry out the studies on (i) municipal finance by December 31,
1994; and (ii) the evaluation of the project's poverty impact by June 30, 1995; discuss
their results and policy implications with GOV and the Bank; and , GOV and
FUNDACOMUN would present action plans, acceptable to the Bank, not later than three
months after the completion date of each study and implement such action plans (paras.
3.12 and 3.15).
(b) FUNDACOMUN would carry out the studies on (i) the regularization of land tenure by
March 31, 1993 (para. 3.14); (ii) the municipal information system and the third national
inventory of barrios by June 30, 1993 (paras. 3.11 and 3.13); and, GOV and
FUNDACOMUN would present action plans, acceptable to the Bank, not later than three
months after the completion date of each study and implement such action plans (para.
3.10).
(c) FUNDACOMUN would implement the project in accordance with the provisions of a
project operations manual (POM) (para. 3.21) to include, inter alia, the agreed criteria for
selecting municipalities (paras. 3.16 and 3.17) and subprojects (paras. 3.19 and 3.20),
and agreed procurement procedures and would not change the POM without the Bank's
consent (para 3.31).
(d) FUNDACOMUN would establish and maintain separate prcject accounts, firnishing to the
Bank annual audits of the financial statements of these accounts, including a separate
opinion on withdrawal applications made on the basis of SOEs, not later than June 30
each year. FUNDACOMUN would also furnish to the Bank overall progress reports on a



38
semi-annual basis by January 31 and August 31 each year, as well as annual performance
audits by March 31 of each year (paras. 3.38 and 4.12).
(e) FUNDACOMUN would establish and maintain throughout the project period a project
management unit (PMU) with functions and staffing acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.1).
(f)  GOV and FUNDACOMUN would carry out jointly with the Bank annual reviews by
December 31 each year and a comprehensive mid-term review not later than December
31, 1995, with the purpose of examining progress made, discussing the proposed annual
implementation plans, assessing the relevance of project objectives and actions, and
agreeing on appropriate revisions, as needed (paras. 4.2 and 4.11).
(g) FUADACOMUN would submit annual project implementation plans (PIPs) for Bank
review not later than December 1 of the preceding year. Such plans would include
consolidated municipal investment plans, measures for strengthening FUNDACOMUN's
management and proposed plans for technical assistance to municipalities (para. 4.10).
(h) FUNDACOMUN would employ a consultant by September 30, 1992 to design a
monitoring and evaluation system for project implementation and train FUNDACOMUN
staff to implement it and have such system operational by December 31, 1992 (para.
4.12).
(i)  FUNDACOMUN would not approve any annual investment plan presented by a
municipality if such plan provides for civil works through force account, including the
cost of materials, in excess of ten percent (10%) of the estimated cost of the
infrastructure investments in such plan; and use, and cause the municipalities to use,
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.29 and 3.31).
(j)  For purposes of implementing the infrastructure investments component, FUNDACOMUN
would sign Participation Agreements and Subproject Agreements, and the Financial Agent
would sign Subloan Agreements, with each of the participating municipalities, such
arrangements to provide for the general and specific commnitments of the municipalities
regarding the infrastructure investments (para. 4.3).
7.3   The following are conditions of loan effectiveness.
(a) Establishment of the PMU with organization and staffing satisfactory to the Bank (para
4.1).
(b) FUNDACOMUN's formal adoption of the project operations manual (para. 4.9).
(c) Execution of acceptable participation and subproject agreements between FUNDACOMUN
and at least three eligible municipalities, and subloan agreements between the Financial
Agent and the three municipalities in question (para. 4.9).



39
(d) Execution of an acceptable agreement between FUNDACOMUN and a Financial Agent,
establishing a trust fund (fideicomiso) which wouid administer municipal subloans under
the project (para. 5.7).
(e) Presentation to the Bank of a proposed annual investment program, satisfactory to the
Bank, covering the first year of project implementation (para. 4.9).
7.4    Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  in respect of any investment subproject, execution of satisfactory participation and
subproject agreements between FUNDACOMUN and an eligible municipality, and a
subloan agreement between the Financial Agent and the municipality in question (para.
4.3); and
(b) in respect of expenditures related to technical assistance and training for municipalities,
execution of a satisfactory participation agreement between FUNDACOMUN and the
respective eligible municipality (para. 4.3);
(c) for any expenditure, its inclusion in subloans or annual project implementation plans
approved by the Bank (para. 4.3).
7.5   Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$40
million equivalent to the Republic of Venezuela for a period of 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



40
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
THE EXECUTING AGENCY: FUNDACOMUN
1.    FUNDACOMUN (Fundacidn para el Desarrollo de la Comunddad y Fomento Municpal -
Foundation for Community Development and Municipal Growth) was founded in January 1962
by Decree No. 688 of the National Executive, making it one of the oldest municipal development
agencies in Latin America. Initial c apitalization for its programs came from financial support
from USAID in the mid-1960s, whet, FUNDACOMUN undertook pioneering work to support
the precarious local government arrangements existing at that time.
2.    The primary objectives of FUNDACOMUN, as outlined in its statutes, are to:
a.    research the basic needs of barrio residents to determine appropriate actions;
b.    stimulate community associations to serve as a link between the local population
and the executive authorities;
C.    coordinate community development programns;
d.    contribute to the financing of projects for community development and municipa!
strengthening;
e.    provide technical assistance to municipalities to strengthen their planning
capabilities; and
f.    contribute to improving the quality of life of the population.
3.    By 1965, FUNDACOMUN had already completed its first technical assistance efforts to
help implement and strengthen a local municipal cadastre, and strengthening of municipalities was
the agency's priority during this time. From 1974 onwards when more attention was given to
issue of community development and participation. In fact, FUNDACOMUN has shared this
twin objectives since its inception. To fulfil its responsibilities for both municipal and
community development, FUNDACOMUN's organizational structure highlights the roles of two
key directorates: i) the municipal development directorate; and ii) the community development
directorate. Both of these report directly to FUNDACOMUN's President, who is also directly
advised by teams of professionals concerned with the legal, personnel, administrative and
financial matters of the agency. FUNDACOMUN also has an extensive regional organization
throughout Venezuela, responsible for the local implementation of the agency's work program.
FUNDACOMUN's regional directorates also provide the agency with a valuable link to state and
local government based upon trust that has built upon decades of working with them.



41
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
4.    The Project itself will aim strengthen and harness both areas of emphasis within the
existing structure of FUNDACOMUN, by exploiting the best of the skills available in both key
directorates for project implementation. In order to ensure coherent policy guidelines (especially
concerning cost recovery, and the technical and economic evaluation of sub-projects), a special
Project Management Unit (PMU) would be created, headed by a manager of Vice-Presidential
status, under the direct command of the President of FUNDACOMUN.
5.    FUNDACOMUN's involvement with barrios has come largely from the planning and
implementation of local community 'modules' ("centros de servicios comunales" or community
centers). Begun in 1974, this was a very ambitious program designed to serve th4 majority of
barrio dwellers throughout the country. To date, some 220 such modules have been built, each
one serving some 20,000 inhabitants, probably accounting for one half of the present population
of urban barrios in Venezuela today. Each module consists of a community center (usually
including a health post, day-care center) to serve the local population. Through developing and
operating these modules, FUNDACOMUN has gained experience of urban barrios that has been
pre-eminent not only among GOV agencies, but also among local government that has been
unable to act in the past.
6.    FUNDACOMUN's formal responsibiliky for barrios is set out in Decree No. 332 of
August 13, 1974. This decree assigns the task of planning and coordinating government work in
these areas to the agency. Thus, the objective of stimulating, organizing and training grass-roots
community associations in barrios, so that they serve as a link between the local people and
central government actions, was added to FUNDACOMUN's responsibilities, giving the agency
the right to intervene in any urban barrio through Venezuela.
7.    During the 1974-83 period (prior to the recent GOV decentralization plan), community
development was a higher priority for FUNDACOMUN than municipal strengthening. Although
less attention was given to municipal development (through technical assistance to local
government), this did not mean that municipal strengthening languished altogether. Through
courses sponsored by FUNDACOMUN for example, some 1,800 municipal officials per year
were trained in the basic skills of municipal administration (e.g. accounting and record keeping).
This was down on the peak of 3,053 trainees in 1974. Technical assistance has been given to
more than one hundred municipalities over the years, in priority areas such as strengthening
municipal administration, especially through consolidation of property cadasters for example,
urban land use legislation, and urban planning. An important body of experience has built up
which the Project aims to revitalize.
8.    Although a new executing agency for a Bank-financed project, FUNDACOMUN is not a
newcomer to international relations. Its very birth can, in part be attributed to a bilateral
program financed to the order of US$30 million by USAID. Currently a German technical
assistance program though GTZ is under way in FUNDACOMUN and looking at new areas
where support can be provided to n.unicipal government. Finally, FUNDACOMUN has



42
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
maintained close links with IBAM (Brazilian Institute of Municipal Administration) with which it
has mounted s number of joint events.
9.    Currently FUNDACOMUN has a staff of 795; 42% work in the headquarters in Caracas,
while 58% work in regional offices throughout the country. In order to build up operational
teams directly responsible for implementing the Project, FUNDACOMUN agreed to re-allocate
staff and hire specific consulting inputs as necessary.
10.   FUNDACOMUN's operations are small financially, with a total income in 1990 of
Bs222.6 million (US$4.7 million) and total assets of only Bs589.2 million (US$12.4 million). Its
1990 payroll of Bs177.4 million (US$3.7 million) indicates a low average remuneration for its
staff. Over the past several years, funding for FUNDACOMUN has been eroded in an
unpredictable fashion, especially as GOV's fiscal crisis from 1986 on, forced severe cutbacks in
the agency's funding. Recent efforts by GOV have helped ensure a more sound budget for
FUNDACOMUN in 1991 to an amount of Bs441.0 million (US$7.4 million).



43
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL FINANCES IN VENEZUELA
1.    This annex presents a view of municipal finances in Venezuela; Section A describes the
structure of municipal finances; Section B outlines the debt-capacity limitations to be used under
the project and provides calculations for potential borrowing as of 1991; and Section C presents
the financial situation of a sarnple of four municipalities which will be included in the project's
first year program.
A. The Structure of Municipal Finances in Venezuela
2.    In 1989, municipal revenues in Venezuela were roughly equally divided between central
gtv'-r!ment transfers, representing 49.7% of total revenues, and own revenues, representing
50.2 A of total revenues.
-rransfers
3.    Given the high degree of dependence on the petroleum sector, intergovernmental transfers
from the national to subnational governments play a large role. Municipal transfers are
comprised largely of the situado municipal, part of the situado constitutional, which is a grant
program funded out of general govermnent revenues and distributed to the states according to a
formula that specifies that 70% of funds are allocated on a per capita basis, with the rest
allocated equally across the states. As stated in the Decentralization Act, the amount of the
situado constitutional is increasing since 1989 by one percent per year to 20% of central
government revenues by 1994; moreover, 50% of the funds are supposed to be used for
investrnent projects.
4.    Situado Municipal. Part of the situado constitutional is passed on to municipalities. Up
to 1989, municipalities had access to 5% of the situado constitutional (i.e, 10% of the 50% of the
situado the states could use to finance recurrent expenditures; the remaining 50% was to finance
investment programs). This amount was distributed among the municipalities in the same way
as the situado constitutional: 70% on a per capita basis; 30% allocated equally across the



44
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
municipalities. The amendment of the LORM (the municipal law) increased the municipal
situado which is now computed as a percentage of the total constitutional situado. That
percentage in increasing from 10% in 1989 to 20% in 1999 (1% a year).
5.    The "situado" is a transparent way of distributing central government revenues to the
states but is still far from being an efficient distributive process. It is true that the 30% equal
allocation across the states serves to increase slightly the redistributive impact of this grant
program, as the population of the low population states is disproportionately poor. However, a
better way to pursue this effect could be achieved including explicit measures of need -- e.g., per
capita income -- and of tax effort in the allocation formula. It seems that as the terms of the
situado constitutional are set in the constitution, and that its basic structure could be difficult to
change. To pursue more focussed distribution programs, the government is considering a
temporary redistribution fund. However, it may be worth to consider a change/improvement in
the formula of the situado constitutional and to avoid the proliferation of parallel distribution
funds. The main problem at present is however the lack of basic economic data at state level that
could be used in the improved formula situado.
Own Revenues
6.    The "Patent" on Industry and Commerce (PIC): The primary source of revenues at
the municipio level is a tax on local businesses -- the Patent Industria y Comercio (PIC). In the
largest municipalities, the PIC accounts for about 60% of the local revenues. The basic structure
consists of a low rate tax on gross sales, coupled with a minimum tax and a license fee; rates in
the communities visitu were in the neighborhood of 0.2-1.0% of sales. Despite some proposals
(e.g. FUDECO) to exclude from the base the purchase of goods on which the tax was already
paid, the PIC remains a transactions tax, that is, a tax on gross sales by all enterprises.
7.    The Property Tax: The second major source of revenue at the local level is the property
tax. The structure and problems of the property tax in Venezuela appear to be typical of many
developing countries. The tax is generally assessed on both residential and non-residential
property, and the latter type of property often faces differentially high rates. Rates are low,
properties are systematically underassessed and evasion is widespread.
8.    Local governments have understood this situation and are committed to improving the tax
base. In several municipalities the mission visited (e.g. Punto Fijo), efforts were being devoted
to creating or improving computer-based cadastral sutveys in order to make assessments
correspond more closely to market values. Two problems were noticed. Thefirst one is that
local jurisdictions have little if any power to enforce the property tax (in contrast to the



45
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
PIC, in which case non-paying businesses can be shut down). It would be urgent in these
circumstances to provide local governments with such power, including the right to foreclose on
properties that are sufficiently delinquent in their tax payments. The second problem is the
political incentive to raise taxes. To address this aspect, the govermment is considering ways to
include in the situado a measure of tax effort (or the relation between tax collection and tax
capacity) so as to "reward" the local governments who are do.ng better in terms of tax collection.
This is a very interesting point which the final report will address in detail with examples from
other countries with reset to the design of the incentive scheme.
9.    In fact, there is significant potential for increasing local revenues through improved
collection and increased rates. Using a residential property tax to finance local services is widely
viewed as desirable. Taxes on non-residential property can also be justified to some extent as
beneflt taxes; indeed, for the reasons noted above, replacing the PIC with the property tax would
be desirable as long as taxes were at least loosely related to benefits received.
10.   Taxes on Petroleum Resources. Under current law, subnational governments cannot tax
petroleum resources. This procedure is in line with the economic principles that prohibition of
local taxation of a resource rent is highly desirable. However, state and/or local governments
should be allowed to tax such resources to the extent that they generate negative externalities in
the regions in which they are located (e.g. pollution of water streams) and to offset the costs of
providing such industries with local services. Note however, that such taxes would have to be
monitored closely to ensure that their levels did not greatly exceed those implied by these two
purposes.
11.   Land Taxes. Local governments rely to a small extent on separate land taxes (sometimes
conditioned on tire land being vacant). In addition, some times, land values are determined
separately from the values of capital improvements. This suggests some potential for increased
revenues from increased land taxes (including reassessments). Land taxes are desirable on
efficiency grounds to the extent they are used to finance "pure" rather than congested local public
services and if they offset increases in property values attributable to public services; in addition,
they are desirable on equity grounds to the extent that land ownership is concentrated among the
rich. Increased use of land taxes is an option at the local level, although the base is
relatively small to make land taxes a major source of revenue.
12.   The vehide tax. Vehicle tax is a common tax in most parts of the world: it is easy to
collect and to enforce; it provides a reliable source of information about the vehicle fleet actually
in use; and can be a good local tax provided tax rates do not vary widely across jurisdictions.
Large differences in rates, especially for commercial vehicles, may favor de-localization of
enterprises with important vehicle fleets. In addition, in countries where income tax evasion is



46
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
widespread and car ownership is low, the vehicle tax with high rates on private cars has a
redistributive effect.
13.   In Venezuela, the vehicle tax is a municipal tax. In large municipalities, it is the third
most important source of tax revenue. The tax base is a function of the size and use of the
vehicle. Public administration vehicles, as well as the vehicles of welfare and cultural
associations are exempted. The key problem with this tax is that tax rates have not been- updated
over the last 30 years. In the sixties, when a car cost 1,500 Bs, the annual tax was 100 Bs. Now
a car costs 1.000.000 Bs, and the annual tax is still 100 Bs. The tax rate has thus fallen from
6.6% to .001%. The proceeds of the tax are not enough to cover the administrative costs.
14.   There is large scope to increase the base of the Vehicle Tax which could then constitute
an additional source of revenue for municipal governments. This would require: (i) update the
information on vehicles; (ii) enforcing compliance; (iii) increasing tax rates; and (iv) designing a
more effective system for tax collection and compliance control.
15.   User Charges. Local governments also make some use of user charges. The previous
discussion generally applies -- user charges are highly desirable but also difficult to implement
from a political standpoint. This will have to be expanded under the project.
B. Debt Capacity of Participating Municipalities
16.   Debt capacity limitations were arrived at by performing a series of simulations
demonstrating the capacity of the target group of 76 municipalities to assume, manage and repay
loans for infrastructure investments. Assuming near market rates, and medium- to long-term
periods (10 years), sensitivity analysis was done to show that even under conservative
assumptions about exogenous and other factors municipalities would be able to repay these loans.
The analysis (see attached table 2.1) demonstrated that an annual debt service limit of 15% of
total revenues would enable municipalities to repay and maintain adequate financial health.
C. Financial Situation of First Year Municipalities
17.   The financial situation of the four municipalities which will participate in the first year
program -- Matur"i, Torres, Valencia and Monagas -- are prov;ded in the attached table 2.2. As
shown in the table 2.2 all four meet the established criteria of current account balance, no
outstanding debt with FUNDACOMUN, and debt service less than 15% of total revenues.



VENEZUELA
LOW - INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table  2.1    Municipal Indebtedness  Capacity. Maximum   Project Cost, and  Estimated  Maximum  Subloan  Amoutds
1                    2                    5                    4
TOTAL                       INrEREST 32% PERIOD 7 YEARS 
5TATES                     MUNICIPALInY -PITAL   REVENUE 1992  MAJX TOTAL |AX. SUBLOAN ANNUAL
_l,  DOUVARI1S-PRO3eCT cosrT   AMOUNr   I                           svJc
DISTRICI FEDERAL
I Libertador - Caracas                             7.ODO.200.00D       8.445.893.4781        2.282.673.9131       1.050.030D000
2 Varps - La Gnaia                                   95.907.8061        1.189.519.2011         321.491.6761         147.86.171|
MIRANDA
I Acevedo - Caucasm                                   36.715.977          44.298.624            11.977.601            .07.397
2_B_ tu-Baruts   _           __         _          1.500.000.000        1.809.782.609          489.130.435         225000.000
3 Cdsdobl Rojas - Charailave                         147.214.629         177.617.650            48.004.770          22.082,194
4 Guaicaipuro - Los Tegues                           351.696.636         424.329.637           114.683.686          52754.495
S Iqdependencia - Santa Teresa                       102.408.716         123.55S.342            33.394.147           15.361.307
6 Lander - Ocumare                                   140.782.724         169,857.417            45.907.410          21.117.409
7 Plaza - Guaremas                                   360.000.000         434.347.826           117.391.304          S4.000.000
8 Sucrc - Pebarc                                   4.327.595.m          5.22103387           1.411.172.534         649.139.366
91 Undarct - C _                                     118.888.098         143.441.075            38.767.8SS          17.833.215
10 Zamom - Oualire                                    240.870.520         290.615.519            78.544.735          36.130.578
ARAGUA
IGirsrdot - Maracay                                 775.000.000         93S.054.348           252.717.391         116.250.000
2Jost Felx Rib.s - La Victoria                       176,234.672         212.630.93             57.46828            26.435.201
3 Lbertdor - Palo Negro                               50.737.110          61.215.426            16.544.710           7.610.567
4 Mario Bricelo INagorti - El Lim6n                   81.844.456          9A747.15             26.688.410           12.276.668
SSnliago Marijo - Turmeto                            250.080.000         301.726.957            81.547.826          37,512.000
6Sucre - Cra ,u                                      122.221.059         147.462.365            39.854.693          18333.159
7 Zamota - Vilb de Cura                              126.149.604         12.202.240_            41.135.740          18.922.441
CARABOBO
1 Carlos Arvelo - Guipue                              97.053.681         117.097.376            31.647.939          14558.052
2 D.to Ibarta - Mariara                              137.170.833         165.499.592            44.729.619          20.575.625
3 Gumcan - Guacara                                   260.276.567         314.029.336            84.872.794          39.041.485
4 Puerto CObeUo - Puerto CabeIlo                     706.063.239         851.880.647           230.238.013         105.909.486
5 Valnacia - Valencia                              2.3136.600.000      2795.028.261           755.413.043         347.490.0DD
COJEDES
| I|San Carlos - San CrElos                            126.710.8001         152879.3351           41.31S.7391          19.006.620
GUARICO
I Inhate -Vaie de La Pascua                          107.8662751         130.143.006            35.173.7851         16.179.941
2 1 Miranda - {ab bozo                               109. 76325          132.436.6641           35.793.693 I        16.465.099|
31 Monagas - Altagrcia de Orituco                     77.227.563          93.176.734            25.182,901          1184.134
4 1Roscio - San Juan de Los Motros                   100.466.965         121.215.577            32,760.9671          15.070,045
0I



VENEZUELA
LOW - INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table  2.1    Municipal Indebtedness Capacity. Maximum  Pfoject Cost, and  E4ffmated  Maximum  Subloan  Amounts
1                    2                   2                    4
I                                     .           TOTAL              .        INTEREST  32%  PERIOD 7 YEARS.
STATES                     MUNICIPALTY- CAPITAL   REVENUE 1M 9    MAX. TOTAL  MAX.' UBLOAN ANNUAL DEBT
I,OLVAM    I PROJuECr COST    AMOUNr                           SERVICE
APURE
I I San Fernado - San Fernando                        192.174.8951        231.863.389]           62.65.7271          28.S.2341
PA CON
I  Carnubana - Punto Fiio            :              161.341.020         194.661.448           52.611.202          24.201.153
2 Miranda - Coro                                    209.660.1381        2S2,959.5141          6.367.436           31.449.021
LARA
I rinbs.Tren - thrquisuieIo                         997.361.142       1.203.337.900          325.226,459         149.604.171
2 Jienez - Qubor                                     96.107.206         115.9SS.433           31.339.306          14.416.081
3 Morn - El Tocuyo                                                      2 113.93,180  1373.119  37.165,167   _    17.M9n
4 PaIvecino - Cabudare                              205.411,522         247,33.467            66.9S2,092  30811.72S
5 Torres - Caoro                                    267.245.538         201.785.377           54.536,58S          2S.086,831
PORTUGUESA
I IlAtaure - Aaure_                                   105.103.1791        126.809.2701           34.272,7761         15.765A477
2 Guanare - Guanare                                 122.000,0001        147.195.6521          39.782,6091         18,300.000
3 Piez - Acari ua                                   189.3487311         228,453.360           61.7441511          28.402.310
YAIIACUY                                                                                                                                                                            P6
I Pefa -Yaritas ~Rua                                 34.615.5501         65,894.8481          17.809,418           8.192.3331                                       00
I 2 San Fem - ESLe p                                  172.966.464         208.687.799           56.402,1081         25,944 9701
ZULIA
I Baalt - San Timotlo                               144.304.705         174.106.764           47.055.882          21.645.706
2 Cabimas - Cabinas                                 454.039.124         547.808.074          148.056.236          68.105.869
3 Col6m - San Carlos                                168.575.045         203.389.456           54,970.123          25.286.257
4 Jesis Enrique Lossada - La Concepci6              129.0.4.389         155.706.926           42.082.953          19.35S158
5 Macbiusse  de Periii - hacbiques                  187.453.856         226.167.152           61.126.257          28. 18.078
6 MaD - Sao Ratael del loian                        125.965,00          151.9793511           41.075.543          18.894.750
7 Maracaibo - Maracaibo                           1.883.667.061       2.272685.258           614.239.259         282.550.059
8 Miranda - Puaeno de Ailbscia                      5086.783            613.874.379          165.911.994          76.319.517
9 La unillas - Ciudad Op a                          562.294.260         678.420.248          183.356.824 _        84,344.139
10 Rosaio de Perils - V    del Roario                 98.915.630         119.343.858           32.255.097          14.837.345
BARINAS
I Iarinas - tarinas                                 214.795.8261        259.155,8341          70.042,117|         32219.3741
MERIDA
II Alberto Adneni - E  Vig                I           90.321.9541         108.975.4011          29.4528111          13.5482933
2 Campo   as - Ejido                                 39.085.2061         47.17.01             127451761            5.862.781|J
3 Libesuador - Merida                               398.106.1861        480.323.76S1         129.817.2351         59.71M.928I



-           LA
LOW - INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table  2.1    Municipal Indebtedness Capacity. Maximum  Project Cost, and  Estimated  Maximum  Subloan  Amounts
*                    2                    3                   4
TOTAL                       IN'EREST 32% Pl-RIOD 7 YEARSW                   I
STATES                     MUNICIPALITY - CAPITAL    REVENUE gm92  MAX. TOTAL  MAX. SUBLOAN I ANNUAL DEBT
DOIJVARIlS    PROJECT COST    AMOUNT                           SERVICE
TACIIIRA
I                                   _._Ciirdetas - Tiriba  4500005.2348                          4673.9~13     -    6.7.o00
2 U;     uio                                    45.842.172          5.0,7149834676.32
H3 Sl  .t5          al-I  Crisl6i1_                   8,65.0             462.864.0901          125.098.4031         57.54.6
TRUJILLO
[  FoeoD6 - elocono                                     65.515.7JS          79.046.171           2,.363.830  =-         " 9.827.362
I   Tjbio - TruWiilb                       _           60,187.0801          72.617.020           19.626.222           9.028,062
L31 Valra - Valera                                  163.445.157         097.200.135            53.297.334          24.516.774
APURE
LI Piez-Gua.       ito          __                   - r142528 57 01  171.963.8181               46.476.708i 2L.2
ANZOATEtG IJI
I  _Anco - Anaco                                    449.247.397          J                     62.026751  J6.493.76  67.387,110
2 Bolivar - Barcelona                               462.879.300         55S,473.93            1.50 938.902         69.431.S95
.SimTn Rodrituez- El  frt                         114.000.000         137.543.478           37.173.913          17.100.000
4 SoiNo- Puerto La Cruz                             210.000.000         253.369.565            68.478.261          31S.t0,000
MONAGAS
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              7 . ,  W. _ .-I0 _4 _  _ _6.               _0_ _. _0_
SUCRE
2 |Sucrtl>e - Cuituna                                                    .07 l 1o4931        85,149.0521         39.168s641
NUEVAJ ESPARTA
I IIMatiho - Plbmar                                   392.41 I            473.452.726|          127.9 .19      _    58.861.690|0
BOLIVAR
_ 3ICa ro.n -Ciudad Otiayaaa                         1.310.004,072 11     .580.548.391          427.175.241         196.500.6111
2 21tes e - Ciudad Bolivar                          290.881.300         3,0,9.54.612           94.852.598          43.632.195
3 Piat - Upata                          1           120.383,447         145.245.246            39255.472           18,057.517
T.P. AMAZONAS
I IT. F. Amazons - Puerlo Aacucho    |                274 565.2521        331.26A945 |           89.532.s471         41.184,788
T.P. DELTA AMACURO
| I|T.F. Della Amacuro                  I           295.944.8391        357.063.8821          96,503.7521         44.391.7261
|            TOTALS                    11     34.332.732757       41423184351           11.195456.3341       5.149.909.914
AVERAGE                            451I746h484         S45.041.9531          147.308.6361         67.761 973                               _1
1. Tatd Ntm.ddprmaar 1997 as bRi  Ifrco Mmidpsl bdrpL
1 NadinE  * pa ml. eatdduing dt 27% of It  hA bAaucd by lt aa ate 32% latsa   bto for *  paeod at 7 ,m.
S. Hedin   m"u  of .1bmm at 32% isamat brte kwr a picd of 1d loa   iadng 3 yews u  p uce
4. pAusI Det SeMio sablosm. w6   Is equaL do_ bqe ummt IS% of" latd atsidpal ere*me  ialt thudd he secd for wddg debit.
71bs Medd smee   it n msdpdi. haem  o r dchi &        eWnIie bidi. Mew eeonpolhig to s.1om  protd   soadea the projed.



50
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
First-Year Municipal Investment Programs
1.    During appraisal of the project, the first-year investment programs for the municipalities
of Maturfn, Monagas, Torres and Valencia were examined. With the exception of the investment
program for Valencia which did not meet all of the project criteria for selection of investment
subprojects, the investment programs for the other three municipalities proved feasible and are
acceptable for financing under the project. The first-year investment programs for Maturfn,
Monagas and Torres amount to approximnately US$6 million equivalent, including investments in
water supply, sewerage, electricity, drainage and paving, as well as in equipment for garbage
collection. A summary of the investnent program for each of these three municipalities is
presented in the attached tables.
2.    FUNDACOMUN has reported on the strong interest on the part of several other
municipalities to participate in the project. Even if no more proposals are received for the first
year, the investment programs for these three municipalities would ensure a minimum level of
investments under the project. A total of 28,351 barrio dwellers, living in 5,681 households,
would benefit from the investments included in the first-year programs for Maturfn, Monagas and
Torres. In addition to improving their access to basic urban infrastructure services, the project
would also secure land tenure through land titling schemes to be carried out in beneficiary
barrios. The total population and number of families as well as other features of the barrios
included in the first-year program are presented in a table below.
3.    The economic evaluation of the barrio improvements included in the investment programs
of Maturfn, Monagas and Torres showed internal rates of return above 12 percent. The weighted
average internal rate of return for the investments in these three municipalities is 21.8 percent.
The internal rate of return for each of the .ight barrios included in the investment programs
examined is presented in a table below.



VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Main Features of Barios
POPULATION,   AREA...  :DENSITY               TOTAL       r  LA     . 
NAMEOF BARRIO '                (# of inhab.) J    .haJ   s Inhablha)  # Or fAMILIES OWNERSHIP
MATURIN (State of Monagas)
*Brfias de la Floresta                 840           4.58        183.41            168    Muricipal
*La Florecita                         2,292          9.94        230.58           459    Murncipal
*El Mereyal                           1,751          8.76        199.89           398    Munrcipal
*Sabana Grande                       10,068         57.80        174.19          2,014    Municipal
MONAGAS (State of Guarico)
*El Diamante                          2,640         13.20        200.00            600    Municipal
*Plaural III                          4,796         28.00        171.29          1,090    Municipal
TORRES (State of Lara)
*Las Mercedes                         2,430         13.44        180.80            450    Municipal
*La Tortona                           3,534         25.71        137.46            502    Municipal
9



VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary nvestment Pbn for thw MunicipaGly of MATURIN (State of Moreagas)
'________________  COST (I.18)   WATER                  ISEWERAGE                                             ELECTR
NAME OF       l, ,        |COST tUSSl  EXT. (mI No. FAM. BEN. COST LJ             E     M     N                         EXT. Iml No. FAM. BEN
Brias de la Floresta                                                     43,750      1,050              168
La Fomdta                                                               2033         4.880              459
El Meeyal                                                               152.083      3.650              398
Sabani Grands                                                           625,833      15,020            2,014
TOTALS                                             _                   1.024,999    24,600            3,0.39
-I           DfANtAGE iNAPAVING                                           -                   SOUL) WASTE
NAME OF 8ARRIO   -          COST (USt1  EXT. (m)  No. f         N     ST (US$                 No. FA. BEN    ST JS$1*'          No. FAM. BEt
BrsasdeFlaFomsta                 23.562      2,100             168       55.118      7,350              168                               168
La Floetia                       109,509     9,760            459       256,168     34,160              4S9                              459
El Meyat                         81,907      7,30X             398      307,402     40,992              398                              398          l
Sabana Grands                   33.,054     30,040           2,014      788,289    105,140            2,014                             2,014         t
TOTALS                           552,032    49,200           3,039     1,406,977    187,642            30.39     405,200                3.039
Note: ...cosl for sold waste equipment only available hI aggregate igures at the munlcpal level.
A



VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary Inestment Pln for the Munictpality of MONOGAS (Slate of Guarico)
WATER                               SEWERAGE                                  ELE CITY
NAME OF BARRIO              COT            EXT. 0m            BEN. COST (LiSt)   EXT. (m)    No. FAM. BEN. COST (US$l EXT. (ml No. FAM. BEN
El Diazmnte                       97,631     2,795             260        96,435       1.765             299       104,630                 600
P  Iun  I11                   193,328     5,3-38            516      .355,938      6,556              640       147,651                 715
TOTALS                           2907959    8h133              7761      452373       8,321              939       252,281                1,715
I            DRAINAGE                                  PAVING                    I             SOLID WASTE
NAME OP BARRIO            __COST (UNS$   EXT. (ml   No. tAM. BEN. COST (US$)   EXT. (m)    No. FAM. BEN. COST (JS$)*              No. FAM. BEN
El Dbamante                       64,328     .5 028            600       178,988     23,868              600                               600
PLaunal II                        95,060     7,430            1,090      256,903     34,258             1090                              1.090
TOTALS                           159,388     12,458           1,690      435.891     58,126             1,690      202,600                1690
Note: ...cost for solid waste equipment only available in aggregate figures at the municpal level.
:Q



VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary Iestment Plan for the Municipality of TORRES (State of Lara)
WATER                              SEWERAGE          .                      ELECTRICIY
NAME OF BARIO               COST 1US$)  EXT. (mr   No. FAM. BEN. COST tUSS)   EXT. (m)    No. FAM. BEN. COST (uS$S EXt. ntm) No. FAM. BE
Las Mercedes                      1,458        35             13        28,500       710               60
LaToiona                         20,292       487             75        30,000       680              101
TOTALS                           21,750       522              88       58,500      1,390             1611
DRAINAGE                                PAVING                                 SOLID WASTE
INAME OF BARRIO             COST ffUS$)  EXT. (m)  No. FAM. BEN. COST US5$)   EXT. (m)    No. FAM. BEN. COST IUSS) -          No. FAM. BEN
Las Meroedes                     21,586     1,924            429       168,729     22,500             450                              450
La Tonota                        45,217     4,030             250      132,734     17,700             393                              502
TOTALS                           66.803     5,954            679       301,463     40,200             843      213,640                 9521
Note: ...cost for solid waste equipment only available In aggregate fgures at the municpal level.
0*



55
A~NNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
VENEZUELA: LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF PROPOSED BARRIO IMPROVEMENTS
Internal rate of return:
Cost     Base     Costs    Benefits
MUNICIPALITY/Barrio         (Bs.m)   Case     plus 20% less 20%
MATURIN
Brisas de la Floresta           8.8     21.9%    16.7%    15.9%
La Florecita                   40.7     21.6%    16.5%    15.4%
El Mereyal                     40.4     21.4%    16.3%    15.2%
Sabana Grande                 130.6     25.0%    19.5%    18.3%
MONAGAS
El Paural III                  62.9     16.7%    12.1%    12.1%
El Diamante                    24.6     18.8%    14.0%    13.0%
TORRES
La Toffona                     13.7     24.1%    18.7%    17.6%
Las Mercedes                   13.2     18.5%    13.7%    12.7%
weighted averages:    21.8%    14.6%    13.8%
total:      334.9



56
ANNEX 4
Page I of 26
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Munieipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROGRAM
Technical assistance efforts would endeavor to strengthen the technical, management, and
financial capacity of each municipal administration with a view to having municipalities
increase their tax revenues and improve their expenditure programs.
II. ELEMENTS OF THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Municipal Legislation: Includes the study of legal instruments which enable the
municipal government to exercise authority within its jurisdiction, in accoraance
with the legal powers delegated by the National Constitution, the Municipal Law
(Ley Organica de Regimen Municipal), and other applicable national and state
laws. It would consist of:
a)    Analysis of existing tax statutes, urban and public service regulations, and
existing administrative ordinances, with the objective of determnining the
scope of reform.
b)    Preparation of proposed legislation to cover the reform of existing
ordinances, and to introduce new viable ordinances. This entails:
*     Studying existing laws and regulations;
*     Adaptation to the models developed by FUNDACOMUN to meet
specific needs of the Municipality;
*     Preparation of tax charts pursuant to ordinances;
*     Presentation of proposed legislation to Council;
*     Follow through, with the provision of technical assistance, for the
deliberation of proposed legislation during Council sessions .



57
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 26
2.    Tax Administration: Technical assistance would endeavor to develop a suitable
tax structure, related systems, and appropriate procedures for supporting art
efficient administration with increased control of municipal taxes, covering the following: a)
Registration
of Taxpayers:
*     Taxpayers' Census;
*     Formation of individual registers of taxpayers;
*     Centralization of activities into a Division of Billing and
Collections.
b)    Budgetary Accounting:
*     Implementation of standards, techniques, and procedures
established by the Information System of Budgeting and Control
for Municipalities;
*     Production of monthly reports on budgeting and control;
3     Providing information on budget performance to Fiscal
Accounting.
c)    Fiscal Accounting:
*     Monthly preparation of the Settlement Document;
*     Utilizing Principal and Auxiliary Accounting Books;
*     Utilizing appropriate accounting forms;
*     Preparation of an inventory of assets;
*     Preparation of financial statements (monthly and annual balance
sheets);
*     Implementing the procedures and techniques established by the
Information System for Budgeting and Control for Municipalities.
d)    Billing and Settlement:
*     Settling taxes in compliance with tax ordinance provisions;



58
ANNEX-4
Page 3 of 26
*     Billing taxpayers.
e)    Electronic processing of information:
*     Selection of equipment;
*     System programming.
3.    Cadastre: In the area of cadastre, technical assistance would focus on the
necessary procedures for establishing or updating the Real Property Register of
each Municipality. This would include the physical inventory of real property,
the assessment, and official land survey. The aim would be to increase muricipal
revenues based on an Urban Real Property Tax. The physical inventory would
permit determination of the location, area, dimensions, and physical characteristics
of land parcels and constructed buildings for the purpose of securing accurate and
practical cartographic information.
The official survey clarifies possession and ownership of each property,
determining discrepancies which may exist between accepted property boundaries
and what is, in fact, recorded in the deed held by the owner.
Assessment permits determination of a value for each urban property.
The procedures for forming or updating the ofticial cadastre, or land register,
include:
a)    Analysis to determine the degree of cadastral formation;
b)    Updating cadastral ordinances and revising taxation of urban real property;
c)    Updating information on the physical features of property included in the
cadastre:
(i)    Review and adjustment of cadastral zones;
(ii)   Review and adaptation of information on the boundaries of real
property which has been resurveyed;
(iii)   Measurement and survey of real property previously unsurveyed.



59
ANEX 4
Page 4 of 26
d)    Updating information on land tenure and property titles:
(i)    Updating the cadastral files;
(ii)   Updating ownership data;
(iii)   Settling property rights conflicts through title search which
identifies the true owner of land and determines the position and
area of public-owned land, as well as land owned by the
Municipality;
(iv)   Developing and putting into practice a model for filing and
maintaining cadastral information.
e)    Reevaluation of urban real properties includes:
(i)    Review and updating of tables for the valuation of constructed
buildings;
(ii)   Review and updating of unit costs of construction, as established
by the Cadastral Ordinance;
(iii)   Review and updating of tables for the valuation of land parcels;
(iv)   The introduction of land value tables and plans for urban areas
where there is no recorded data;
(v)    Valuation of updated real properties based on unit costs of
construction, and the plan of land values for each zone;
(vi)   Owner notification of property values;
(vii)  Preparation of official reports for submission to the Municipal
Department of Finance for:
Settling of Accounts
Billing
Collection



60
ANNEXA4
Page 5 of 26
In order to achieve a target to cover at least 80% of the taxpayers within a period
of 4 years, it is necessary to rely on computers to increase speed and enhance
efficiency.
Technical assistance for improving the fiscal cadastre also includes the regulation
of land tenure in the barrios which are benefitting from investments in the project.
4.    Street Cleaning and Solid Waste Collection:  This area encompasses the
definition of techniques and procedures necessary for the efficient provision of
cleaning and waste collection services by the Municipality. Technical assistance
in this area would include:
a)    Organization of the administrative aspects of cleaning and waste collection
services:
Outlining the administrative structure and creating an
organizational chart;
*     Defining functions and establishing procedures; devising standard
forms and instructions;
*     Designating the layout;
*     Determining the administrative relationship with other units and
organizations;
*     Preparation of the budget;
*     Hiring of personnel;
*     Preparation of a register for service users;
*     Cost control;
*     Reassessment of service taxes;
*     Evaluation and monitoring of the proposed system.
b)    Organizing solid waste collection services:
*     Inventory of property, classified by street, use, and type;



61
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 26
*     Strategy for collection: zones to be served, type of waste to be
collected, personnel, equipment to be used, and time and frequency
of collection;
*     Charting of proposed routes;
*     Adaptation of charted routes;
*     Implementation of operational controls;
*     Selection of waste collection equipment;
*     Evaluation and monitoring of the proposed system.
c)    Organizing street cleaning services:
*     Securing a traffic plan of the city on a scale of 1: 2,500;
3     Indicating traffic signals and other significant traffic flow
information (2-lane streets, expressways, islands, cul-de-sacs, etc.);
*     Charting of specific routes, their adaptation and implementation;
*     Planning of service tasks to be performed either by hand or by
mechanical means, collecting solid waste placed in bins, and waste
from sweeping;
*     Selection and procurement of waste collection equipment;
*     Specification of locations for disposal units, containers, and other
receptacles;
*     Selection and procurement of equipment and tools for street
cleanup;
*     Implementation of operational controls; evaluation and monitoring
of proposed system.
d)    Organization of automotive maintenance, taking into account the design
and implementation of maintenance programs, as well as routine,
preventive, and corrective maintenance for operational equipment, which
includes the following:



62
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 26
*     Establishing a mechanical workshop;
*     Procuring suitable machinery, tools, and spare parts;
*     Implementing administrative and technical controls;
*     Monitoring the results of maintenance work.
5.    Urban Planning: Technical assistance efforts will endeavor to develop guidelines
and norms for rationalizing both public and private determinations regarding land
use and the direction for growth and development of the cities. 'fechnical
Assistance in Urban Planning includes the following:
a)    Analysis of the unit with urban planning responsibility, by means of:
(i)   Interviewing;
(ii)   Reviewing existing land use control instruments;
(iii)   Taking inventory of technical resources and reviewing relevant
legislation.
b)    Forming, or reorganizing, a Municipal Office of Urban Planning by:
(i)    Defining its structure, functions and objectives, taking into
consideration its link with other municipal offices;
(ii)   Preparation of informative manuals.
c)    Orientation on the preparation of the Local Urban Development Plan or
the Basic Land Use Plan, as required.
6.    Project Formulation and Evaluation: Technical assistance efforts will endeavor
to develop local capacity for the preparation and evaluation of infrastructure
investment projects, especially those for low-income neighborhoods (barrios). A
methodological guide will be developed for the assessment of al. aspects of such
projects, including economic and environmental aspects.



63
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 26
111. STRATEGIES AND PROCEDURES
The project will provide technical assistance and training to participating municipalities
by:
1.    Contracting consultants for specific tasks and furnishing equipment needed to
implement technical assistance under the general supervision of FUNDACOMUN;
and by
2.    Providing training courses for improving the technical and administrative capacity
of the Municipal government, offered in two different modes:
a)    One mode will rely on municipal staff attending courses which are
organized and held in different regions of the country (see attached tables).
These courses will be presented by instructors contracted by
FUNDACOMUN.
b)    The second mode will consist of remote training, or sending instructional
material to municipal staff to study. FUNDACOMUN has prior
experience with this type of training.
A summary of training courses to be offered under the program, and course
contents, are presented in the attached Table 3.
3.    Technical Assistance Plans (TAPs) will be prepared based on an analysis of the
specific requirements of participating Municipalities and will include the
following:
*     Objectives;
*     Areas of technical assistance;
*     Elements of technical assistance;
*     Training courses to be taught;
*     Human resources and required materials.



64
APNNE 4
Page 9 of 26
4.    FUNDACOMUN has developed the following strategy for providing technical
assistance to municipalities:
a)    For Munidipalities assisted through its regular program:
FUNDACOMUN will continue to provide technical assistance to
municipalities as part of its standard program under the responsibility of its
Directorate of Municipal Development and the State Directorates,
supported by qualified staff.
b)    For Municipalities assisted through its special program with PDVSA
(the Venezuelan Oil Company) and its affiliates: To carry out this
special program, FUNDACOMUTN relies on assistance provided by
consultants who are contracted based on specified technical assistance
needs of the Municipality. For each Municipality, a multidisciplinary
work team is formed under the guidance of a Coordinator. The work
developed by the team is periodically supervised by FUNDACOMUN by
means of monthly site visits as well as periodic seminars held in Caracas
or in the individual Municipality.
c)    For Municipalities to be assisted under the PROINSOL project The
number of Municipalities to be assisted under the PROINSOL project has
not yet been determined. Nevertheless, the strategy that will be followed
for this program will be similar to that of the special program with
PDVSA.
d)    Technical Assistance Program for Medium-size Cities: Under this
program sponsored by GTZ (the German Agency for Technical
Cooperation), no direct technical assistance is provided to municipalities;
rather, applied research in the areas of municipal government and
municipal administration is carried out with results being fed directly into
FUNDACOMUN's Program of Municipal Development. Here also,
FUNDACOMUN relies on consultants for research.
e)    For Municipalities to be assisted under the proposed project: It is
important to note that the PMU (Project Management Unit) is responsible
for the overall supervision and coordination of the project, including the
municipal training and technical assistance program. Nevertheless, in
order to benefit from the experience and human resources of
FUNDACOMUN's Directorate of Municipal Development, the
responsibility for supervising and coordinating the implementation of the
municipal training and the technical assistance program will remain under
this Directorate. The Director of Municipal Development will hire an



65
ANIEX 4
Page 10 of 26
experienced professional to serve as the General Coordinator for the
program.
5.    In coordinating and supervising the program's implementation, the following steps
would be followed:
a)    Following signing of the participation agreement with the Municipality, the
PMU informs the Directorate of Municipal Development (DMD) on the
matter so that the Directorate may initiate the technical assistance program
with the respective Municipality.
b)    The DMD will prepare profiles of the consultants needed to provide the
analysis and prepare and implement the Technical Assistance Plan (TAP).
c)    The DMD, with the support of the Department of Personnel, seeks the
consultants and forms work teams. Each team will be comprised of six
professionals and will work with one Municipality at a time. These
professionals and a team coordinator will be responsible for each area of
technical assistance. Based on the program's needs, selection of
consultants will be done on a permanent basis.
d)    Professionals will be recruited by FUNDACOMUN from universities,
colleges, specialized institutions, or regional development corporations, or
by individual response to national advertising.
e)    To ensure that the selected professionals are fully familiar with the
objectives of the program and the work they are to perform,
FUNDACOMUN will hold intensive training courses and seminars. Such
training programs will be divided into two parts:
(i)    The first part of the training program is of an informative nature
and will incorporate the following aspects:
*     Full information on FUNDACOMUN:
*     Full information on the proposed project;
*     Specific information will be provided regarding the
fundamentals, elements, and strategy of technical
assistance.



66
ANNEX 4-
Page 11 of 26
(ii)   The second part of the training program will be presented in the
form of seminars which will also be arranged in accordance with
the specific topics of technical assistance:
*     There will be seminars on Cadastre, Municipal
Administration, Municipal Legislation, Solid Waste
Management, and Urban Planning;
*     Each seminar will be coordinated with the Chief of the
corresponding division of the Directorate of Municipal
Development of FUNDACOMUN to ensure that
participants become familiar with the procedures and
methods applied by each division for the provision of
technical assistance;
The seminars will serve to establish and familiarize
participants with the coordination and supervision
mechanisms for the TAPs.
f)    Once work teams are formed, the DMD will assign supervisors, who are
generally responsible for three such teams, on the average. Each
supervisor will be selected and contracted on the basis of terms of
reference prepared jointly by the DMD and PMU, and approved by the
Bank.
g)    Team leaders and supervisors will report to division chiefs in the DMD on
the progress of program implementation.
h)    Teams will be responsible for both the preparation and implementation of
TAPs.
It should also be noted that the DMD will make use of the qualified staff from
FUNDACOMUN's State Directorates to provide support to technical assistance
teams whenever conditions allow.
6.    In selecting municipalities to participate in the technical assistance program,
FUNDACOMUN will apply the following criteria:
a)    First priority will be given for the municipalities participating in the
investnint component of the project.



67
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 26
b)    Of those municipalities participating in the project, priority will be given
to those which exhibit major deficiencies, based on the results of the
analysis completed in the first phase of the technical assistance program,
and which, therefore, have urgent need for technical assistance.
The prog 's training component strategy will consist of grouping municipalities
by region, following their geographic distribution. Breaking down the training
program into regions has two distinct objectives: to facilitate access to
participants, and to make use of some efficiency gains with consequent cost
reductions.
IV.   INSTRUMENTS FOR GATHERING INFORMATION
FUNDACOMUN has developed a comprehensive questionnaire which will serve as the
basis for gathering information needed for the analysis. The questionnaire will be used as
a guideline, while the scope of information gathered will be determined by the specific
requirements of the individual situdtion, and as indicated by the work teams.
V.    TRAINING COMPONENTS
A total of 54 training courses in the areas of Municipal Administration, Municipal
Legisladon, Cadastre, Solid Waste Management, and Urban Planning will be offered over
the project period. Identical training courses will be held in three geographic regions
(Central, Mountains, and East) based on demand or on groupings determined by
FUNDACOMUN. -the full curriculum of courses is indicated by area of training and
region, and the courses are listed in an attached table. The syllabus for each training
course is also attached.
Remote training courses will be offered in two subjects only: Cadastre, and Solid Waste
Management. These courses will be available to all interested municipal staff.
VI.   SUPERVISION AND EVALUATION OF THE MUNICIPAL TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ITTAP)
Ultimate responsibility for the MTTAP will rest with the PMU. To meet this
responsibility, the PMU -"il hire qualified consultants or recruit qualified staff internally.
Supervision of technical assistance will consist of at least one monthh- site visit to the
recipient Municipality. reports will be prepared each month and w;11 be based on the
progress made during program implementation in each participating Municipality.
-  *  v  . . -. 



68
ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 26
VIL DEFAILED DESCRIPTION OF TRAINING COURSES
1.    L
a)    Public Land Administration                       (16 hours)
*     Municipal public land, the concept of regulating public land
under local government ordinances, national laws, and the
Constitution of the Republic;
*     Legal requirements determined by the Administration for
Public and Municipal Land. General characteristics of
ownership, and administrative procedures;
*     Division of Common and Municipal land, general
characteristics and administrative procedures;
*     Acquisition of public land, procedures;
*     General principles of public land administration under the
Administration of Common and Public Land.
b'    Municipal Ordinances                            (16 hours)
*     Municipal judicial instruments: Ordinances, Agreements,
Resolutions, By-Laws, Decrees, definitions and
classification;
*     Framework of a preliminary ordinance plaii, the formal
aspects; legislation and all ordinances;
*     Legal principles of Municipal power;
*     Judicial ordinances of the Municipality.



69
ANNEX 4
Page 14 of 26
c)    The Municipal Treasury                             (46 hours)
*     General principles of the role of the Municipal Public
Treasury within the framework of an autonomous
municipality.
*     Constitutional decisions and the Organic Laws of the
Municipal Plan. Budgetary jurisdiction, the Municipal
National Treasury, Public Credit, and the Code of Organic
Taxation;
*     Municipal properties and general classification.
Characteristics of administration. Public Treasury
Ordinances, and ordinances pertaining to both public and
Municipal land;
*     Contracts of the Municipality and basic standards of
contracting;
*     Administrative contracts: general characteristics,
procedures, and importance;
*     Non-tax Ordinary Revenues and general characteristics.
Administration revenues and the exploitation of Municipal
Property. Revenues from Municipal financial activities, the
Municipal unit and standards goveming revenues.
Extraordinary non-tax revenues, general characteristics;
*     Municipal Taxes: taxation as the primary source of revenue
for the municipal govemment, and characteristics of
municipal tax. The "Patent" on Industry and Commerce
(tax on local businesses). Urban real estate tax, vehicle
licensing, public entertainment tax, gambling, and
commercial advertising;
The Municipal tax plan and its taxing power, classification
of taxes and standards which govem municipal taxation.
Tax codes and specific ordinances;
Municipal taxation for public sanitary services and supplies,
taxation for administrative services of same. Standards
governing the principal taxes of the municipality. Other
municipal taxes and special betterment levies.



70
ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 26
2.    Municipal Administration
a)    Workshop on Budget Formulation                   (48 hours)
*     The Municipal budget for local planning. The budget as an
instrument of planning. The program budget;
*     Legal principles of the budge-tary system;
*     Phases of the budgeting process: formulation of the budget,
implementation, control, and evaluation;
*     Formulation and preparation of the Municipal Budget;
*     Formulation of budgeting policies, preparation of
preliminary budget proposals by each unit., *afting of
relevant municipal ordinances;
*     Budget ordinances: contents, general features, revenue and
the expenditure budget;
*     Practice exercises.
b)    Workshop on Budket Accounting                    (48 hours)
*     Municipal budget accounting and its legal base;
*     Phases of expense execution and recording period;
*     Covering expenses and meeting obligations;
*     Classification of Payment Orders and issuance procedures.
Standard system forms;
*     Development of a practical exercise on budget accoanting.



71.
MANNEX4
Page 16 of 26
c)    Workshop on Fiscal Accounting                     (48 hours)
*     Method for implementing the Fiscal Accounting System;
*     Fiscal accounting and its legal basis;
*     Catalogue of entries for fiscal accounting;
*     Verification and conciliation of bank statements;
*     Accounting records: Principal and Auxiliary;
*     Updating accounting records, separating bank accounts from
special funds accounts;
-      JUse of the ledger and auxiliary books.
d)    Tax Collection and Census of Taxpayers            (48 hours)
Constitutional principles of the tax system and taxing power
of the municipality;
*     Collection system: participating units and functions;
*     Methods of collection: direct, institutionaL or through
collectors;
-     Delinquent accounts;
*     Use of incentive or enforcement mechanisms for collecting
taxes.
3.    Munipal Cadastre
a)    Cadastral Assessment                              (40 hours)
*     General overview of the Municipal Cadastre, organization
of the Municipal Cadastre office. Duties carried out in
accordance with guidelines established by cadastral
ordinances. Basic human, material, and economic resources
required to create the Municipal Cadastre Office. Structure
of the cadastral system and the importance of information



72
ANNEX 4
Page 17 of 26
contained in the cadastral form. The relationship between
the Municipal Cadastral Office and other executive
branches and organizations. Preparation of tables for
assessing the value of construction, assessment of unit costs,
depreciation by age and obsolescence. Purpose of cadastral
valuation incorporating the massive value of construction;
Assessment of land. Analysis of information provided by
various sources, including the public registry, declared taxes
paid by taxpayers, functional analysis of basic public
services. Establishing indices for annual revaluation and tax
increases, identification of land parcel type, depreciation
factors including vo.dth, length, and form of the lots.
Adjustment factor. Massive assessment of land, real
property. Fixing the value for each land parcel. Individual
assessments in special cases. Calculation of effective real
estate taxes based on the application of the Tax Ordinance
on Real Urban Property.
b)    Organization of Cadastre Offices.
Tax Rolls and Cadastral Registry                  (40 hours)
*     G;eneral overview of the Municipal Urban Cadastre and its
function within the organizational structure of tlhe
Municipality's Urban Cada, 're Ordinance. Ordinances
which govern cadastral formation. RelatiorLship between
the Municipal Cadastre Office and other branches of the
Municipality. Basic human, material, and economic
resources required for the optimum performance of the
Municipal Urban Cadastre Office. Conformation of the
cadastral terminology, and utilization of the information
retrieved from the cadastral questionnaire;
Purpose of the Cadastral Registry and files. Methodology
for incorporating the cadastral riles and ownership data.
Classification criteria and advantages of the system.
Registering real property in the Municipal Cadastre office
and determining real estate value. Determination and
registration of tax. Identirication and spelling out of
requirements and procedures for updating cadastral records
with information from the Offices of Municipal
Engineering, Public Registry, and Sanitary Engineering.
Procedures for obtaining information from the Public



73
ANNEX 4
Page 18 of 26
Registry. Legal procedures to follow for record-keeping,
legal filings, and cadastral documents.
c)    Cadastral Inventory                              (40 hours)
*     General information on the Municipal Cadastre. The
function of the Municipal Cadastre within the
organizational structure of the Mi'nicipality. Legisiation
governing the formation of the cadastre. Relationship
between the Municipal Cadastre Office and other branches
of the Municipality. Minimum human, material, and
economic resources required for the optimum performance
of the Municipal Urban Cadastre Office. Conforming
cadastral terminology;
*     Methodology for designing the cadastral questionnaire and
extracting useful information. Land survey, area calculation,
and topography. Principal and secondary development.
Precision tools and instruments utilized, types of leveling,
system tolerance. Use of techniques to calculate land and
construction areas. Use of case studies.
4.    Solid Waste Management
a)    Regulatorv Aspects of Municipal Services          (24 hours)
*     Constitutional, national and state regulatory framework:
public service, the concept, municipal ordinances, and the
ability to provide such services;
*     Modalities for providing municipal public services. The
Municipal Public Services concession.
b)    Operational Aspects of Solid Waste Service        (16 hours)
*     General considerations regarding solid waste: its
conditioning and collection;
*     Solid waste disposal.



74
ANNEX 4
Page 19 of 26
c)    Basic Principles of Eguipment Maintenance       (16 hours)
*     Basic concepts of maintenance: objectives and purpose;
*     Maintenance systems: planning, programming, and
controlling.
5.    Urban Planning
a)    Urban Planning                                  (16 hours)
*     Urbanization and municipal administrative processes;
*     The urban planning function of the municipal governments;
the power of the municipality and its legal base;
*     Local urban planning and development, special plans.
Preparation, approval, and implementation of the plans;
participation of citizens;
*     Effects of urban planning on the municipal administrations.
b)    Implementing Urban Planning                     (16 hours)
*     Alternate approaches for urban planning;
*      JUrbanization and construction, applicable standards in the
areas of planning, resources, and materials;
*     Controlling urbanization and construction.
c)    Land Use Controls                               (16 hours)
*     Zoning: the concept of zoning, its purpose, and
importance;
*     Zoning ordinances: typical elements of a zoning ordinance;
Practical application of a zoning ordinance as an instrument
of control and urban development, and as an incentive
mechanism for development;



75
ANNEX 4
Page 20 of 26
*     Justification for zoning, local participation, applicable
standards, and scope.



VENEZUELA
LOW-'NCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
Table 4.1: rraining Courses by Region and Year
TOTAL
MEOU4       Vew    _     md*g Lmgflauon _IN_WAt ADNIISTRATION                                  CADAStRE               SOLIU WASIE MANAGEMENT                PLANNIFf COUtSES
PER YEAR
C.trd        11112    T The I i  T.retw            - Stdgel Fobd.tbla Worehope           Oitganizoii of the Cidaime    The Refid,toiy Asptes al        UtWet Plemi Ig *ac
Colbctbon Tex wid Txpewpy  Ceotn     office                        Puibl Si*ee                    M.MkiCl Rempovablity         6
- Cad*Bedl Reftby mid F
1113    Tax btn te  nd               -i dsl Pe ntidetlon Woihehop          NPeuly V*6 Aecetint           - Optowuln  Aspects of Pc        Laid Use Ccnbple              6
L_ t ibon                    AccoSotIP Woiletop_                                                 Service
ISM4    Ad,,Anletretcn of P1ch  Lawd  Flel Accounthin                      Cadastrd StSre        8nbet PFlncle of 4intereuice                                           4
16,9                                  BvSet Faqudtlo Wo  he,op
- udget y Atccoumbuig Wo-ibebp                                                                                                     2
TOTAL              |              3                                7                                 3             1                               1              2                  t1 l
CETlAtL   I      L
tee A        lde  1112    The Usulipe T _mm        Iu-t Forsiejeion Workshop            Ouguen thn of the Crdent,.    The RPgeletsvr A _ d1          . tbeen PI     eto &
Culod. Te  d Tesmy.. Cawmu          Olfic                          P c S                           Muild   R.epnrt               e 
_  Cadet  iFt ry e rod e_                                                    _
-13      T  kiwnua mhd          -        laeet Foiion workemhop            PItpmFt Vths Asm-ew            Opwalbond Aspectd of tiblla     Laid Us C.ne
Lt se.n Ced.st  Appwel                                                                           Se                                                            B
.m Idgew  AcoumutkiWkshop
1,94     Abdltratimn of pubic L*id    - Flea Accountirg                    Cednttw Se            8        eth         a of di.i_                                        4
1  bidge Fonistn Wbn -bap
_tditesi  Accowning  oose*hop                                                                                                    2
TOTAL WOS                         3                                7                                J3                                                           2                   Is
n      111112  |  The me     T_t           |  Woedop on 8ubdus Fenimtb |n    O t lfstbn of thw C        _    | re  The R_r aty As     d  |of     Udbs PwF_ as a  
|  |                       | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oleabin Tiix *rd T nxaw Ce  |  OXlke                  tub FZU k o StLv |   a 1   R                  ty              a
1111111|  To xanaK wW                  Budg e     Fw tEin W t*Op       PT       pt Vr      As.   .       Opsenald Aepeeb of Pbdb           L -tW U" C b        |m
Legkslaoln                I   idgetery Acco nti_ Woreho p                                        Sort.,                                                   _ S
it"   * AINikiletration of   Lai    *Iecd Acco.utig                        Cadetru SurIy Besi Pttncipfe ci Melftefic                                                    4
| Il |dls                      ne | uidgiut F c mlAede                               6r               |  Bon Woietup    10p
__________             Bud~~~~~~&ftgetar Accountin Workshop                                                                                              2
i= .T        i                             T                                    i                              i                              1 
_~~~ =                                                                            1                               17
TORIEIIT                           .;            j i1                                |      _      __         _ J   |      _      __         _ J    |6                                e_
T.A'                                                                                                                                                                            -    = le
COtJRSE 9                                                         21                                 9                              9 |   sl



VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
Table 4.2: Men-Month Required for Implemention of TAPs
|  1992   |t 1993                    1994               1995       I      TOTAL
Consultants    Staff    No.     Staff     No.       Staff   |No.      Staff     No.     Staff      No.      Staff
AREA             par        Months   Mu       Months    Mun.    Months    Mun.   Months   Mun.   Months    Mun.    Months
Municipality  _ _ _ _          _ _ _ _I                                                _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _
Municipal          1           6        6        36       26        156       18      108       -         -        50       300
Legislation                                                                            0                                 F
Tax              3          36        6       216       26       936       18       648       -        -         50      1800  |        
Administration                                                                           0             _ _       I        I          I
Cadastre           1           6        6       36        26       156       18       108       -        -         50       300
l  .0                                  I I  _
Urban Planning        1           6       6        36       26        156       18      108      s-                  50       300
0 o                I                       I ___
Public            1           6        6       36        26       156       18       108      -         -        50       300
Services                                                                              0                         ______|
Provect
Preparationand        1           6        6       36        26       156       18       108     s-                  50       300
Evaluation                          0I_ __ _ __I__ _ _                                                                    _ _I_ _
Teamn Coorlinator
1          14       6        84       26        364       18      2'_.                         s o 50   700
TOTAL             9           80               480                2080               1440                                 4000
Ot1
MTrAP-2
Jau92



VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
Table 4.3: Staff Months Required for Preparation of TAPs
1992               1993               1994                1995               TOTAL
Consultdnts     Staff  jj No. |   Staff       N No. ||  Staff    No.      Staff      No1    Staff       No.1    Staff
AREA           per         Months    Mun.    Months    Mun.    Months    Mun.    Months    Mun.    Months    Mun.    Months
Mun.            Mun.                Mun.   I            Mun.       -       Mun.  |             Mun.           |   Mun.
LsMun             1            3         6[        18       26        78        18       54    |                      50        150                   oO
Legislation                                                                                             |   
Tax            3            9         6         54       26        234       18       162                           s o 50   450
Admnimstration
Cadastre         1            3          6        18        26       78      i18         54        -                  50        150
Urban Planning      1            3         6         18       26        78        18       54                  -    | O           150
Public          1            3         6         1S       26        78        18       54                           s o 50    150
Services
Project
Preparation
and            1            3         6         18       26        79        18       54    |                      50        150
Evaluation   _                                 _                  _                   ______             ______
Team            1            3         6         18       26        78        18       54                            o -  50  150
Coordinator                                   | _                  _         |_______
TOTAL           9            27                  162                702                486                                    1350
M1TAP-3
JAN'W2



79
ANNEX 4
Page 24 of 26
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
Table 4.4: Summary Costs for Preparation of TAPs
MontMonth  Ii   1992    ii    1993    |    1994    1a95
Ares        Munroipality     (6 Mun)        t26 Mun)       (18 Mun)                      TOTAL
_________________  lj______                 |     88. J              --.  e   |   BS.. l__so._as
Muricipal         3            1,860,000    1t860,000  7  5,580.000                      15,500,000
Legislation
Tax             9           5,580.000     24,180.000     16.740,000                   46,500,000
Administration
Csdastre          3           1,860,000      1,860,000     5,580.000                    15.500.000
Public           3           1,860,000      1.860,000     5,580,000                    15.500.000
Services
Urban Planning        3           1.860,000      1.860.000      5,580,000                    15,500.000
Project
Preparation
and             3           1,860,000      1.860.000      5,580,000
Evaluation
Tearn            3           1.860,000      1,860.000     5,580.000                    15,500.000
Coordinator
TOTAL            27          16.740.000     72.540.000    50,220.Ot.                   1 139.500.000
TOTAL US$                        279,000      1.205.000       837,000          0          2,325.000
(Us. 60/8)
'TTAP4
W92



80
ANNEX 4
Page 25 of 26
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
Table 4.5: Summary Costs for Implementation of TAPs
Man/Month         1992           1993           1994           1996
Arm          Municipality     ( Mun)        (26 Mun)        (18 Mun)                      TOTAL
I                    L.  8s~~~~~~~~~~B.    Beo.           B.             Be.
Munkipal           6           4.920,000     21.320,000     14,760.000                    41,000,000
Legislation
Tax             6           29,S40,000    127,920,000     88,560,000                   246.020,000
Administration
Cadastra          6           4,920,000      21,320,000     14,760,000                   41.000,000
Public           6           4,920.000     21,320,000      14,760,000                   41,000.000
Services
Urban Planning       6           4,920.000     21.320,000     14,760,000                    41.000.000
Project
Preparation
and             6           4,920,000      21,320,000     14,760,000                   41.000,000
Evaduation
I Tooam          6           11.520,000    49,920.000     34,560,000                    96.000,000
Coordinator
TOTAL            66          65,660,000     284,440,000    196,920,000                  547,020,000
L TOTAL US$                       1,094,333       4,740.667      3,282.000         0           9,117,000
(L..   .             .        _      .              .                     ._.         .
MTTAP46
J&uW92



VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Program
Table 4.6: Estimated Number of Panicipants in the Training Progran
(per category of municipalities)
WMuicipal                   Tax                                              Public                   Urban
Number ot    I         Legilation sAdinistration                           Cadastra               - Services                Planning
Municipalitias   -        -                                                                                                                      Total
per Category    No.       No.     Total   No.       No.    Total   No.       No.    Total   No.      No.    Total   No.        No     Total   Participants
Pard.   Courses           Parti.  Courses          Parti.  Courses          Pari.  Courses           Parti.  Courses
121 A)          36        3       108     48        7       336    24        3       72     24        3       72     24        2       48       636
___                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
22 18B          44        3       132      44       7       308    22        3       66      22       3       66     22        2       44       616
43IC)           44        3        129     43       7       301    43        3       129    43        3      129    43         2       86       774
Total                              369                       945                     267                      267                      178      2,026
Paricipants
Total No.                  9                        21                        9                       9                        6                  54
Coursai                __  _ __                                             _ __  ___                  _ _
Ly Categories: a) 60.000 <pop <100,000 inhb.
bi 100.001 <pop <250.000 inhab.
ci Above 250 000 inhab.
MMV-6
0s 



82
Page 1 of 1
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
(millions of US dolUars)
A.Infrastructure and Solid Waste
A.1 Infrastructure                                      28.4     17.1    45.5      37.6%       65.9%
- Water Supply                                           5.7      3.8     9.5      40.3%       13.8%
- Sewerase                                               6.9      4.7    11.6      40.3%       16.8%
- Electricity                                            3.8      2.5     6.3      40.3%        9.1%
- Drainage                                              4.1       2.8     6.9      40.3%      lQ.%
- PavinR                                                5.7       2.5     8.2      31.0%       11.9%
- Design / Supervision                                  2.2       0.8,    3.0      25.0%        4.3%
A.2 Municipal Services                                   0.5      4.2     4.7      90.0%        6.8%
- Sold Waste Equipment                                                                         _ n
Sub-total    28.8      21.3    50.2      42.5%      72.7%
B. Institutional Development
I B.1 Municipal Training and Technical Assistance Pro ram  9.7      4.2    13.9      30.2%       20.2%
- Training                                               0.8      0.2     1.0      19.7%        1.4%
- Technical Assistance (PATI)                            8.8      2.9    11.7      2S.0%       17.0%
- Equipment                                              0.1      1.1     1.2      90.0%        1.7%
B.2 FUNDACOMUN Sirengthening ProBmf    3.1                        1.0     4.1      24.2%        5.9%
- Trainin                                                0.5      0.1     0.6      19.7%        0.9%
- Proiect Management                                     1.2      0.4     1.6      2S.0%        2.3%
- Institutional Dev Plan                                 0.2      0.1     0.2      25.0%        0.3%
- Manazement Info System                                 1.3      0.4     1.71     2S.0%        2.5I
B3 Studies                                               0.61     0.2     0.81     30.0%1       12
- Studies                                                                                l
Sub-total    13.4       L4    18.8       28.9%      27.3%
TOTAL  BASE! COSmS    42             a&    6o          3         1U0 QI
Physical Contingencies   4.2      2.7     6.9
Price Contingencies   5.9       3.7     9.6
ToTA i PROJECT COSTS  AU    VA
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Dat: 0306M?



VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Millions of US dollars
1     19921 1993       19941      19951     19961       19971    Totall   %total 
A. Infrastructure and Solid Waste
A .1   Infrastructu me_            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ __             _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
- Wateir Supply                                              1.1    1.91      2.3        2.5       2.5         1.5      11.9      13.9%
- Severage                                                   1.5    2.3       2.7        2.8       3.0         2.2      14.5      16.9%
- Electricity                                                0.6    1.6       1.6        1.5       1.7         0.8       7.8       9.2%
- Drainage                                                   0.6    1.6       2.1        1.8       1.7         0.8       8.6      10.0%
- Paving                                                     0.8    1.9.      2.2.       2.0       2.0         1.4      10.2      12.0%
- Design/Supervision                                         0.3    0.7       0.8        0.7       0.8         0.5       3.7       43%
A.2 Municipal Services
j-S olid Waste Equipment                               1      0.51   131        1.61       1.41      0.51        051       5.81      6.8%1
Sub-total        5.4   11.3       13.2      12.7       12.2        7.7      62.5      73.1%
B. Institutional Development                                                                                                                         
B.1 Municipal T-aining and Technical Assistance Program
- Training                                          [I__   0.1   0.21         0.21       0.31      0.31        0.11      1.21i     1.5%1
- Tech Assistance (PATI)                                     1.8   3.21       2.9       2.9        2.9         0.71     14.41     16.8%
- Equipment              _ 0.01051                                          0.5j      0.5=    0.0Q           0.01      1.51      1.7%
B.2 FUNDACOMUN  Strengthening Progtram
- Training                                                  0.1 1 0.1         0.1        0.)       0.1         0.11      0.7       0.9%
- eroject Management                                 I      0.3 I 0.4T        0.41       0.41      0.31-       0.3F      2.01      2.3%l
- Institutional Dev Plan                                    0.1    0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0 I0.0     0.2                0.3%
- Management Info System                                    0.31   0.61       0.71      0.41       0.01        0.01      2.01      2.4%
B.3 Studies
-Studies                                             I      0.21   0.21       0.21      0.31       0.01        0.01      1.01      1.1%]
Sub-total        3.1    5.3       5.1        4.9       3.6         1.2       23.1     26.9%
TOTALS          8.4   16.6       18.3      17.6       15.8        8.9      85.6                1  >
Bank financed       4.5    8.4        8.7       83         6.8        3.3       40.0              @w IZ
Note: Totdis may not add up due to rounding                                                                                                     X
Date: 03Ao"2 



84
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECr
Outline Terms of Reference
for the
Ptroject Monitoring System
OBJECFIVE
1.    The Consultant should develop a project monitoring system is to provide managers with
timely information as to the progress of project implementation and accurate status of sub-
projects financed under the Loan.
TIMING
2.    A consultant is to be selected under Bank guidelines and should be hired by September
30, 1992. Final Terms of Reference should be submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1992 for
approval. The consultant would then have 3 months to develop the project monitoring system for
review and approval 'y FUNDACOMUN and the Bank. The consultant would then spend the
next six months, in conjunction with FUNDACOMUN, implementing the system and training the
FUNDACOMUN staff. The system should be fully operational prior to the Bank's disbursement
on the first year investment program.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.    In general, the system should enable the manager to: (a) identify institutional, technical
and financial bottlenecks: (b) support annual planning and adjustment; (c) compare
implementation of each component against the original design; and (d) evaluate result of the
operations, both quantitativelv (financial and operational indicators) and qualitatively
(effectiveness of the institutiAlc development programs, including training).



85
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
4.    More specifically, the system should address, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) Track municipal sub-projects by contract, and demonstrate the status of the sub-
projects and corresponding contracts. Part of this process would be using local staff to
perform periodic field visits to check progress of the work (i.e. % completed vs the %
billed). Consultant should develop a systematic way to transfer: i) findings of the local
staff in the field to FUNDACOMUN; and ii) information between municipalities and
FUNDACOMUN. The system should be able to be used directly for applications for
payment from the special account (SOEs), and should have built in "flagging
mechanisms" to check eligibility of sub-projects, contract bids within the Bank's
procurement limits, etc.
(b) Monitor the Institutional Development component, including training and technical
assistance. Since this requires a more qualitative approach to measuring effectiveness at
both the FUNDACOMUN and municipal level, careful consideration must be given to
designing the system to handle this component. The Bank has additional information
available on the monitoring of this component.
(c) Monitor financial and operational information of overall project, including: i) special
account transactions; ii) request for reimbursements; iii) requests for payment from the
municipalities; iv) payments to the municipalities; and v) FUNDACOMMUN's project
accounts transactions.
S.    The consultant should:
(a) Design the system conceptually, then decide software and hardware requirements.
System must be designed with sufficient flexibility so that modifications can be made to
account for chaiging project needs.
(b) Provide sufficient training and support to the FUNDACOMUN staff responsible for
the project monitoring function to fully implemnent the monitoring system within a six
month period. Operational manuals must be written clearly and with sufficient detail so
that modifications and fine tuning of the system can be made by the staff.
(c) Provide concise summary reports to the FUNDACOMUN administrators and the
Bank. These reports should make-up the bulk of dhe semi-annual reports. All report
summaries to the Bank should be denominated in   US$ equivalent.



86
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
6.    The follo-;ing is a partial list of financial and operational indicators which should be
included in the project monitoring system:
FUNDACOMUN:
*     No. of municipalities currently participating (out of 78 eligible).
*     No. of participating municipalities over life of project.
*     No. of cumulative sub-projects approved.
*     Cumulative sub-projects committed ($).
*     Cumulative sub-projects released ($)
*     Ave. Sub-project evaluation/approval time (days).
*     No. Disbursement requests received/month.
*     Disbursement processing Time (days).
*     Ave. Sub-project value ($).
*     Ave. contract value ($).
*     No. of families directly benefitted.
*     Ave. cost of service per family (for each type of service).
*     Appreciation of real property values in benefiting barr os.
MUNICIPALITIES:
*     % Water coverage (households).
*     % Sewer coverage (households).
*     % Pavement coverage (of total roads).
*     Municipal tax revenue/total revenue.
X     Municipal savings/total revenue
*     Municipal debt/total revenue.
MUNICIPAL & FUNDACOMUN TRAINING:
*     No. of cumulative courses conducted.
*     Total participants trained.
- Municipalities
- FUNDACOMUN
- Instructors
- Managerial
- Technical
- Other
*     No. of municipalities participating over life of project.
*     No. of municipalities currently participating.



87
A.NNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
RESOURCES
1.    It is anticipated that 10 man-months will be required to develop and implement the
Project Monitoring System. Also included in this figure is the training of the FUNDACOMUN
staff and the development of the operational manual.
2.    The qualifications of the consultant should include: (a) previous experience with an
integrated financial and operational project monitoring system, preferably in the public sector; (b)
expertise in fancial/accounting procedures; (d) experdse in software and hardware applications.
It would be desirable that the consultant have familiarity with Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures, and/or have familiarity with Central Bank procedures.



88
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECr
Supervision Plan
I. Bak Survisio
1.    The main emphasis during the initial project phase would be to: (a) review the
development and implementation of the project monitoring system; (b) make certain that
FUNDACOMUN staff is adequately familiar with Bank procurement guidelines, Bank
disbursement procedures (i.e. Special Account transactions) and BanL independent auditing
requirements; (c) establish a system to evaluate the municipalities for participation in the
program; and (d) help FUNDACOMUN's development of a strategy to properly promote the
project to eligible municipalities and promote the project to the Venezuelan public. Many of
these items would be addressed in the project launch workshop scheduled for November 1992.
During project implementation, the supervision missions would need to conduct the following
activities in the field on a regular basis in addition to monitoring project progress: (a) review a
sampling of contract bids and awards; (b) inspect disbursement procedures and record keeping;
(c) inspect adequacy of supervision and monitoring of the municipalities and respective
subprojects; (d) review performance and accuracy of the Project Monitoring System; (e) complete
a mid-term review in June of 1995 examining progress made, assessing the relevance of project
objectives and actions, and recommend appropriate revisions (as needed). Supervision missions
in the field should attempt to visit one or more municipalities during each trip. A preliminary
schedule of supervision missions including key activities is indicated in the table on the following
page. The key activities shown are in addition to the regular supervision needs, which include
review of: (a) progress reports; (b) procurement issues; (c) disbursements; (e) Project
Implementation Plan; (f) Project Operations Manual; (g) yearly independent audits; (h)
correspondence; and (i) unforseen issues.
2.    The Bank project team would consist of the Task Manager (Urban Management
Specialist), an Economist/Financial Analyst, and a sanitary/Water Engineer. Consultants are
anticipated to be required on a short term basis to assist in specific areas, such as analysis of
monitoring system, review of institutional development programs, etc. Supervision requirements
for the project are expected to be high due to: (a) the complexity of the institutional
atrangements, (b) the anticipated large number of small scale subprojects; (c) FUNDACOMUN's
lack of experience with Bank procedures; and (d) institutional weakness of FUNDACOMUN
(requiring significant training and technical assistance). Supervision requirements are anticipated
to be about 16 staff-weeks during the first year and about 12 staff-weeks thereafter. A summary
of key inputs is provided on the following page.



89
Page 2 of 3
II. Borrower's Contribution to Supervsion
FUNDACOMUN is expected to: (a) be responsible for project monitoring and coordination,
keeping the Project Monitoring System accurate, and to follow-up and address all issues which
are "signaled" by the system; (b) be responsible for properly managing all procurement and
disbursement considerations, keeping procurement and disbursement records up to date; (c)
prepare progress reports in January and August of each year; and (d) be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for the Bank supervision missions.



90
ANNEX 8
Page 3 oi 3
III. Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
.   .,   .   .  .   .  ...........  . _ _ _ _  .................   ...- ____._.._ I
Approx.                  Key Activities                        Expected Skill           Staff
Dates   j                                                     Requirements              Input
staff-wks
8/92        Supervision Mission-Project Effectiveness    Urban Management Specialist     4.5
(review: (i} conditions for project       Economist/Financial Analyst
effectiveness - PIP, POM, and Monitoring    Engineer
system; and (ii) special coordinating     Audit specialist
arrangements devised among several
sectoral agencies participating in project
implementation and (iii) existing financial
and accounting systems/procedures)                                                      l
11/92       Supervision Mission                       Urban Management Specialist        4.5
(Project Launch Workshop, Review Project   Economist/Financial Analyst
Monitoring System)                        Disbursement Specialist
________________________________________   Procurement Specialist
3/93        Supervision Mission                       Urban Management Specialist        4.0
(review Project Monitoring System         Economist/Financial Analyst
Training/Implementation, Institutional    Engineer
development including training programs)    Consultant
9/93        Supervision Mission                       Urban Management Specialist        3.0
(Review results of 1 st year Independent  Audit Specialist
audit)
2/94        Supervision Mission.                      Urban Management Specialist        3.0
(Concentrate on subprojects: i) contracts;    Engineer
l____________  ii) eligibility/limits; iii) costs; iv) status)                                       l
8/94        Supervision Mission                       Urban Management Specialist        4.0
(concentrate on disbursements, financial  Economist/Financial Analyst
status, Institutional development)        Consultant                                    l
11/94       Supervision Mission                       Urban Management Specialist        3.0
(concentrate on subproject status,        Engineer
l _________    procurement)                                                                         l
1995       Three Supervision Missions                 Urban Management Specialist        4.0
(including Mid-Term Review in June 1995)  Economist/Financial Analyst        4.0
Engineer                          4.0
Consultant
1996       Three Supervision Missions                 Urban Management Specialist        4.0
(begin negotiations of follow-up loan, if  Economist/Financial Analyst       4.0
mid-term review is favorable)             Engineer                           4.0
Consultant                                   l
1997       Two Supervision Missions-Loan Closing      Urban Management Specialist        4.0
(Project closing, Final negotiations for  Economist/Financial Analyst        4.0
follow-up loan)                           Engineer                         I



91
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
VENEZUELA
LOW INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(millions of US dollars)
FIBRll) -'    Serester; -  - - Disbursement- :  -iCumulative Disbursement 1
in; S;emeter      Aon *--           of total
1993 [     Dec 31, 1992*]             7.01            7.01         17.5%
1       Jun 30, 19931            4.21           11.21         27.9%
19941       Dec 31, 19931             4.21           15.41         38.4%
__ Jun30, 1994           4.3            19.7          49.2%
19951       Dec 31, 19941             4.371          24.1 T        60.1%|
1    - Jun 30, 19951             4.21           28.21         70.5%
19961       Dec 31, 1995 |            4.21           32.4          80.9%
1   0 0  Jun 30, 19961           3.4            35.8          89.4%
19971       Dec 31, 19961             3-41           39.21         98.0%|
1 0    Jun 30, 1997* * 1         0.41           39.61         98.9%
19981      Dec 31, 1997**             0.51           40.01        100.0%
Notes:
* includes US$2.5 million initial deposit to Special Account
** includes disbursement slow down deriving from running down of Special
Account (total US$2.5 million).
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Date: 03/06/92



92
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Prior Review Threshold:
Sample Contract Profile by Value/Number
Estimated             Cumuls i.ve             Percentage
Range of             value (no.) of          value (no.)              of total
contract valus        contracts within           above                 value (no.)
(incl. contingencies)     each range              threshold                above
(USS thousand4         (USS million)          (US$ million)             threshold
_   (1)    _           (2)                    (3)                    (4)
Works
500  and  tabove       24.1  (35)                  24.1    (35)              50    ( 7)
200  to   499          12.6  (41)                  36.7   (76)               73    (15)
25  to   199           9.1  (185)                 45.8  (261)               94    (52)
o  to   24            2.9  (239)                 48.7  (500)              100   (100)
Duration ofprocurement is aboutfive years.
Goods
200  and  above         4.9  ( 18)                  4.9    (18)              51    (12)
100  to   199           2.5  ( 20)                  7.4    (38)              77   (25)
25  to   99            1.5  (48)                   8.9    ( 86)             93   (57)
O  to   24            0.7  ( 64)                  9.6   (150)             100   (100)
Duration of Procurement is aboutfive years.
Apr'92



93
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 1
VENEZUELA
LOW-INCOME BARRIOS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Documents in Project Files
1.  "Programa de Fortalecimiento InstitLcional de FUNDACOMUN y de Asistencia Tecnica
a los Municipios Participantes en el PROMUEBA", FUNDACOMUN, January 1992.
2. "Guia Metodoidgica para la Elaboraci6n de Proyectos de Acueducto", FUNDACOMUN,
1992.
3. "Guia Metodol6gica para la Elabor.ci6n de Proyectos de Alcantarillado",
FUNDACOMUN, 1992.
4. "Guia Metodol6gica para la Elaboraci6n de Proyectos de Electricidad",
FUNDACOMUN, 1992.
5. "Guia Metodologica para la Elaboraci6n de Proyectos de Vialidad", FUNDACOMUN,
1992.
6. "Guia Metodol6gica para la Elaboraci6n de Proyectos de Drenaje", FUNDACOMUN,
1992.
7. "Guia Metodoldgica para la Elaboracidn de Documentos", FUNDACOMUN, 1992.
8. "Indicadores para Calculo de Costos Referenciales", FUNDACOMUN, 1992.
9. "Ficha de Identificaci6n Presupuestos Tipos y Detalles por Sectores", FUNDACOMUN,
1992.
10. Municipio Maturfn (Estado Monagas), Volumes I and II.
11. Municipio Monagas (Estado Guarico), Volumes I and II.
12. Municipio Torres (Estado Lara), Volumes I and II.
13. Mission Working Files.



f.                                                                                                              GRENADA
1_ r                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I uC-
TRINIDAD
AND
.' .
/                                                                                       C'
0
6  4                        _  < tw t . . ., ; , g G U Y A N A o
VENEZUELA                                                              v;sx                                                
-m_ms oiifi.lds    \ ,   -    f    G_   ~   ~                              .= 
Elevations :                                                               ='
-4=   0- 500 -                                                                                                                                                                                              A- -   s
200-
./6 2                                                                                                          60:
__   Mljor Roads                                                                                                                                                                                  51 lUcA
- Rivers                                                                                                                                                             AR UT ve _s                     D 54ArsAG
o     Selected Cities and Towns                                     =                                                       8                                                                       ASIDA
*     State or Federal Territory Capitals                                                                                          *                                            c=-'
C  0  National Capitals                                                                                                                       2                     )
State or Federal Territory Boundories                  "   y        \t                              -
International Boundaries                                                                                       = -  J 7
- '               ~                            O  M. A            S                 ,g      S;COLOMBIA  p
0            G10          2G0           300                                                              ,-                     B  R  A  Z  ILNAAE
KILOMETERS                                                      _RAZIL. 



