ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorld Froc of Povorty
InfoShop
PtY Jmi 4. K)'
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/30/2002                           24261
Section I - Basic Information                                 May 30, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GRENADA                                Project ID: P076715
Project: Grenada: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control  Task Team Leader: Patricio V. Marquez
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 15. 2002       IBRD Amount ($m): 2.92
Bank Approval: June 28, 2002                    IDA Amount ($m): 2.92
Managing Unit: LCSHI                            Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: HEALTHINUTRITION/POPULATION
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Government has decided to develop a HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project to be funded under
the Multi-Country APL for the Caribbean Region, with the following objectives:
a)     Reducing the morbidit) and mortality attributed to HIV/AIDS;
b)    Improving the quality cf life for Persons Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWAs); and
c)     Developing a sustainable organizational and institutional framework for managing the HIVIAIDS
epidemic over the longer term.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Project activities aim at addressing the whole population and special high risk groups such as HIV/AIDS
pregnant women, children born from HIV/AIDS mothers, adolescents, sex workers,
men-having-sex-with-men (MSM), persons with sexually transmitted infections (STIs), uniformed
personnel, hotel and tourism workers. 35% of the population lives in St. George (the capital), and the
remainder can be reached within 15 minutes to one hour by road. This population distribution in a small
country makes less difficult to i-each target groups. The activities selected for project support have been
grouped into four components:
Component 1: Promotion and Behavior Change (US$1.41 million; Bank financing US$1.38 million)
The project would finance the technical assistance of legal experts, advocacy NGOs and PLWAs to
identify areas of systematic discrimination and the perceived denial of rights against PLWAs to promote
fair treatment and introduce legislation prohibiting discrimination and human rights denial. Other
advocacy activities would include learning to live with WV/AIDS persons, calling upon private and
public celebrities to support HIV/AIDS prevention campaigns, and human rights protection. Special
population groups would be "targeted" according to risk of infection, for promoting behavior change



2
ISDS
leading to healthy and safe sex practices. Ministries and other agencies would carry out identification of
these vulnerable groups and fornulate and implement action plans. Activities on HIV/AIDS behavioral
changes and promotion of safe sex practices by different line Ministries would be part of a multisectoral,
annual work program.
Component 2: Prevention and Control (US$2.0 million; Bank financing US$1.79 million)
This component would support clinical preventive interventions for reducing and controlling HIV-AIDS:
clinical management of STIs, prevention of MTCT, tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis and treatment, and Blood
Bank and laboratories control. These activities would be complemented with specific IEC activities
developed under the first component.
The project would support the creation of the National Infectious Disease Unit (NIDU) within the MOH
with the mission of reducing the burden of serious infectious diseases and arrest the progress of selected
diseases, which threaten public health. Among the preventive activities related with HIV/AIDS, NIDU
would undertake: (i) screening for HTV; (ii) condom distribution; (iii) voluntary counseling and testing;
(iv) strengthening of the STI program; (v) strengthening the national tuberculosis control program
(NTCP); and (vi) developing the HIV MTCT prevention program.
Component 3: Access to Treatment and Care (US$ 0.91 million; Bank financing US$ 0.80 million)
The project would support upgrading current services available for providing care for persons living with
AIDS, and for treatment, including the introduction of triple ART. Priority actions that would be met
before initiating project ART financing would include: (i) strengthening laboratory capacity to diagnose
HIV and opportunistic infections; (ii) development/adaptation of clinical protocols, and training of health
personnel; (iii) pharmacy strengthening in order to provide a supportive environment for the utilization of
ART; (iv) strengthening Infrastructure for Community Health Services, including upgrading polyclinics
for counseling and testing; arid (v) expanding the infrastructure and capacity for 01 treatment and
management of ART.
The project would finance development of manuals, training of health staff on counseling of patient's
families, understanding the meaning of CD4 count and viral load results, basic clinical equipment for
patient follow up at home, and home patient care. Specific family education materials for home care
would also be financed. The care package will be available to people who are registered with the
program and should send a strong message that it is advantageous to the PLWA to be reported to the
program and to keep links with it.
Component 4: Institutional D)evelopment, Management and Surveillance (US$2.38 million; Bank
financing US$1.43 million)
The project would support the establishment and operation of the National HIV/AIDS Action Council
(NAAC) whose mandate would be to provide policy guidance and leadership to the multisectoral
program. The project would provide resources for the installation of a Surveillance System. This would
include system design, adaptation of available software, and procurement of hardware, installation,
provision of information technology (IT) support, and the training for practitioners, laboratory staff and
MOH researchers required to use the system. Project resources would finance the requisite consultant
services, physical infrastructure, goods and training services required to establish the system, and
contribute to operating costs.
The project would also finanice periodic surveys of knowledge, attitudes and behavior, (second
generation of surveillance) to support the targeting of messages for the population as a whole,



3
ISDS
and to specific vulnerable groups.   Specific research issues on HIV/AIDS epidemiology,
behavioral changes, clinical and community management of HIV/AIDS and cost-effectiveness of
interventions would be identified, and research proposals would be assessed for financing.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is expected to cover the entire island of Grenada by slowing the rate of new HIV infections
it would be reducing the number of new AIDS cases that would appear in the future, ancl the consequent
human and social costs, human suffering, and financial burdens to families. Second, the project would
extend the lives of PLWHAs, most of whom are between 25 and 49 years of age, extending their
productive contributions to society.
B. Check Environmental Classiflcation: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Trigered
__   P'olicy                 --    ~   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP,'BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes     No     TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                           Yes * No      TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/13P 4.04)                               ;Yes * No     QTBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  C Yes * No       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    .Yes * No     'TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                           Yes * No    ITBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes * No     ITBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                     Yes * No    .TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*               Yes * No      TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)            Yes * No       TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claillms
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Is ues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If infornmation is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
l.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are none major environmental issues. Other environmental issues identified are rnedical waste management
associated with increased ART in public health facilities.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The solid waste produced in health facilities is potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious, or toxic,
posing health risks to staff who handle waste in health facilities and to urban waste collection
operators and scavengers in landfills.
II.D. l c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.



4
ISDS
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
An assessment of the Medical VWaste Management in Grenada is included in the Project Appraisal
Document (Annex 2-B).
It will be submitted to the Infoslhop as Annex to the Project Information Document.
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The medical waste management assessment has provided a detailed, facility-by-facility statement of
improvements that could be undertaken in the short term with minimal expense. It also provides
recommendations which would alter the structure of biomedical waste management environment in
Grenada health care system. To address these recommendations, within the project, the Ministry of
Health would mitigate the environmental risk of poor biomedical waste management by forming a
Biomedical Waste Management. Team within the Ministry of Health with a designated head to:
a)     Coordinate and programi the application of the facility-by-facility recommendations of the
Assessment. Funding for small equipment as necessary would be drawn from the project.
b)     Review and rationalize, with the assistance of consultants, the legal framework, organization
and management structure of the system according to the Assessment's recommendations and prepare
updated regulations;
c)     Prepare documentation describing the functioning and provided technical specifications of
the equipment needed to implernent a unified waste segregation, classification, minimization and
disposal system which could include the acquisition of new incinerator facilities. The costs of the
equipment and facilities could be financed through the project; and
d)     Program and deliver updated training and information for health care professionals, and all
hospital workers coming into contact with biomedical waste.
IL.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
NGOs, PLWAs, and community grass roots groups have contributed through specific national
consultations; contracts with NGOs for project implementation, including IEC interventions,
preventive activities, home care, and advocacy would foster participation and ownership. The
proposed structure of the NAAC, which will be include representatives of a wide cross section of
stakeholders will institutionalize this form of participation.
She constitution of the Naticinal AIDS Action  Council would gather the most representative
stakeholders in the management of HIV/AIDS in the country. A key stakeholder would be the
Ministry of Finance which would take the responsibility for financial and administrative project
matters through its Projects and Development Cooperation Unit.
E. Safeguards Classification. C(ategory is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address



5
ISDS
safeguard issues.



6
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               4/29/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             5/22/2002     5/22/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              5/14/2002     5/30/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Patricio V. Marquez                         05/13/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan David Quintero                      05/22/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Ana Maria Arriagada                         05/23/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH        P FEEOBACK     j SrE MAPi   'SHOWCASE      S



