ER Group               E & ER Group  Phone 510-799-2551
628 Second Street  Fax 510-799-2572
Rodeo, CA 94572 USA
Audit of Biomedical Waste
Management Practices
E634
Grenada                                      April 29, 2002
FIRSTDRAFT-Do not quote
Prepared for:
Natural Resources Management Unit (NRMU)
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)
April 29, 2002
FILE COPY






Table of Contents
Executive Summary ..............................i
Introduction .............................. iv
Objectives ...............................1
Approach ...............................1
Basic Information ...............................2
Inventory of Major Health-Care Facilities ...............................2
Assessment of Laws and Regulations .............................      :    .    5
Assessment of Biomedical Waste Management Practices ................6
General Hospital, St. George's ...............................................6
Princess Alice Hospital, St. AndreWs .............................................. 12
St. Augustine's Medical Services, St. George's ................................ 16
Gouyave Health Centre, St. John's ..............................................   18
St. David's Health Centre, St. David's .............................................. 24
Grand Roy Medical Station, St. John's ............................................. 27
Princess Royale Hospital, Carriacou .............................................. 29
Assessment of Biomedical Waste Treatment ................................... 30
Assessment of Waste Disposal ..............................................    32
Recommendations ..............................................                33
Short-Term Recommendations ..............................................   33
Long-Term Recommendations ..............................................    40
National Laws and Regulations ..............................................  40
Institutional Policy, Administration, and Organization ................. 41
Occupational Safety and Health .............................................. 42
Waste Segregation and Classification ........................................ 43
Waste Minimization ..............................................     46
Labeling, Colour Coding, and Signage ....................................... 46
Waste Collection ..............................................       47
Handling and Transport Within the Facility ................................. 48
Transport Outside the Facility ..............................................   48
Waste Treatment ..............................................        48
Final Disposal ..............................................         49
Summary of Biomedical Waste Management Procedures ......... 49
Contingency Planning ..............................................   50
Employee Training and Public Education ................................... 51






Appendix
Sources of Information ...................         Al
Sample Institutional Policy ................... A2
Waste Minimization .................... A3
Sample Poster .................... A4



Executive Summary
This report presents the results of an audit of biomedical waste
management practices in Grenada. The audit began with meetings with
officials of the Ministry of Health and the Environment, followed by site
visits to the main public and private hospitals, representative health
centres, a medical station, Solid Waste Management Authority, two
landfills, a pharmacy, and other related facilities between February 11 to
13, 2002. In the case of one hospital at another island, a phone interview
was conducted. The assessment is based on information obtained during
meetings  and  interviews, observations from  site  visits, photo-
documentation, review of relevant documents, and follow-up data received
after the visit.
Grenada is divided into seven health districts, six of which have a health
centre. The centres are supplemented by 31 medical stations. There are
three public hospitals-General Hospital (which is the main hospital),
Princess Alice Hospital, and Princess Royale Hospital-two private
hospitals, and eight private medical centres or clinics. An inventory of
health-care facilities is provided, including a medical school, veterinary
hospital, and public and private nursing homes.
The mainland of Grenada and Carriacou are divided into five solid waste
collection zones. Domestic waste is deposited in engineered landfills.
Waste pickers are not allowed to scavenge materials in the landfill. At the
time of the visit, the Perseverance Landfill in the mainland was not in use
due to a collapse in the cell structure. Solid waste was instead being
brought to the old dumpsite until the landfill structure could be repaired.
The most relevant law is the Waste Management Act of 2001 which has
come into force. The Act requires the development of a national waste
management strategy to deal with all types of waste. Clinical wastes from
health-care facilities are classified by the Act as hazardous waste. Except
for these general requirements, there are no regulations dealing
specifically with biomedical waste. Recommendations are made on
various elements that could be addressed in future regulations.
Assessments of biomedical waste management practices are presented
for seven representative facilities: General Hospital, Princess Alice
Hospital, St. Augustine's (a private hospital), Gouyave Health Centre, St.
David's Health Centre, Grand Roy Medical Station, and Princess Royale
Hospital. Each facility is evaluated in terms of its written policies and
procedures on biomedical waste management; colour coding and signage;



waste segregation, collection, and transport; waste treatment; waste
disposal; employee training; and waste management organization.
Except for General Hospital, none of the facilities has policies or
procedures for biomedical waste management. Written in 1993, the
policies at General Hospital deal with some aspects of waste
management, including sharps disposal. The policies regarding waste
management are not comprehensive. In all the facilities visited, there is
little or no formal training on biomedical waste management. Most of the
information is disseminated informally by word of mouth.
There is no colour coding in any facility except for General Hospital where
colour coding is used albeit inconsistently. All other facilities use black
bags to collect biomedical waste and regular garbage.
In all facilities, sharps are segregated at the point of use and health-care
providers are aware of the need to separate sharps. In general, rigid,
puncture-resistant plastic containers of varying sizes are readily available
and in use. Several facilities reported reusing sharps containers. The
process of manually emptying out sharps containers poses a risk of
needle-stick injuries to the workers. Worker protection should be provided.
A few smaller facilities also use cardboard boxes for sharps collection.
The boxes do not appear to be puncture-resistant.
Blood and body fluids are generally poured out into sinks that drained into
the sanitary sewer. At the main hospital, the duct from the sluice room
drains into an open channel; the staff could not confirm whether this
channel connected to the hospital's sanitary sewer. Workers need to be
provided protection from splashes of blood and body fluids.
Cultures and stocks are autoclaved on site at the main hospital.
Pathological waste is interred on site, composted (e.g., placenta at St.
Augustine's), or burned. There is little or no chemotherapeutic waste and
low-level radioactive waste generated at this time.  Spent chemical
solvents used in the laboratory are generally poured down the drain.
These chemical wastes should be treated as hazardous waste. Expired
pharmaceuticals are generally dissolved, diluted, and flushed down drains
(for small amounts of liquids and tablets including antibiotics), buried on
site or at the landfill (for larger amounts), or in some cases, returned to the
manufacturers.
Burning is the main form of waste treatment used in Grenada. The
buming methods include: campfire-style open buming, open-pit buming,
burning in a cement firebox, buming in drums, old cement block open-bum
incinerators, a small in-house incinerator, buming in the local crematorium,
and a new controlled medical waste incinerator (which was not in
operation because of problems). Regular garbage, including plastics and
cans, are bumed with the biomedical waste. All of the open-bum methods
ii



pose a fire hazard due to surrounding vegetation and other combustible
materials around the bum area. Furthermore, they generally achieve
insufficient levels of disinfection; release air pollutants such as toxic
dioxins, furans, acid gases, particulates, and heavy metals; generate ash
that may be hazardous; and result in unbumed or partially bumed residues
that could include sharps.
It is recommended that the use of the incinerators be minimized or at least
the following materials not be burned: halogenated plastics, waste
containing heavy metals, pressurized containers, and organic solvents.
Until appropriate biomedical waste treatment technologies are installed,
the biomedical waste could be encapsulated and buried on site, or
transported for safe burial at the landfills under a special arrangement with
the Solid Waste Management Authority.  Recommendations for new
biomedical waste treatment technologies will be presented in another
report.
Specific short-term recommendations are provided for each facility visited.
General long-term recommendations are also presented dealing with the
following: laws and regulations; institutional policy, administration, and
organization; occupational safety and health; waste segregation and
classification; waste minimization; labeling, colour coding, and signage;
waste collection; handling and transport within the facility; transport outside
the facility; waste treatment; final disposal; contingency planning;
employee training; and public-education. Feedback from stakeholders on
the* long-term recommendations will serve as the basis for the
development of a national biomedical waste management plan.
ii



INTRODUCTION
This project is a component of a larger World Bank-funded programme to
address the problem of solid and ship-generated wastes with the goal of
protecting the environment and enforcing the MARPOL 73/78
Convention. The programme involves six members of the Organization of
Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) and is coordinated by the Natural
Resources Management Unit of OECS.
This particular component of the project deals with the management of
health-care waste in Grenada and has four specific tasks: (1) an audit of
medical waste management practices, (2) review of existing medical
waste treatment technologies, (3) development of a national biomedical
waste management plan, and (4) a training programme/implementation
and monitoring.
This report corresponds to the first of the aforementioned four tasks. It
was prepared by Dr. Jorge Emmanuel of the E & ER Group based in
Rodeo, Califomia, USA. The author is grateful to Mr. Patrick Moore, Chief
Environmental Health Officer, for his valuable assistance in arranging the
site visits and interviews. He also thanks Mr. Ed Krisiunas for his help in
the site visits. The author acknowledges the support of Permanent
Secretary for Health, Ms. Eunice Sandy-David and all the personnel who
provided information related to medical waste management in Grenada.
Comments on this report from the stakeholders should be sent to the
address shown below.
Jorge Emmanuel, PhD, CHMM, PE, REP, DES
The E& ER Group
628 Second Street
Rodeo, CA 94572
USA
Ph. 510-799-2551
Fax 510-799-2572
E-mail: iemmanuekAmindsDrina.com
iv



AUDIT OF BIOMEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES
The objectives of this report are to review the current status of biomedical waste
management in Grenada, and to present recommendations. The consultant's
recommendations are based on:
a) The need to safeguard public health, enhance occupational safety of health-
care workers, and protect the environment without compromising patient care
b) The need to conform to generally accepted international practices and
standards related to the collection, transport, and disposal of potentially
infectious waste
c) The desirability of regional harmonization, where appropriate, of practices and
standards related to biomedical waste management.
Information for this report was obtained from meetings with stakeholders and
visits to various representative facilities conducted between February 11 to 13,
2002. Specific sources included:
a) Data gathered during meetings with govemment officials, health-care facility
staff, solid waste management personnel, and other stakeholders (Note: due
to difficulties in transportation, detailed information was also obtained through
a phone interview in the case of one hospital)
b) Observations and photo-documentation of existing practices and technologies
during site visits to two public hospitals, one private hospital, two health
centres, a medical station, major pharmacy, crematorium, landfill, and the old
dumpsite.
c) Review of relevant documents and publicly available reference materials
d) Responses to follow-up requests for additional information
e) Preliminary information provided by the Natural Resource Management Unit,
Organization of Eastem Caribbean States.
Appendix Al gives a list of the facilities visited, personnel who provided
information, and documents and photos obtained.
1



F'IRSTD R:). I Fi Do ni/f               j mI', (V Bioei,:( '
Grenada is comprised of three islands: the mainland of Grenada, Carriacou, and
Petite Martinique. It has a total land area of 344 sq km (133 sq mi) and a
population of about 101,000 people (about 90,000 in the mainland, 10,000 in
Carriacou, and 1,000 in Petite Martinique). The mainland is divided into six
parishes: St. Patrick's, St. Andrew's, St. David's, St. George's, St. John's, and St.
Mark's.
The Ministry of Health and the Environment, located at the Ministerial Complex
(Botanical Gardens) in St. George's, is responsible, among others, for medical
waste management and disposal. It is headed by the Minister of Health and the
Environment Dr. Clarice Modeste-Curwen. The Permanent Secretary Ms. Eunice
Sandy-David is the Ministry's administrative head. The Chief Medical Officer Dr.
Bernard Gittens is the principal technical officer and supervisor of all district
medical officers.
In the private sector, there is a Grenada Medical Association headed by Dr.
Emma Henry-Thompson.     There are an estimated 21 doctors who work
exclusively in private individual or group practice, plus another 59 medical
practitioners employed in the public sector most of whom are also in private
practice. The total number of registered nurses is about 242.
For the purpose of solid waste collection, Grenada is divided into four collection
zones in the mainland plus one zone in Carriacou. Municipal solid waste is
disposed of in the Perseverance Landfill off the Western Main Road around the
area of Halifax Harbor. Perseverance is a 7.2-hectare engineered landfill built on
a gradient. It has a clay liner and is comprised of six cells, of which one (Cell 1) is
developed. It has an area for weighing and a leachate drainage system including
a leachate pond.  Leachate and groundwater tests are conducted by the
Caribbean Environmental Health Institute. Some separation of tires and batteries
is done. The seven-day-per-week operation includes compacting and daily
cover. Waste pickers are not allowed in the landfill to scavenge materials.
Capacity is estimated at about 17.5 years.
Perseverance Landfill had been in operation for less than a year. Unfortunately,
at the time of the site visit, a collapse of the structure between Cell 1 and Cell 2
due to heavy rains caused a temporary halt in the use of the landfill. Waste was
being sent to an area in the old dumpsite a short distance away. Solid Waste
Management Authority personnel expected the Perseverance Landfill to return to
operation in three or four months. Solid waste in Carriacou is disposed of at the
Dumfries Landfill, a 2.4-hectare engineered landfill.
0 0 .0           -m_-
Grenada is divided into seven health districts, of which six have a health centre as
the primary care facility supplemented by 31 district medical stations. Generally,
each health district has a district medical officer, family nurse practitioner, public
2



health nurse, district nurses, community health aides, dentist and dental auxiliary,
pharmacist, environmental health officer, and mental health worker. The public
(govemment-run) health-care facilities under the Ministry of Health include:
* three hospitals
* six health centres
* 31 medical stations
* a major dental clinic
* a psychiatric hospital
* a geriatric facility
* 16 pharmacy units at the hospital and community levels
* a rehabilitation centre
In addition, there are the following private health-care facilities (based on 2001
phone directory listings):
* two private hospitals
* one university hospital
* two veterinary hospital/teaching hospital
*   eight other private facilities (medical centres, clinics, matemity unit)
* one public and about 10 private nursing homes
* five wholesale pharmacies
* about 16 retail pharmacies
* about 9 private dental clinics
By comparison, a 1998 Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) report
estimated 18 private pharmacies and about 15 dentists with private practice. A
2001 PAHO report estimated five acute hospitals, 13 private nursing homes, two
maternity units, and several medical offices in the private sector.
Table I below lists the hospitals, health centres, and medical stations in Grenada
along with the number of beds or patients served by the district medical officer in
2001, where data were available.
Table I. Inventory of Health-Care Facilities
CATEGORY              FACILITY                                   NOTES
I LOCATION
Public Hospitals
St. George's       General Hospital                        240-bed hospital
St. Andrew's       Princess Alice Hospital                  60-bed hospital
Cariacou           Princess Royale Hospital                 32-bed hospital
Private Hospitals
St. George's       St. Augustine's Medical Services         18-bed hospital
St. George's       Marryshows Hospital and Health Clinic
Teaching Hospital
St. George's        St. George's University Med. School (private)
Psychiatric Hospital
St George's        Mt. Gay Psychiatric Hospital             8G-bed hospital
Veterinary Hospitals
St. George's       GSPCA Hospital
St. George's       SGU Veterinary Teaching Hospital
Gov. Health Centres
St. Patrick's      Sauteurs Health Centre                  3,648 patients/yr
St. Andrevws       Grand Bras Health Centre                2,712 patients/yr
St. David's        St. David's Health Centre               2,134 patients/yr
3



St. George's        St. George's Health Centre              5,001 patientshyr
St. John's          Gouyave Health Centre                   3,773 patients/yr
Caniacou            Hillsborough Health Centre               1,449 patients/yr
Gov. Medical Stations                   _
St. Patridck's      River Sallee                             827 patients/yr
St. Patrick's       Mt. Rich                                 1,324 patientstvr
St. Patrick's      Tivoli                                    781 patents/yr
St. Patrick's       Union                                    1,117 patients/yr
St. Patrick's       Hermitage                                629 pabents/yr
St. Andrew's        Parradete                                545 patients/yr
St. Andrewvs        Birch Grove                              982 pabients/yr
St. Andrew's        Mt. Carmel                               1,031 patients/yr
St. Andrew's        Paradise                                 520 patients/yr
St. David's        Vincennes                                 872 patents/yr
St. David's        Crochu                                    947 pabentshyr
St. David's        Westerhall                                481 patients/yr
St. David's         Perdemontemps                            1,755 patients/yr
St. George's        Grand Anse                               748 patients/yr
St. George's        Calliste
St. George's        Snug Comer                               1,703 patients/yr
St. George's        Happy Hill                               1,534 patients/yr
St. George's        Good Hope                                1,651 patients/yr
St. George's       Wobum                                     1,088 patients/yr
St. George's        New Hampshire                            1,200 patients/yr
St. George's        La Borie                                 1,532 patients/yr
St. George's        Mome Jaloux                              1,381 patients/yr
St. George's        Mt. Moritz                               593 patients/yr
St. George's        Airport (not a full dinic)
St. John's          Grand Roy                                897 patients/yr
St. John's          Florida                                  225 patentstyr
St. Mark's          Victoria                                 1,935 patients/yr
Carriacou           Mount Pleasant                           741 patients/yr
Caniacou           Windward                                  1,117 patients/yr
Caniacou            Belle Vue South                          563 pabientshyr
Petite Martinique   Petite Martinique                        1,045 patients/yr
Private Facilities
St. George's        Old Trafford Medical Centre
St. George's        Black Rock Medical Centre
St. George's        Brooks-Smith-Lowe Institute
St. Andrew's        Good Shepherd Clinic
St. George's        Halifax Clinic
St. George's        Salus Clinic
St. George's        Traditional & Altemate Medical Clinic
St. George's        Blakeford Matemity Unit
Nursing Homes
St. George's        Dorothy Hopkins Centre for the Disabled /  120-bed govemment
Richmond Home                                facility
St. Andrew's        Cadrona Home
St. George's        Chichester's Nursing Home
St. George's        Grand Anse Gardens Home
St. Patridck's      Hilario Fr. Cheshire Home
St. John's          Hiliview Home
St. George's       Johnson's Home
St. George's        Robertson's Convalescent Home
St. George's        St. Cecilia Nursing Home
St. Andrew's        St. Martin's Home
Caniacou           Alexis Nursing Home
4



F1li?T L)R.1 :l.) Lk  ,l qin.'w         . Iudiz 'f BirIwuL   J','.1f FT:' D4of lnoi'l ,' It) aeiih
The Ministry of Health and the Environment operates under several key
legislation. Some of these statutes are: Hospital Act of 1953; Medical Officers
Act of 1903; Medical Practitioners, Dentists and Veterinary Surgeons Registration
Act of 1982; Midwives Act of 1954; Nurses Registration Act of 1980; Pharmacy
Act of 1988; Public Health Act of 1925; Public Health (Immunization) Act of 1980;
General Hospital Fee Rules (1988); Medical Products Act; Hospital Authority Act;
Solid Waste Act of 1995; and Waste Management Act of 2001. Except for the
last two, these laws regulate health-care providers in the public and private
sectors.
The Solid Waste Act of 1995 and the Grenada Solid Waste Management
Authority Act of 1995 established an autonomous statutory body, the Solid Waste
Management Authority, to manage a system of collection and disposal of solid
waste (garbage). Four private contractors carry out the hauling of solid waste.
Although the removal and disposal functions have been privatized, the Ministry of
Health and the Environment maintains its regulatory role of monitoring and
oversight.
The Waste Management Act of 2001 (Act No. 16 of 2001), which has come into
force, provides for the management of waste according to best practices. The
Act requires the development of a national waste inventory and a national waste
management strategy. Under the strategy, an implementation programme must
be created which includes establishment of standards, requirements, and
procedures for management of all types of waste. The law specifically requires
that the strategy "identify methods by which ... biomedical waste ... and other
specified classes of waste are to be managed." [Part II, Section 5 (3)(b)]
The Waste Management Act establishes penalties for storage and disposal of
waste in a manner likely to cause pollution of the environment or harm to human
health. The minister is given the responsibility for making regulations.
Among the components of wastes classified as Hazardous Waste in Schedule 1,
Part A of the statute, are:
*  Y1    Clinical wastes from medical care in hospitals, medical centres
and clinics
*  Y2    Wastes from the production and preparation of pharmaceutical
products
*  Y3    Waste pharmaceuticals, drugs and medicines
Under Schedule 1, Part B of the statute, Hazardous Waste characteristics
include:
* H6.2 Infectious substances: substances or wastes containing viable
micro organisms or their toxins which are known or suspected to
cause diseases in animals or humans
5



IRST 1)?. 1 fT: Do roz &t/uo           .1 i1dii *:/fiJoinedA;i Jfflt. te MA'Ia.longenic,  frl ,., (i
Under the statutory definitions, biomedical waste is defined as including "any
waste containing human or animal fluids, flesh, bones, or other body parts except
hair." [Note: For the purpose of this report, the tern "biomedical waste" will have
a broader meaning and will be used to refer to any waste from a health-care
facility that poses a hazard including waste that is capable of producing infectious
disease.]
Except for the above-mentioned statutory definitions, there are no classifications
provided for the various components of health-care wastes. As reported by
environmental health officers, there are no regulations dealing specifically with the
management of wastes from health-care facilities. This issue will be addressed
further in the recommendations and the draft national biomedical waste
management plan.
A  -  -  .       ~~~~- L        Ji F. r 1 T - UNA--0
Below are assessments of biomedical waste management practices for each of
the following six representative health-care facilities inspected during one or more
site visits:
1.   General Hospital, Fort George's Pointe, St. George's
2.   Princess Alice Hospital, Mirabeau, St. Andrew's
3.   St. Augustine Medical Services (private hospital), Grand Anse, St. George's
4.   Gouyave Health Centre, Gouyave, St. John's
5.   St. David's Health Centre, Petit Esperance, St. David's
6.   Grand Roy Medical Station, Gouyave, St. John's
A brief assessment is also made of Princess Royale Hospital in Belair, Carriacou,
based solely on an in-depth telephone interview with the hospital administrator.
Problems with inter-island transportation at the time of the visit made it difficult to
travel to Carriacou by sea or air.
General Hospital, St. George's
General Hospital on Fort George's Pointe is the main acute care hospital in
Grenada. It has 240 beds with a bed occupancy rate of about 60%. The hospital
is staffed by about 30 physicians, 144 nurses, 84 nursing auxiliaries, 47
administrative personnel, and 146 other workers (PAHO, 1998). The hospital
provides a wide range of services including general surgery, laboratory, and
emergency services. It houses a female medical ward, two female surgical
wards, a male medical ward, a male surgical ward, a pediatric/infant ward,
maternity ward, a 9-bed ophthalmology ward, intensive care unit, private wards,
physiotherapy department, and a 20-bed psychiatric unit which was recently
moved.
A new four-story facility being constructed within the current hospital grounds will
increase the number of beds to 270. (Note: this figure apparently includes about
20 rest beds for auxiliary personnel). The new facility was about 75% complete at
the time of the visit.
6



FIRST .D -1) 1 F7. 11-i7   quote A'U0f  1 ud,it (X' Biome)d/ical   Pra.a a'i fl(; m f'.,
The hospital generates sharps waste, tissues and anatomical parts from two
surgical theatres, placenta waste from matemity, blood and body fluids, laboratory
waste, and other common wastes such as soiled dressings, bandages, gauze,
swabs, etc. No chemotherapeutic waste is produced. As with all health-care
facilities, general garbage is also produced.
General Hospital was visited on two separate occasions.  Departmental
supervisor Nurse Lyneve Bailey acted as guide durng the first site visit; Deputy
Director Franklin Gittens hosted the second visit.
1.    Policies and Procedures
The hospital has written policies in the form of an in-house infection control
manual developed in November 25, 1993. Examples of key policies pertaining to
waste were:
*  Policy No. 003  Soiled linen
*  Policy No. 005  Universal precautions
*  Policy No. 006  Disposal of sharps
*  Policy No. 009  Personnel protection
On sharps management (Policy No. 006), the policy requires puncture-resistant
containers, no recapping of needles, no bending or breaking of needles, no
disposal of needles with regular garbage, and the prompt disposal of all used
sharps.
With sharps posing the major hazard among health-care waste components, the
existence of a sharps disposal policy at General Hospital is important. However,
no similar policies were found for dealing with other waste components such as
cultures and stocks, blood and body fluids, and pathological waste. Furthermore,
there were no general policies on waste minimization, segregation, collection,
handling, transport, treatment, and disposal.
2.    Colour Coding and Signage
Colour coding is inconsistently used at the hospital. In some places, as shown in
Figure 1, a container with a red bag is placed beside a container with a black bag
to segregate potentially infectious waste from regular garbage. (In this case,
however, packaging that is probably not infectious was thrown in the red bag. A
cursory examination of the contents of some bags indicated poor segregation
practices even when red and black bags were available.)



FIRST 1?A FL 1.). rDR,t qaigot  I        uT Do       11 .uotcs Avdif (.4ioedicgal  pra!dPi,u
Figure 1. Red and Black Bags Used at General Hospital
In general, black bags were used for garbage. Black bags were also used to
collect soiled linen (Figure 2). In at least one area, however, red bags are used
for regular garbage, as shown in Figure 3.
7 C-
L
Figure 2. Black Bags Used for Soiled Linen
--
Figure 3. Red Bags Used for Regular Garbage
The hospital laboratory seems to have an adequate supply of red bags as well as
red autoclavable bags. Red bags were purportedly donated by a hospital in
Gainesville, Florida. Hospital personnel noted that donated red bags were often
of poor quality.
8



F:1167I L)R. 1D1:i L , r (d Do not     .1 Udi  iJlnerficia!I i' '  PaiP I ', cJ v
Clearly, despite the availability of red bags, a colour coding system is not used in
some parts of the hospital or is used inconsistently in others. Colour coding and
signage are important aspects of waste segregation for effective waste
management, protection of public health, and occupational safety. They are the
generally accepted standards for handling health-care waste. No signage related
to health-care waste management was found in the facility. The lack of colour
coding and signage is an issue that needs to be addressed in the future.
3.    Waste Segregation, Collection, and Transport
Sharps are collected in red-coloured, puncture-resistant, plastic containers. They
range in size from 2 litres to large 40 litre plastic containers. Figure 4 shows two
sizes of sharps containers near a bin for regular garbage.
'.                   >~~~~7'
Figure 4. Sharps Containers in General Hospital
(left-below sink; right-on shelf)
The handling, collection, and disposal of contaminated sharps waste pose one of
the greatest occupational hazards facing health care workers worldwide because
of the frequency of needle-stick injuries and the potential transmission of
bloodbome pathogens. For this reason, the generally accepted performance
criteria for sharps containers include: puncture resistance, rigidity, durability, leak
resistance on the sides and bottom, ability to be closed, and functionality under all
normal conditions during their use.  The sharps containers that were seen in
General Hospital meet the standard criteria.
When full, the sharps containers are picked up by orderlies and emptied into a
box or placed in a large bag for incineration. Several large boxes full of sharps
were found in the alley outside the laboratory awaiting transport for disposal.
Cultures and stocks are autoclaved on-site in the laboratory prior to disposal.
This procedure is ideal for the management of cultures and stocks.
Blood and body fluids are poured out in the sluice room. Blood samples and
unused units of blood from the blood bank are autoclaved. Because of the
shortage of laboratory supplies, collection tubes and bottles are emptied out in the
sluice room, soaked ovemight in a disinfectant solution (sodium hypochlorite) as
shown in Figure 5, then washed, dried in a hot air oven, and reused.
9



M: M -- IID? 7 D 1. rT,j q02'ofe         I  io Biio; i,flrn M(lL J' I'l' la j 'iifl'Pt'fli(.'Il P
.          ~~~~~~~~~~.
Figure 5. Containers Soaked in Disinfectant Prior to Reuse
A dressing trolley is usually wheeled into the patient wards. Each ward has two
containers: a pail (Figure 6) for soiled dressings and bandages, and a step-on bin
for general garbage. Black bags are used to line the bins.
Figure 6. Pail for Soiled Dressings Used in the Wards
In the operating theatres, kick buckets with different bags are used. Some
buckets are used for gauze and swabs, others for linen. Orderlies bring out the
waste, which is divided into two waste streams-biomedical waste and regular
garbage. In the set-up room, dry wrappers are collected and disposed as regular
trash.
As mentioned, regular garbage is collected in containers lined with black plastic
bags. Covered containers were generally found in the wards. In one area,
however, an uncovered garbage bin containing food waste was found in an open
corridor with three cats nearby (Figure 7). This situation could lead to an
unsanitary condition.
10



FI-RSTDR?'ifT Do ri :> :or.                bim^*wf l i iqi.asO' A'Iia4e1ufli Io,a :r.ets
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
-.Figure 7. Uncovered Garbage Container
4.    Waste Treatment
Until recently, clinical wastes including soiled dressings, placenta, tissues and
other pathological waste, were burned in an old incinerator on the hospital
grounds.  Incinerator ash was then collected and sent to the solid waste
dumpsite. Hospital personnel noted that sharps waste did not burn well, perhaps
indicative of an old incinerator design and/or a poorly maintained incinerator
incapable of achieving high temperatures.  Environmental health officers
mentioned that the incinerator was often out of service.
However, with the new construction, the old incinerator had been dismantled to
make way for a new incinerator being planned near the new building and
adjacent to the energy block where the chillers and electricals are housed (Figure
8). In the interim, pathological waste including large tissues are being transported
to the LaQua Brothers crematorium for buming.
'' ', ~~~~~~~~~~..'........     . .
i0vrdN            !S~* -U
Figure 8. Planned Location for New Treatment Technology
At present, the hospital does not have a management system for the disposal of
hazardous waste.   Solvents and other hazardous wastes are apparently
discharged into the sewer system or disposed of with regular solid waste.
5.    Waste Disposal
As noted above, blood collection tubes are disinfected in hypochlorite solution,
dried in a hot air oven, and reused. The spent disinfectant is poured into a sink



FIR?STiD)' AfT  LD r not IIJoW         .1 lAi o mehi lfl:(11 JJ'fC  Nii kl  d lAl  ' j''
that drains directly to an outside drain running parallel to the building and
emptying out into an open drain (Figure 9). The outside storm drain is along a
vehicle parking area in the courtyard of the hospital grounds. Hospital and
ministry personnel were not able to confirm whether the effluent goes through the
hospital's sanitary sewer or is simply discharged without treatment. Chemical
waste such as formaldehyde is discarded down the drain.
\    ; i     .r
Figures 9. Duct From Sluice Room (left) and Open Drain (right)
In general, the bumt sharps, ash, and other waste residues from the incinerator
are brought to the landfill or dumpsite. Landfill workers complained that syringes
are often found in the waste.
6.    Employee Training
According to the former infection control coordinator, training should be
conducted every quarter. Since the infection control committee is not as active as
in the past, training programmes may not be fully implemented. Discussions with
staff members indicated that some personnel, such as the laboratory staff, had a
good understanding of the issues associated with biomedical waste handling and
disposal.
7.    Waste Management Organization
The hospital has an infection control committee. At the time of the site visit, the
infection control coordinator was on sick leave. The committee had apparently
been active in the past but key members have since left.
Princess Alice Hospital. St. Andrew's
Princess Alice Hospital (PAH) is located in Mirabeau northeast of St. George's on
the eastem side of Grenada a short distance from Grenville. Ms. Stephanie
Sandy, charge nurse the day of the site visit, accompanied the consultant. There
are approximately 60 beds evenly divided between the male and female wards. A
pediatric ward is also present with 6-8 beds. The operating theatre, laboratory,
and radiology units are not operational at this time. PAH is primarily a triage
facility with more extensive procedures and surgeries being performed at General
Hospital in St. George's.
12



F:IRST DR[)if7 T , Do no! tI'tdohf     .  1it Piirof hc!'lt'(IfC' i ,t'k' l/Ufli4LiCFY  'r;ijU,2y
1.    Policies and Procedures
No specific policy exists at Princess Alice Hospital for the management of
biomedical waste.
2.    Colour Coding and Signage
No red bags were observed being used in the hospital, only black bags. With
respect to signage, a poster was found on breaking the chain of infection (Figure
10).
Figure 1;0. Poster on the Chain of Infection
3.    Waste Segregation, Collection, and Transport
PAH utilizes a slightly different method of biomedical waste management as
compared to the experience with other health-care facilities. Sharps bins include
plastic containers, cardboard boxes, or plastic bags. They are available for use
and located throughout the facility (Figure 1 1). However, only black bags were in
use at the hospital. These black bags (Figure 12) are removed on a regular basis
by groundskeepers and are carried to the rear of PAH for disposal via
incineration. The sharps containers are then returned to service. With the
exception of placentas, all other waste is collected in black bags.
-  S i  L    .X
Figure 1F1. Sharps Bins in Male Ward (left) and A and E (nght)
13



I-lRiS7I)R  1fT-. LLh ni& t              ,i7! iijh/, of iOILtv(AICnIg :ume
-al
Ja J
Figure 12. Black Bags
4.    Waste Treatment
In the past, blacks bags and sharps containers were carried to the rear of PAH
where a relatively new incinerator (Evans Tabo Universal Minimaster, Leeds,
UK), constructed in 2000, was used to burn the waste (Figure 13).  The
incinerator used oil as auxiliary fuel. Placentas would also be incinerated.
.17
Figure 13. New Incinerator (Not in Operation)
Before the new incinerator was installed, the hospital used a simple cement
firebox with a protective roof, as shown in Figure 14. The old firebox incinerator is
in disrepair and surrounded by weeds.
A
Figure 14. Old Cement Firebox Incinerator
14



FI ?S7TI'R.1 FT: D) roi,  llyi; :i      . lif (*l 13Sf,Je'il'u!c lfaJcft A4anafge  it .-
Durng the site visit, the new Minimaster incinerator was not operational. The staff
explained that this was because of problems related to burning glass bottles and
cans along with the biomedical waste. Until the unit is repaired, all waste is being
bumed in a "campfire" adjacent to the existing incinerator (Figure 15). Significant
amounts of unbumed or partially burned residues could be seen with the
campfire-style open buming method (Figure 16). This method of treatment is
discussed further later in this report.
Figure 15. Campfire-Style Open Buming
e ~  ~ _4,         K  - ,
S.    Waste Disposal
Ash from buming either in the incinerator or campfire is discarded in the area
adjacent to both existing burn areas.
6.    Employee Training
It is clear issues of sharps disposal have been conveyed to staff. It does not
appear there is any "formal" biomedical waste management training at PAH.
8.    Waste Management Organization
There is no management committee or group dealing specifically with biomedical
waste management at PAH.
15



FiRSe T:)D.RFT 1I)u ncot qlotc,ludit ol Bioinediual f      Nh<na. c   P,aezicLs
St. Augustine's Medical Services, St. George's
St. Augustine's Medical Services is a modem, private hospital in Grand Anse, St.
George's. Three-and-a-half years old, the facility offers an in-patient centre for
medical and matemity services; major and minor surgery; an outpatient
department with x-ray, ultrasound, laboratory, and emergency services; and a
pharmaceutical dispensary. The hospital has 18 beds with an occupancy of
about 4-5 beds per day. Managing Director Dr. L.N. Amechi and Nurse Angela
Naraine hosted the site visit. Dr. Amechi commented on the hospital's desire to
implement environmentally friendly best practices for the management of their
wastes.
The hospital generates sharps waste, tissues and anatomical parts, placenta
waste, blood and body fluids, laboratory waste, and other common wastes such
as soiled dressings, bandages, gauze, swabs, etc.  No chemotherapeutic,
radiological, nor isolation wastes are produced.  General garbage is also
produced. Laboratory specimens and cultures are sent to General Hospital.
1.    Policies and Procedures
The hospital has no written policy documents on waste management.
2.    Colour Coding and Signage
Except for sharps which are collected in red-coloured sharps containers, colour
coding is not used in the hospital. All other waste is collected in black plastic
bags. The lack of colour coding and signage is an issue that needs to be
addressed in the future. No signage on waste management was found.
3.    Waste Segregation, Collection, and Transport
Sharps are collected at the point of use in puncture-resistant, plastic sharps
containers ranging in size from 1.4 litres (1.4 qt) to 7.6 litres (8 qt). The large
sharps containers (B-D Guardian brand) are used mainly in the operating theatre,
laboratory, and emergency room (Figure 17). The small sharps containers (B-D
Guardian and Sharps-a-Gator brands) are used in other parts of the facility
(Figure 18). Hospital staff estimated that about 20 large containers are filled
every three months and about four small containers every week. Staff indicated
that needles are removed before disposal.
16



FIRSTDk DR1J: 1   nc1z qfl /           .1( t bl)t?k'ttW(d i fT   DAo anl(I 4ifl nl I7/' aCti Ct-1
,-
Figure 17. Large Sharps Containers at St. Augustine's
. - ..
Figure 18. Small Sharps Containers at St. Augustine's
Cultures are sent to General Hospital. Specimen containers are placed in sealed
plastic containers (i.e., regular containers taken from household products) and
transported to General Hospital in private vehicles. This practice provides added
safety during transport.
Soiled dressings, bandages, gauze, etc. are collected in small separate black
bags (Figure 19). Linens are collected and reused.
~-               a-             -   I
Figure 19. Sample Black Bag
4.    Waste Treatment
17



F:IRST DR L I)R IFT: 1.   of, ri!  q#uhnd' .ii7! iji)i,n(i-(i! (on;qtm .-l(O4VcflICil  ,I, it ('v
Sharps are sealed and bumed in a drum incinerator and the residues are buried.
Blood and body fluids are suctioned and drained in the sink. Glass containers are
washed and disinfected then reused. Anatomical parts from amputations are
sent to the LaQua Brothers crematorium.
Placenta waste is composted and used as fertilizer. This environmentally friendly
method has been used in some developing countries successfully.
Other wastes such as dressings are burned twice a week in a small in-house
incinerator called a "Bunnie 2" (Figure 20). The small incinerator, a rectangular
structure measuring 12.5" wide x 24" high x 11" deep, is installed inside a room. It
has a waste feed door above an ash removal door. The combustion area is
approximately 11" x 100" x 1 1". The exhaust duct goes out of the room to the roof
outside with the stack opening a few feet above the roof line. No technical
documents were found on the Bunnie 2 incinerator. This method of treatment is
discussed further later in this report.
i.., 1,    .,                    -
Figure 20. In-House Incinerator (left) and Waste Feed Section Close-Up (right)
5.    Waste Disposal
Blood and body fluids are drained in the sink and go through two septic tanks
which feed into a soakaway (absorption) pit.
Ashes from waste bumed in a drum incinerator or the small in-house incinerator
are buried. As mentioned, composted placenta waste is used as fertilizer.
6.    Employee Training
There is no specific training on biomedical waste management.
7.    Waste Management Organization
There is no management committee dealing specifically with biomedical waste
management at St. Augustine's.
Gouvave Health Centre, St. John's
18



FIRST I') ,1IDRA   L)TI o rie qvotfo     ofji O i B if h inJt;fi   I'I Ha.'ttf .AIaflPgeomull ., ait fic:ti
Gouyave Health Centre is located in St. John's Parish about 12 km north of St.
George's by road. It provides ante-natal, post-natal, family planning, child care,
dental, and matemity/delivery services.  The health centre has a general
medical/health clinic, chronic disease clinic, pharmacy, mental health services
(once a month), as well as a phlebotomy station for taking samples sent to
General Hospital and blood glucose monitoring for diabetics. As with all the
health centres, the facility is the major primary care unit and, in effect, a triage
area for the region.
The range of waste generated includes sharps, blood and body fluids, placenta,
small tissues, as well as soiled dressings and gauze. Cultures are sent to
General Hospital. No chemotherapy agents are used at the health centre.
The Gouyave Health Centre operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It is staffed
by three district nurses, a family health practitioner, public health nurse, two
community health aides, two caretakers, a groundskeeper, and a pharmacist
shared with Grand Roy Medical Station. As many as 40 patients a day may be
served in the doctor's clinic which is open three times a week, and another 30
patients a day may come in for dressings and other basic health services. About
15 patients come once a week for family planning assistance. Dental extractions
are done two days a week, while dental hygiene for children is provided during
the other three days a week. Data from the ministry show that 3,773 patients
were served by the district medical officer at the Gouyave Health Centre in 2001.
Family nurse practitioner Joan Lewis hosted the site visit.
1.    Policies and Procedures
The health centre has no written policy nor any written procedures on waste
management.
2.    Colour Coding and Signage
Colour coding is not used at the health centre. The consultant found red
containers being used for regular garbage beside a red container used for sharps
(Figure 21).
I. 
Figure 21. Red Garbage Containers (foreground and back)
Near a Red Sharps Container (partially hidden by cabinet)
19



IYR.V.DT 1R1. 1 fT  L) ;Do it cn l uote  An. 'i   ('  .   .  .',  ,.' II LJ'at v/'  2fhC il P, .Cii(i.:.'
Both red and white containers are used for sharps waste. Figure 22 shows two
white or translucent sharps containers under the dressing table beside the pail
used for soiled dressings. No signage regarding waste management was found.
Figure 22. White-Coloured Sharps Containers
3.    Waste Segregation, Collection, and Transport
Sharps (specifically, needles and syringes) are collected in puncture-resistant
sharps containers such as the 6.6 litre (6.9 oz) B-D sharps container shown in
Figure 23. The consultant noted that sharps containers were readily accessible
and could be found in the dental clinic (Figure 24), family planning, district medical
officer's clinic, ante-natal room, phlebotomy station (Figure 25), matemity,
dressing room, and records office. Broken vials are placed in larger tubes and
disposed with other sharps. Nurses reported carrying sharps containers with
them whenever they would conduct immunizations in the field.
I -   . .  . .
Figure 23. 6.6-Litre Sharps Container at Gouyave
20



I-YSI?*7 IS)R.iI7'? Lk,: fl(/ (/J()h   .1ia 7!. Iiii  ' / jile7ftle(! l jccd i'V fh, N!arnt70, i'ndt iE l I<,'e(iicV
Figure 24. Sharps Container in the Dental Clinic
U, -i
Figure 25. Sharps Containers in the Phlebotomy Station
Approximately one container would be filled per week. In the past, sharps
containers were collected by the Ministry of Health in district vehicles and taken to
General Hospital for incineration. The health centre staff reported that sharps
containers have not been collected in some time so they have been incinerating
them on site.
Cultures and pap smears are brought to the General Hospital laboratory through
an ambulance or by private vehicles carried by centre staff.
Small tissues, such as skin tags, removed at the centre are collected along with
swabs and soiled dressing for incineration. Placenta waste is generated at the
rate of about 2-3 times per month. Placenta is collected in white covered pails
(Figure 26) and buried on the centre grounds in a sloping area pictured in Figure
27. This is an acceptable practice but the burial should be deep enough to
prevent animals from digging up the waste.
21



FIRSTDI R.7  C),, rOo t no f(1?0f       .171ii (W iol')IflVdic(Il W.vst   n o e z Praetic-'e
Figure 26. Pails Used For Placenta
Figure 27. Burial Area for Placenta Waste
Dressings are discarded in a metal pail 10" high with a 12" opening (Figure 28).
Bloody gauze and other waste in the dental clinic are collected in a white bin lined
with a black bag (Figure 29).
Figure 28. Metal Pail for Dressings
22



F1RS7IiDR,I?FTD t L)o nfl (JU'           ii .'f BiUInedlt'  . A.I ! 'en Praakv
Figure 29. Container for Blood Gauze and Other Waste in Dental Clinic
The health centre's caretaker is responsible for transporting the wastes to the
incinerator.
4.    Waste Treatment
Waste is burned in a small "incinerator" - a small concrete block enclosure that
has, on the upper part, a large opening on one side for burning and a small
opening at the bottom part for ash (Figure 30). The incinerator is right beside an
older unused incinerator.  The groundskeeper ignites the waste 'in the
incinerator's larger opening using kerosene. Burning is done about three times a
week. Upon closer scrutiny, the consultant found that regular garbage-such as
paper, cans, cardboard, etc.-is also burned in the incinerator (Figure 31).
Figure 30. Incinerator (rght) At Gouyave
23



F S 67`1)RF1 [ :   i:.i not qo 'plo                       M  o-it c.,f ./i 'rD1  ' Vvoe ' l C; o nI  c   Pl',A ; V'niooC%
Figure 31. Unburned Garbage in the Incinerator
The small incinerator was built beside an unused older incinerator of the same
type of construction. Partially burned sharps could be found on the ground
around the incinerator (Figure 32). The appearance of the partially bumed
residues indicates very poor combustion which is characteristic of these types of
open burners. This method of treatment is discussed further later in this report.
Figure 32. Partially Burned Residues on the Ground Around Incinerator
5.    Waste Disposal
Ash residues are apparently disposed of in the grounds surrounding the health
centre.
6.    Employee Training
There is no formal training on biomedical waste management. However, it is
apparent that information on sharps collection has been conveyed to staff since
sharps containers are readily found and used properly.
7.    Waste Management Organization
There is no management committee or group dealing specifically with biomedical
waste management.
St. David's Health Centre. St. David's
St. David's Health Centre is located on the eastem side of the mainland in St.
David's Parish. The facility serves as a health centre and triage area for the
region in conjunction with General Hospital where more extensive procedures are
performed. There are approximately three examination rooms and one dental
examination room. The delivery room is not functional at this time. According to
staff, the health centre sees about 60-80 patients per day. Data from the ministry
show that 2,134 patients were seen by the district medical officer at St. David's in
2001. District health nurse Ms. Rachel Samuel accompanied the consultant on
the tour.
24



1.    Policies and Procedures
No specific policy exists on the management of biomedical waste.
2.     Colour Coding and Signage
No colour coding is used. All waste is collected in black bags.
3.    Waste Segregation, Collection, and Transport
Sharps bins (plastic containers as well as cardboard boxes) are available for use
throughout the facility. Cardboard box sharps containers are shown in Figure 33.
They are collected by staff (health aides or district nurses).  The dental
examination room primarily generates sharps which is collected in a 2-gallon
plastic sharps container (Figure 34). The sharps container takes several weeks
to a few months to fill. Another container, a white pail, is used to collect other
dental waste in the dental clinic (Figure 35).
;                ,,,  a   
r     -   LI
Figure 33. Cardboard Boxes Used for Sharps
rE     ---
Figure 34. Plastic Container for Shamps Waste in the Dental Clinic
25



F'IRS 7" DRA L 7) - 0) r io t n tdoi   c  1?!ti i / ionniff   ie A. k,ni,<.nii'. ;tic.f:1
Figure 35. White Pail for Other Dental Waste
Approximately four years ago, sharps containers were collected and transported
to General Hospital for treatment and disposal. Today, sharps containers and
boxes are brought by the staff to the rear of the facility where they are bumed.
All waste is collected in black bags. Figure 36 shows a bin for domestic waste.
Municipal solid waste is removed by the Solid Waste Management Authority.
Figure 36. Bin For Regular Garbage
4.     Waste Treatment
Biomedical waste, often mixed with regular garbage, is bumed at the rear of the
facility in an old cement incinerator (Figure 37). This method of treatment is
discussed further later in this report.
g'              2
26



/ li's'  R1)R.1 L7. Do rib! quo f!i    .1q?ofii A d i f  1/f 0/ Bi'/ i al HJaae  Wan lJ(:nafm  cm  I ra:tjc.jY
Figure 37. Incinerator at St. David's: Ash Collection (left) and Stack (right)
5.    Waste Disposal
After material is bumed, ash is collected and disposed of along with solid waste.
Some material may be dispersed by wind to the surrounding area during windy
days.
6.    Employee Training
It is clear that issues of sharps disposal have been conveyed to staff as sharp
bins or collection containers are located throughout the facility. Information on
disposal practices is by word of mouth.
7.    Waste Management Organization
There is no management committee or group dealing specifically with biomedical
waste management.
Grand Roy Medical Station. St John's
Grand Roy Medical Station is one of three medical stations linked to Gouyave
Health Centre; the other two are Victoria and Florida Medical Stations. Grand
Roy is 5 km by road south of Gouyave Health Centre. The medical station
provides a limited range of services. Data from the ministry indicate that 897
patients were seen at Grand Roy Medical Station in 2001. Sharps are apparently
the major infectious waste stream of concem. Nurse L. Joseph accompanied the
consultant on a brief tour.
1.    Policies and Procedures
The medical station has no written policy on waste management.
2.    Colour Coding and Signage
Colour coding is not used.
3.    Waste Segregation, Collection, and Transport
Sharps are collected either in red plastic sharps containers (Figure 38) or in
cardboard boxes (Figure 39). The boxes are used for needles, syringes, and
empty ampoules, and bottles. Figure 38 also shows a blue container for soiled
dressings and other waste.
27



- 
Figure 38. Red Plastic Sharps Container
Figure 39. Cardboard Containers Used for Sharps
4.    Waste Treatment
The waste is burned once a week in a small open-bum incinerator of similar
design as that found in Gouyave Health Centre (Figure x33-34). As is done in
Gouyave, regular garbage is also burned in the open bumer. This method of
treatment is discussed further later in this report.
Figure 40. Incinerator at Grand Roy
5.    Waste Disposal
Ash residues are apparently disposed of in the facility grounds.
28



flRS;7 L)1KI iT   Do rDio (mIote        171it 0  iI , j'Jlzst. ? 4A'IOfla(P,.el I I Pl'1authC'-
6.    Employee Training
There is no formal training on biomedical waste management.
7.    Waste Management Organization
There is no management committee or group dealing specifically with biomedical
waste management.
Princess Royale Hospital, Carriacou
Note: The inforrnation below on Princess Royale Hospital was obtained through
an in-depth interview with the administrator, Ms. Ester Henry-Fleary. A site visit
was not possible due to difficulties in arranging transportation to the island.
Princess Royale Hospital in Belair, Carriacou, is a 32-bed institution with an
average occupancy of about 8 beds per day. It is situated on a hill in the middle
of the island. The hospital provides matemity, pediatric, and 24-hour emergency
services. The facility has male and female wards, and a small hematology unit
for complete blood count (CBC) tests only. There are two private rooms that can
be used as isolation rooms but there have been no cases requiring isolation.
Medical instruments are sterilized using an autoclave. The hospital does not
have a laboratory nor x-ray services. No surgery is conducted. In the future, the
hospital may be upgraded to provide x-ray, laboratory, and other services.
1.    Policies and Procedures
The hospital has no written policy on waste management.
2.    Colour Coding and Signage
Colour coding is not used.
3.    Waste Segregation, Collection, and Transport
Sharps are collected in disposable sharps containers, described as red boxes
donated from the U.S. The containers have a round opening at the top. When
the containers are full, they are emptied and reused. Placenta is placed in plastic
bags and burned. Soiled dressings are collected in flip-top bins lined with
garbage bags. They are collected daily and put in a large closed bin for storage
until the end of the week when they are burned.
4.    Waste Treatment
An incinerator was installed about nine or ten years ago but it has been out of
service for two years. The British company that supplied parts for it went out of
business so broken parts have not been replaced. Since then, waste is bumed in
an open pit. The bum pit is at the edge of the hospital grounds to keep smoke
away from the facility. This method of treatment is discussed further in the next
section.
29



OIRS7iI)Rf.i [ l  I ) noi              hf  ii ,! Ij 'ic3 d i E.caf k, ac ! i ' !i/c'j.'
5.    Waste Disposal
Regular sewage from toilets and other drains, as well as effluent from the sluice
room, go through a septic tank and soakaway. Ash residues are apparently left in
the open pit. Since the pit is on a hill, there is some concem for adverse
environmental impacts of runoff due to rains.
6.    Employee Training
There is no formal training on biomedical waste management.
7.    Waste Management Organization
There is no management committee or group dealing specifically with biomedical
waste management.
A                                                            _-  *  -g  -
Burning has been the main method for biomedical waste treatment in Grenada.
The types of buming systems found in the country are as follows:
*  Campfire-style open buming
*  Open-pit buming
*  Cement firebox with a roof
*  Drum incinerator
*  Cement block open burners
*  In-house "Bunnie 2" incinerator
* Use of the crematorium
*  Controlled incinerator
The campfire-style open buming used in Princess Alice Hospital simply employs
a ring of rocks to enclose the waste as it is burned on open ground. This method
poses an immediate risk of spreading fire especially during dry weather. The
large amounts of partially bumed residues show that very poor combustion
conditions exist resulting in inadequate levels of disinfection. Moreover, open
burning releases many air pollutants such as particulates and carbon monoxide.
If chlorinated plastics are burned, highly toxic organic compounds such as
chlorinated dioxins and furans are formed as well as hydrogen chloride, a toxic
gas. Toxic metals may also be released if the waste includes mercury, lead, and
other heavy metals.
Open-pit burning is used in Princess Royale Hospital in Carriacou. Like campfire-
style buming, open pit buming also poses some fire hazard, does not adequately
destroy pathogens, and releases many pollutants.
The old cement firebox previously used in Princess Alice Hospital may not
adequately destroy pathogens and releases pollutants into the air. The cement
enclosure would be a step better than the campfire since it may reduce the fire
30



hazard compared to campfire and open-pit buming. But is essential that the
surrounding area is cleared completely of vegetation and other combustible
material. The same could be said about drum incinerators such as one reportedly
used by St. Augustine's.
The cement block open-bum incinerators seem to be in common use. They were
found in Gouyave, Grand Roy, and St. David's. According to one source, these
incinerators were built in the last 10 years. The upper bum section is simply a
cement firebox with one side open. Waste is placed into the burn section through
the large opening. As with all forms of open burning, there is a risk of spreading
fire. The incinerators in Gouyave and Grand Roy, for example, are surrounded
by low-lying vegetation which may catch fire especially during unusually dry, hot
days. Furthermore, open bumers do not achieve high enough temperatures to
ensure a high level of disinfection. They also emit many air pollutants to the
surrounding area. Whenever chlorinated plastics are burned, those pollutants
include highly toxic organic compounds as well as hydrogen chloride. Toxic
metals may also be released if the waste includes mercury, lead, and other heavy
metals. The conditions of poor combustion are shown by the large amounts of
partially burned residues including sharps found on the ground around the
incinerators.
It is difficult to assess the Bunnie 2 incinerator at St. Augustine's because of the
lack of technical documentation. The system seems to use electrical heaters and
controls. If so, higher combustion temperatures may be achieved compared to all
the incinerators described so far. Since it is a single-chamber design, however,
one would expect the release of air pollutants possibly including toxic organic
compounds, acid gases, and metals.
General Hospital and other facilities such as St. Augustine's take their
pathological waste to the LaQua Brothers crematorium. A crematorium is
specifically designed to burn pathological waste. Assuming it is a relatively
modem design, the crematorium would likely reach high temperatures to achieve
high levels of disinfection. However, crematoriums are not designed to handle
plastics (especially chlorinated plastics), metals, and other material found in
health-care waste. The crematorium would likely not have air pollution control
devices to remove dioxins and furans, other chlorinated hydrocarbons, particulate
matter, hydrogen chloride, mercury, cadmium, lead, and other toxic pollutants.
The use of the crematorium is supposedly a temporary measure until a treatment
technology is in place at the new hospital.
The new incinerator at Princess Alice Hospital, an Evans Tabo Universal
Minimaster (Leeds, UK) seems to be a dual-chamber, controlled air incinerator
although this was not established since technical documentation was not
available. The incinerator has a controller on the left side and two oil bumers-
either two bumers for the primary chamber or a bumer and an afterburner. This
indicates that the incinerator is designed to reach high temperatures using
electronic controls. Except for a possible afterburner, there are no other obvious
air pollution control devices in the incinerator. Thus, while this incinerator may
achieve higher levels of disinfection than the other buming methods discussed,
pollutant releases will likely not meet U.S. EPA or European Union emission
31



limits. At the time of the site visit, the incinerator was inoperable because of
problems with the incinerator.
State-of-the-art incinerators generally involve a rotary kiln or dual-chamber design
with auxiliary burners and controllers to carefully control and maintain high
temperatures. The incinerator chambers must operate at about 1,500-3,000 IF
(800-1,600 0C). In the 1960's, many of the new hospital incinerators then were
dual-chamber controlled-air designs: medical waste bumed in a primary chamber
operating typically at 1,400 OF (760 OC) with controlled amounts of air, followed by
a secondary chamber operating usually between 1,800-2,200 OF (980-1,200 0C).
Controllers, auxiliary burners in both chambers, and an air injection system were
used to maintain high temperatures. The new controlled incinerator in Princess
Alice Hospital belongs to an older generation of incinerators.
Biomedical waste incinerators are a known source of highly toxic dioxins and
furans, particulate matter (fly ash), hydrogen chloride, hydrogen fluoride, sulfur
dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, lead, mercury, cadmium, arsenic, and
other air pollutants, as well as hazardous ash. Air pollution control devices, such
as scrubbers and baghouse filters, lessen but do not eliminate these air
pollutants. Dioxins and furans are considered among the most toxic substances
because of the extremely low doses at which they can affect humans and
animals.  Particulate matter not only contribute to air pollution but can be
dangerous in themselves because of trace amounts of toxic chemicals that
adsorb on the surface of particulates which can then be inhaled into the lungs.
Gases such as hydrogen chloride and sulfur dioxide contribute to air pollution,
form acid rain, and can damage plants directly or through their acidity. Heavy
metals such as lead and mercury are toxic when taken into the body; they are
released with the fly ash and deposited on soil or surface water thereby
contaminating the environment.
Single-chamber incinerators, which only operate at about 550 to 750 OF (about
300-400 OC), emit black smoke and volatile organic compounds in addition to the
pollutants listed above. Unfortunately, the temperatures at which single-chamber
incinerators operate fall within the temperature range in which highly toxic dioxins
and furans are formed, i.e., 480-840 OF (250-450 0C). If proper operating
conditions are not met, as in the case of the open-bum methods, incinerators
could also release pathogens through discharge air and residues.
Research has shown that destruction of test spores take place when the waste is
exposed to a minimum of 1,400 OF (760 0C) in a primary chamber and 1,600 OF
(870 0C) in a secondary chamber with a 1.2 second residence time. Some
regulatory authorities require a minimum temperature of 1,800 OF (980 0C) in the
secondary chamber and a minimum 2-second residence time as a safety factor to
ensure total destruction of all pathogens. Most likely, none of the technologies
described above can meet this standard.
As already noted, the engineered Perseverance landfill in the mainland was not in
use during the time of the site visit because of the collapse of a portion of the
32



1:7R )/.1STDRAI.F Do Wdrio q1h)!C       .ud,zii ofB;iwne,fitl! iJ1o;t I'Ia  .ogntiwli PIrattk'cv
landfill. Once the landfill is back in operation, it will be an important component of
a cradle-to-grave biomedical waste management system.
During visits to the landfill, the old dumpsite, and the offices of the Solid Waste
Management Authority (SWMA), workers repeatedly informed the consultant of
finding sharps in the waste on regular occasions. Some suggested that the
sharps, mainly needles and syringes, might come from private physicians' offices
as sharps are discarded with their domestic waste. At the old dumpsite, one
worker reported finding needles in the waste only a few days before. Waste
pickers are not allowed in the landfill thereby reducing the problem of needle-stick
injuries. However, it is essential that the landfill workers also be protected from
needle-stick injuries.
Some SWMA staff stated that they could accept treated biomedical waste if they
are informed ahead of time. Waste, such as ashes or sharps, should be
packaged well so as to minimize handling and exposure to workers. If necessary,
biomedical waste could be buried in specially designated area.
Disposal of Expired Pharmaceuticals
With regards to expired or condemned pharmaceuticals, Chief Pharmacist Mr.
Benedict Newton explained that in the local dispensaries, liquids are generally
diluted and flushed down the drain while tablets are dissolved, diluted, and also
flushed down the drain. Antibiotics are emptied down the sink. For large
volumes especially from pharmaceutical warehouses, an arrangement is made
with the landfill for quick burial and compaction. Some facilities have been able to
return expired drugs to manufacturers for substitution or replenishment.
An official of a major private pharmaceutical firm explained that expired drugs are
either buried on site or at the Perseverance landfill. Liquid medicines such as
cough syrup and tonics are emptied in a hole on the ground and excess mud is
added. This usually involves a maximum of about 200 ml of liquid at any given
time. Tablets are removed from the containers and placed in plastic bags.
Landfill staff is notified; they then designate where the bags would be buried. An
amount equivalent to half a regular trash bag is disposed of every three to four
months.
Notes on Recommendations
Short-term recommendations are provided for immediate implementation to
address imminent hazards and to protect health and the environment, and
enhance worker safety. They may include some temporary measures as part of
a transition to the full implementation of best practices and a national biomedical
waste management system.
SHORT-TERM RECOMMENDATIONS:
General Hospital:
33



FJR.7 DR-ST I1:  1oT r I)()  (olA'     v wi .f (,y iR.'meuwu! iJ*j.Et' N  7(f'Z'!fl1 U  i
*  Sharps containers should not be overfilled. When about 3/4th full, they should
be removed and replaced with empty containers.
*  Ideally, sharps containers should not be emptied out unless the sharps waste
has already been treated (such as in an autoclave designed for infectious
waste treatment) and only if a safe method is used (such as automated
systems that empty containers with minimum handling).  Until such a
management system is in place, it is essential that workers be provided with
added protection, including face-shields, puncture-resistant gloves and
aprons to be worn whenever sharps containers are being emptied. Sharps
containers should be washed thoroughly and disinfected prior to reuse.
*  Personnel who are involved in emptying out bottles or vials of blood or body
fluids should be provided with face-shields, gloves, and aprons to protect
them from splashes of blood or body fluids.
*  The hospital should check to determine if the duct from the sluice room in the
laboratory drains into the hospital's sanitary sewer. If so, then the open
section where the duct ends and the effluent drains into the sewer should be
closed to prevent exposure of the public to the wastewater. If the effluent
flows into an open storm drain and is discharged without treatment, then the
duct should be re-routed and connected to the hospital's sanitary sewer
system.
*  Until the installation of a treatment technology, the hospital should minimize,
and as much as possible eliminate, waste with high metal content (e.g.,
mercury thermometers, batteries), halogenated plastics (e.g., plastics made
of polyvinyl chloride or PVC), organic solvents (e.g., formaldehyde, xylenes),
and pressurized containers (e.g., aerosol cans) in the waste that is sent to the
LaQua Brothers crematorium for buming.
As a temporary altemative in the absence of a treatment technology, the
hospital could bury its biomedical waste in the engineered landfill under a
special arrangement with the Solid Waste Management Authority. The waste
should be placed in appropriate packaging to prevent breakage during
transport and disposal. Whenever waste from the hospital is brought to the
landfill, the landfill operators should be informed ahead of time. The landfill
operators should designate a special area where the waste can be buried
immediately with minimal handling by landfill workers.
*  The storage of biomedical waste boxes in alleys and hallways creates a
hindrance to the means of egress and could pose a hazard during an
emergency. The waste boxes should be moved to another storage site
where there is less access to the waste by the public and where movement of
people is not impeded. Moreover, the removal of waste should be done on a
more frequent basis.
*  Toxic solvents such as formaldehyde should not be poured into drains. They
should be stored and treated as hazardous waste in accordance to current or
future hazardous waste management regulations.
34



F1X"ST L)[ 117T: Do nt.                      / Bi';,nedii quo!e .lra'Iearwgnn11 PIniC i v
*  Due to shortages in supplies, tubes are reused. The laboratory should
consider decreasing the amount of chemical disinfectants discharged into the
sewer. One method could be the use of the autoclave, instead of the
ovemight soaking in hypochlorite solution, to disinfect the tubes while adding
additional nnsing steps to remove dried blood.
* Since red bags are available in the facility, the hospital should promote the
consistent use of colour coding in order to clearly distinguish between
infectious waste (red bags or red containers) and regular garbage (black
bags). More education should be provided to ensure that hospital staff knows
what items should and should not be placed in red bags.
* Regular garbage containers in open corridors should be fitted with covers to
prevent odors, spillage, and scavenging by animals.
* The infection control committee should be revived and strengthened. Among
its immediate tasks is the coordination of in-service training on existing
policies dealing with infectious waste, in particular, sharps management and
segregation. The committee should also ensure that the existing policies on
waste management are consistently implemented.
Princess Alice Hospital:
* Ideally, sharps containers should not be emptied out unless the sharps waste
has already been treated (such as in an autoclave designed for sharps waste
treatment) and only if a safe method is used (such as automated systems that
empty containers with minimum handling). Until such a management system
is in place, it is essential that workers be provided with added protection,
including face-shields, puncture-resistant gloves and aprons to be wom
whenever sharps containers are being emptied. Sharps containers should be
washed thoroughly and disinfected prior to reuse.
* Cardboard boxes and plastic bags should be used for sharps only if sharps
waste is first collected in rigid, puncture-resistant, plastic containers. These
hard containers can then be sealed and placed in cardboard boxes or plastic
bags for temporary storage. Every effort should be made to prevent needle-
stick injuries to the groundskeepers and others transporting the boxes or
bags.
*  The campfire-style of buming waste should be discontinued because of the
potential fire hazard and environmental problems. If the cement firebox is
used instead, it is essential that the surrounding area first be cleared of any
vegetation and other combustible materials. Furthermore, the firebox itself
should be cleaned and retumed to working order. Waste with high metal
content (e.g., thermometers, batteries), halogenated plastics (e.g., plastics
made of polyvinyl chloride), organic solvents, and pressurized containers
should not be bumed in the firebox.
35



Until a centralized treatment system is put in place or a new treatment
technology is installed on site, a better alternative would be to arrange for the
disposal of biomedical waste in a restricted section of the landfill. The waste
should be placed in appropriate packaging (puncture-resistant containers for
sharps; leak-proof containers for liquid/semi-liquid waste) to prevent breakage
during transport and disposal. Whenever biomedical waste from the hospital
is brought to the landfill, the landfill operators should be informed ahead of
time. The landfill operators should designate a special area where the waste
can be buried immediately with minimal handling by landfill workers.
* A committee should be created to deal with biomedical waste management.
The task of the committee in the immediate term should be the
implementation of an educational programme to ensure proper segregation,
collection (including sharps management), transport, and treatment of
biomedical waste. The programme should be monitored with feedback from
the staff. Additional information could be disseminated through a hospital
newsletter or bulletin.
St. Augustine's Medical Services:
*  Needle clippers should be avoided since they may result in needle-stick
injuries to the workers cutting off the needles. Since the sharps waste is
apparently buried on site, it eliminates the problem of needle-stick injuries to
waste pickers scavenging in uncontrolled dumpsites; thus, needle cutting is
unnecessary.  If needles need to be removed for any reason, newer
electronic needle destruction technologies should be considered.
If sharps waste is buried on site, the burial area should be clearly delineated
and marked with signs to prevent accidentally digging up the waste in the
future. A better alternative would be to encapsulate the waste with cement, a
method accepted by the World Health Organization. That is, after a hole of
sufficient depth is made, it could be filled with about 65% sharps waste, 15%
lime, 15% cement, and about 5% water until it hardens, after which it could be
covered in soil.
Alternatively, sharps waste could also be buried in the landfill under a special
arrangement with the Solid Waste Management Authority. The sharps waste
should be placed in appropriate packaging to prevent breakage during
transport and disposal. Whenever sharps waste from the hospital is brought
to the landfill, the landfill operators should be informed ahead of time. The
landfill operators should designate a special area where the waste can be
buried immediately with minimal handling by landfill workers.
*  Hospital staff involved in draining out bottles, canisters, or vials of blood or
body fluids should be provided with face-shields, gloves, and aprons to
protect them from splashes of blood or body fluids.
*  As much as possible, waste with high metal content (e.g., thermometers,
batteries), halogenated plastics (e.g., plastics made of polyvinyl chloride),
organic solvents, and pressurized containers should not be bumed in the
36



[JRST7 L)IT 7Do not qtorfo             ,nditi: P,iiXte Mlarage'e;1n I e aciic;v
Bunnie 2 incinerator. Periodic maintenance of the incinerator should be done
in accordance to manufacturer's specifications. Ash residues should be
removed regularly, if this is not done already. Waste with high metal content,
halogenated plastics, organic solvents, and pressurized containers should not
be included in the waste sent to the crematorium for buming. Buming sharps
in a drum incinerator may result in additional handling of partially destroyed
sharps residues as well as the release of environmental pollutants. Direct
burial on site in the manner described above would be preferable.
* A committee should be created to educate the staff about biomedical waste
management including sharps management.
Gouvave Health Centre:
*  Burning of sharps waste in the open burner results in partially burned
residues that have to be handled again for burial. Some sharps residues fall
to the ground around the incinerator and pose additional hazards.
Instead of burning the sharps waste, they could be directly buried on site
since the amount of infectious waste is small. The burial area should be
clearly marked with signs and fenced in to prevent access to unauthorized
persons. A better alternative would be to encapsulate the waste with cement.
That is, after a hole of sufficient depth is made, it could be filled with about
65% sharps waste, 15% lime, 15% cement, and about 5% water until it
hardens, after which it could be covered in soil.
*  Care should be taken when transporting cultures to General Hospital. They
should be placed in sealed plastic containers to prevent breakage, if ,this is
not already done.
*  Because of the inefficiency of the open bum method, the fire hazard, and the
release of pollutants, wastes should preferably also be buried on site in deep
holes and in an area that is clearly marked with signs and fenced in to prevent
access by unauthorized persons or animals.
If the incinerator is to be used, regular garbage should not be burned.
Wastes with high metal content (e.g., thermometers, batteries), halogenated
plastics (e.g., plastics made of polyvinyl chloride), and pressurized containers
should also not be bumed. Burning, if at all, should be limited to bloody
dressings, gauze, and other material as well as small tissues. It is essential
that the area around the incinerator be kept clean and cleared of all
vegetation and combustible material. Periodic maintenance of the incinerator
should be done, including regular removal of ash residues to allow good air
flow.
*  A committee should be formed to deal with biomedical waste management.
The committee should implement an educational programme to ensure
proper segregation, collection (including sharps management), transport, and
treatment of biomedical waste. The programme should be monitored with
feedback from the staff.
37



Di ,'  '   /   )1 '   rPon l q'd'..      f C di   ' i, fi nei.dic:ctl `J'~:e l ;, t(!(il,
St. David's Health Centre:
* Cardboard boxes should not be used for sharps unless sharps waste is first
collected in rigid, puncture-resistant, plastic containers. The plastic containers
can then be sealed and placed in cardboard boxes. Every effort should be
made to prevent needle-stick injuries.
*  Burning of waste in the incinerator results in partially bumed residues .and air
pollutants. Instead of buming the sharps waste, they could be directly buried
on site since the amount of infectious waste is small. The burial area should
be clearly marked with signs and fenced in to prevent access to unauthorized
persons. An alternative for sharps waste would be to encapsulate. That is,
after a hole of sufficient depth is made, it could be filled with about 65%
sharps waste, 15% lime, 15% cement, and about 5% water until it hardens,
after which it could be covered in soil.
Alternatively, sharps waste could also be buried in the landfill under a special
arrangement with the Solid Waste Management Authority. The sharps waste
should be placed in appropriate packaging to prevent breakage during
transport and disposal. Whenever sharps waste from the hospital is brought
to the landfill, the landfill operators should be informed ahead of time. The
landfill operators should designate a special area where the waste can be
buried immediately with minimal handling by landfill workers.
If the incinerator is to be used, regular garbage should not be burned.
Wastes with high metal content, halogenated plastics, organic solvents, and
pressurized containers should also not be bumed. The area around the
incinerator should be kept clean and cleared of all vegetation and combustible
material. Periodic maintenance of the incinerator should be done, including
regular removal of ash residues to allow good air flow.
* Ash residues from the incinerator should not be left on the ground but should
be buried on site.
* A committee should be formed to deal with biomedical waste management.
The committee should implement an educational programme to ensure
proper segregation, collection (including sharps management), transport, and
treatment of biomedical waste. The programme should be monitored with
feedback from the staff.
Grand Roy Medical Station:
* Cardboard boxes should be used for sharps only if sharps waste is first
collected in rigid, puncture-resistant, plastic containers. These hard plastic
containers can then be sealed and placed in cardboard boxes. Every effort
should be made to prevent needle-stick injuries.
38



F7JRfT  I.)KI   Lt:   ni 11(1ttK!  .'     dif o/ Di.nn,4icu1 11 z';Il A'Iar1qg(wnt PractitticV
Buming of waste in the incinerator results in partially bumed residues and air
pollutants. Instead of buming the sharps waste, they could be directly buried
on site since the amount of infectious waste is small. The burial area should
be clearly marked with signs and fenced in to prevent access to unauthorized
persons. An altemative for sharps waste would be to encapsulate. That is,
after a hole of sufficient depth is made, it could be filled with about 65%
sharps waste, 15% lime, 15% cement, and about 5% water until it hardens,
after which it could be covered in soil.
Alternatively, sharps waste could also be buried in the landfill under a special
arrangement with the Solid Waste Management Authority. The sharps waste
should be placed in appropriate packaging to prevent breakage during
transport and disposal. Whenever sharps waste from the hospital is brought
to the landfill, the landfill operators should be informed ahead of time. The
landfill operators should designate a special area where the waste can be
buried immediately with minimal handling by landfill workers.
If the incinerator is to be used, regular garbage should not be bumed.
Wastes with high metal content, halogenated plastics, organic solvents, and
pressurized containers should also not be burned. The area around the
incinerator should be kept clean and cleared of all vegetation and combustible
material. Periodic maintenance of the incinerator should be done, including
regular removal of ash residues to allow good air flow.
*  Ash residues from the incinerator should not be left on the ground but should
be buried on site.
*  A committee should be formed to deal with biomedical waste management.
The committee should implement an educational programme to ensure
proper segregation, collection (including sharps management), transport, and
treatment of biomedical waste. The programme should be monitored with
feedback from the staff.
Princess Royale Hospital (based on data from a phone interview):
*  Ideally, sharps containers should not be emptied out unless the sharps waste
has already been treated and only if a safe method is used to empty the
containers with minimal handling. Until such a management system is in
place, it is essential that workers be provided with added protection, including
face-shields, puncture-resistant gloves and aprons to be worn whenever
sharps containers are being emptied. Sharps containers should be washed
thoroughly and disinfected prior to reuse.
*  Buming of waste in an open pit could pose fire hazards, result in unbumed or
partially bumed residues, and release air pollutants. Until an altemative
technology is installed, waste could be directly buried on site instead of
buming. The burial area should be clearly marked with signs and fenced in to
prevent access to unauthorized persons or animals. An altemative for sharps
and other waste would be to encapsulate. That is, after a hole of sufficient
39



1'J11?S7 D)R  I.FT  DO,) fl(d zIejUh   .- 7!fdit 0! li ,enefiual/ JjI;Z.e .'IloneNemon, I,aePc
depth is made, it could be filled with about 65% sharps waste, 15% lime, 15%
cement, and about 5% water until it hardens, after which it could be covered
in soil.
*  Ash residues from the open pit should not be left on the ground but should be
buried on site to prevent dispersal by wind or runoff.
*  A committee should be formed to deal with biomedical waste management.
The committee should implement an educational programme to ensure
proper segregation, collection (including sharps management), transport, and
treatment of biomedical waste. The programme should be monitored with
feedback from the staff.  Additional information could be disseminated
through a hospital newsletter or bulletin.
Pharmaceutical Units:
*  Moderate quantities of relatively mild liquid or semi-liquid pharmaceuticals
such as vitamin solutions, cough syrups, eye drops, saline solutions,
intravenous fluids, etc. can be diluted with large amounts of water and
discharged into the sanitary sewer. However, the World Health Organization
recommends against discharging antibiotics into the sanitary sewer. Further
recommendations on the disposal of expired pharmaceuticals will be provided
in the draft national biomedical waste management plan.
LONG-TERM RECOMMENDATIONS
Note: These long-tenm recommendations are provided for the purpose of
obtaining feedback from stakeholders in Grenada, including offlcials of the
Ministry of Health and the Environment, Solid Waste Management Authority, and
administrators and staff of the hospitals, health centres, medical stations, and
other health-care facilities. Feedback and comments on these recommendations
will be the basis for the development of a draft national biomedical waste
management plan for Grenada.
1.    National Laws and Regulations
Regulations on biomedical waste management should be promulgated by the
Ministry of Health and the Environment. The following elements should be
considered:
* Clear definitions of what constitutes biomedical waste and its categories
*  Cradle-to-grave approach to biomedical waste management
*  Coordination with hazardous (non-biomedical) waste management laws as
well as other laws dealing with health (including prevention of infectious
diseases, hospital hygiene and infection control), sanitation, environment (air
quality, water quality, land disposal), and occupational safety and health
40



I /IRS7 TDRI?.1 FT  Do not q/vore        Iudzi (ii l(VmBinf(edii_w  iiz' f :.:fAI 4!f?l!emenI PraI,iciwV
*  Delineation of responsible national and local govemment authorities for
implementation
* Legal obligations of the biomedical waste generator
* Provisions related to record-keeping and reporting
* Provisions related to any fees for transport, treatment, and final disposal
* Provisions related to inspections for the purpose of enforcement, penalties for
non-compliance, and legal procedures for handling disputes related to
enforcement.
2.    Institutional Policy, Administration, and Organization
Every hospital or health care facility should have a written policy on biomedical
waste management. The policy should state the facility's objective of providing a
system for management of biomedical waste in order to protect patients, staff,
and the general public from hazards associated with biomedical waste. It should
provide an overview of responsibilities and outline major procedures for
biomedical waste management. A sample institutional policy is provided in
Appendix A2.
Proper management of biomedical waste depends on good administration and
organization. The waste management structure depends on the size and
complexity of the facility. For the hospitals, it is recommended that hospital waste
management teams be established. Each team should be headed by the
hospital administrator who is also the designated contact with the regulatory
authority.
The administrator should appoint one member of the team as the Waste
Management Officer responsible for the day-to-day operation and monitoring of
the waste management system. Because the Waste Management Officer must
have access to all members of the hospital staff, it is important that the team
include all department heads. Waste management will entail costs so the
hospital's financial officer or accountant should also be part of the team.
Therefore, the ideal Waste Management Team should be comprised of:
* Hospital Administrator (Chair of the Team)
* Department Heads
* Matron or Senior Nursing Officer
* Infection Control Officer and/or Hospital Hygienist
* Hospital Engineer or Maintenance Supervisor
* Financial Officer or Accountant
* Other staff (with relevant training or responsibilities) as needed
The responsibilities of the Waste Management Team are:
1. To develop a written waste management policy, specific guidelines, and plan
for implementation
2. To review and revise (as needed) the policy, guidelines, and implementation
plan on a periodic basis
41



F:   DkS Di.*i f7T Ll, not r(/W)c;     A1 7!iiii,lf leh V 1I,Vate MoI:genluic
3. To ensure adequate financial and human resources for efficient operation and
monitoring of the plan.
As mentioned, one of the above team members should be appointed the Waste
Management Officer (this could be the Infection Control Officer, for example).
The Waste Management Officer reports directly to the hospital administrator and
should have direct access to all staff members. The responsibilities of the Waste
Management Officer are:
1. To facilitate communications among members of the Waste Management
Team to ensure that proper procedures are implemented, including timely
internal collection, emergency procedures, and reporting
2. To monitor and evaluate waste handling and disposal operations with the
help of the Infection Control Officer, this may entail a comprehensive risk
assessment of all activities with the help of other members of the team
3. To ensure that adequate supplies are available
4. To maintain records of the amounts and types of waste generated, accidents,
unusual operational events, and non-compliance
5. To ensure that all staff members are aware of their responsibilities regarding
biomedical waste and to work with staff on the training programmes
6. To identify items that need modification in the policy, guidelines, or plan.
Other team members have responsibilities regarding biomedical waste:
*  The Department Heads and Matron should ensure that staff within their
departments are familiar with the policy, guidelines, and plan, and have
received training; they should also make sure any incidents are reported
to the Waste Management Officer.
*  If the Infection Control Officer is not the Waste Management Officer, the
Infection Control Officer should act as a technical consultant to the Waste
Management Officer, participate in evaluating waste handling and
disposal operations, and work with the Waste Management Officer and
others in ensuring that the training programme is implemented
*  The Hospital Engineer or Maintenance Supervisor should ensure that the
maintenance or engineering staff receives training and should consult
with the Waste Management Officer on matters dealing with the treatment
technology.
*  The Financial Officer should consult with the Waste Management Officer
on matters dealing with supplies and budgetary needs, and should
investigate options to minimize waste or reduce toxicity through product
substitutions (e.g., using non-toxic substitutes for toxic solvents, replacing
halogenated plastic disposables with non-halogenated equivalents,
finding vendors willing to take back expired pharmaceuticals, etc.).
3.    Occupational Safety and Health
42



FII?.' 7~1 FL; 1F .)/ n: ,! c,h).       .  d q!,iis 0/  )l   i'J'.csf .N1;I(c;' faWUl
Personal protective equipment should be made available to all personnel who
handle, transport, and treat biomedical waste. Orderlies and other staff who pick
up and transport biomedical waste should be provided with heavy-duty gloves,
boots or shoes with thick soles, and coveralls. Gloves are essential to prevent
lacerations, bums from hot surfaces (such as with a treatment technology), or
contact with any chemical or biological material. Boots or shoes with thick soles
and good traction should also be provided to protect from spilled sharps,
chemicals, and slippery surfaces. Plastic coveralls provide protection from blood
splatter and splashes from body fluids or chemicals. Leg protectors may be used
in situations where the legs of waste workers may be in contact with waste bags.
Health-care workers that deal in situations where they may be splashed with
blood, body fluids, solvents, corrosive chemicals, or other hazardous liquids
should be provided with eye and face protection. They should be used by staff
members when discarding free-flowing blood and body fluids in the sewer.
Immunization from viral hepatitis and tetanus is recommended for all waste
handlers as well as other health-care staff. Basic personal hygiene is also
important and should be emphasized during training.  Convenient washing
facilities with warm water and soap should be available.
4.    Waste Segregation and Classification
Segregation, or the separation of specific types of waste from other types of
waste, is key to effective management of medical waste. It is the responsibility of
the waste generator. Potentially infectious waste should be segregated from
regular garbage as close as possible to the point where the waste is generated.
Segregation should be maintained during storage and transport up to the point of
treatment. To be effective, the same system of segregation should apply
throughout the country.
There are many ways of classifying the different components of biomedical
waste. In light of the types of waste produced in Grenada, a simple classification
is recommended in Table 11 focusing on the biomedical waste categories that
pose the greatest hazards, as explained below.
Sharps pose a potential disease transmission hazards because of their ability to
create a portal of entry through the skin. In particular, needle-stick injuries are a
known cause of the spread of infectious diseases and a serious occupational
hazard.
Cultures and stocks may contain high concentrations of disease-causing agents.
Laboratory workers must use extreme caution to avoid inadvertent exposure to
these pathogens and untreated cultures should be rendered noninfectious,
preferably on site, prior to disposal.
Inadvertent contact with blood through cuts or mucous membranes has been
associated with the transmission of disease by blood-bome pathogens such as
HIV and hepatitis B. The risk comes from contact with blood or body fluids in
liquid form which is capable of splashing in the eyes or other mucous
membranes. Most blood-borne pathogens have a limited ability to multiply or
43



i       I/,' "  DR)R, : i1..)o nl(e t)f 'OW  .ll!tii e! JiomediufliCOl  A 'lan ,,I n ,,',ir I /'1k..Y
remain viable longer than a few hours or a few days in dried blood. For this
reason, the main focus of concem is liquid blood.
While pathological waste has not been generally implicated in disease
transmission, it has potentially infective qualities.  Moreover, there may be
aesthetic, cultural, or religious factors that may determine how pathological waste
is treated and disposed. In general, they can be treated in a treatment technology
and buried in a sanitary landfill. Placentas and human fetuses can be interred in
special burial sites. Placentas have been used for making compost in one facility.
The main concern relating to animal waste would be animal carcasses that have
been inoculated with infectious agents or any animals exposed to pathogens
such as those that cause transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ("mad cow
disease"). This may be a concern associated with the veterinary hospital and
veternary school. Regular abattoir waste is not included in this category.
In many countries, isolation waste is only limited to wastes generated from
patients infected with certain highly communicable diseases, specifically defined
as Class 4 agents such as Ebola, Crimean hemorrhagic fever, Lassa fever,
Marburg, etc.  The hospital's infection control committee should determine
whether waste from specific isolation rooms should have special handling,
treatment, and disposal.
Table II. Biomedical Waste Categories (Classification I)
Waste           Description        Examples                    Where Found
Category
Sharps         Items that could cut  Hypodermic needles, syringes,  Nursing Stations,
or puncture         suture needles, scalpel and  Laboratory,
regardless of whether other blades, lancets, saws,  Emergency Room,
they are infected or  knives, broken or unbroken  Surgery, Matemity
not                glass, vials, tubes, pipettes, etc.  Ward, Clinics
Cultures and    Cultures and stocks  Human and animal cell cultures,  Laboratory,
Stocks         of infectious agents  stocks of etiologic agents,  Microbiology
and associated     discarded live and attenuated
biologicals        vaccine or serum, culture dishes
and other devices used to
transfer, inoculate or mix cell
cultures
Human Blood,   Free-flowing blood,  Free-flowing blood or blood  Patient Wards,
Blood Products,  components or     components, semen, vaginal  Surgery,
and Body Fluids  products of blood,  secretions, cerebrospinal fluid,  Laboratory,
and specific body  synovial fluid, pleural fluid,  Emergency Room
fluids              pericardial fluid, pertitoneal fluid,
amniotic fluid, saliva in dental
procedures, and body fluids
contaminated with blood
Pathological    Human pathological  Tissues, organs, anatomical  Surgery, Pathology,
Waste          waste               waste (recognizable body parts  Autopsy
44



Waste           waste               except teeth) removed during  Autopsy
surgery, autopsy or other
procedures
Contaminated    Waste from animals  Animal carcasses, animal body  Veterinary Hospitals
Animal Waste    exposed to infectious  parts, blood, body fluids, and  and Clinics,
agents              bedding known to have been   Research
exposed to infectious agents  Laboratories
Selected        Waste generated by  Swabs, excreta, soiled      Isolation Ward
Isolation Waste  patients who are   dressings, drainage sets, items
isolated to prevent  saturated or dripping with human
the spread of highly  blood, etc. from patients infected
communicable        with highly communicable
diseases            diseases
There are other classifications that either fall under the hazardous waste category
(which in some countries is defined and regulated separately from infectious
waste) and others that may not apply at this time but may descrbe biomedical
waste streams in the future. The additional classifications are shown in Table 111.
At present in Grenada, pharmaceutical and hazardous chemical wastes seem to
be a concem.
Table 111. Additional Waste Categories (Classification 11)
Waste Category    Description         Examples                    Where Found
Pharmaceutical    Discarded items    Expired, condemned, or       Pharmacy
Waste             containing         contaminated pharmaceutical
pharmaceuticals    products
Chemotherapeutic  Waste containing   Chlorambucil, Daunomycin,    Cancer Therapy
Waste             cytotoxic,          Melphalan, Mitomycin C,
genotoxic, or other  Uracil mustard, Streptozotocin,
hazardous          Cyclophosphamide, etc.
antineoplastic drugs
Low-level         Waste containing   Pipettes, vials, syringes,   Nuclear Medicine,
Radioactive       radioactive        needles, gloves, absorbents,  Clinical and
Waste             substances          etc. contaminated with      Research
radionuclides               Laboratories
Other Hazardous   Waste that exhibit  Xylene, methanol, Formalin  Nursing Stations,
Chemical Waste    hazardous          (formaldehyde solution),     Pathology,
characteristics    trichloroethylene, sulfuric acid,  Autopsy, Dialysis,
(corrosive, ignitable,  glutaraldehyde, mercury from  Radiology,
chemically reactive,  broken thermometers, spent  Laboratory,
toxic) in addition to  batteries, cleaning solvents,  Facility
wastes already     degreasers, potassium        Engineering &
classified above   cyanide, asbestos, PCBs, etc.  Maintenance,
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _F uneral   H om es
45



F[IRSTDR, I) o ncit                    .1 'i.dit  Uirnnedi":'/l lj'.a& ivlonetgenloll hv ,Iick'v
I  I                     I Funeral Homes
5.    Waste Minimization
It is recommended that all health-care facilities institute a waste minimization
programme. Waste minimization is the reduction, to the extent possible, of waste
that is destined for ultimate disposal. Potential benefits of minimization include:
environmental protection, enhanced occupational safety and health, cost
reductions, reduced liability, and improved community relations.
The following are basic techniques of waste minimization: source reduction
(including material substitution, process changes, and good practices), resource
recovery and recycling, and composting.  Some basic concepts of waste
minimization and recommended resources are provided in Appendix A3.
6.    Labeling, Colour Coding, and Signage
Every container for infectious medical waste must have the intemational
biohazard symbol in a contrasting colour painted or affixed to the container as
shown in Figure 41. (Note: The dot in the middle is not part of the symbol; it is
used to center the marking if needed.)
Figure 41. International Biohazard Symbol
In addition to the symbol, one of the following warning signs should be painted or
marked on the container, whichever is appropriate:
*"Biohazard"
*"Sharps" or 'Biohazard" (for sharps containers)
The followVing colour-coding is recommended:
Table IV. Colour Coding
TYPE OF WASTE             COLOUR OF BAG OR CONTAINER
Potentially Infectious Waste  RED
46



FIRTV- D)R.1f: 1FT. rDOn clof;            .1Ud if c3ih'1)necft1. iJd :;14(i AIanagmic'171 /!ilWY
Sharps                      RED
Washable Contaminated Linen  CLEAR (TRANSLUCENT)
Chemical, Pharmaceutical, or  YELLOW
Chemotherapeutic Waste
Regular garbage             BLACK
Signage in the form of posters displayed in public areas is helpful, not just as a
reminder to health care staff, but also to inform patients and the public about the
facility's waste management system. A sample poster is shown in Appendix A4.
7.     Waste Collection
Potentially infectious waste should be segregated in clearly marked containers
that are appropriate for the type of waste, as shown below.
Table V. Collection Container Specifications
TYPE OF WASTE     SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONTAINER OR BAG
Sharps            - Container should be puncture-resistant, leak-proof on the sides
and bottom, durable, and closable (closure should be secure)
- Container should be labeled and colour-coded
- Container should be designed so that it is easily and safety
determined when the container is nearly full
Non-sharps        - Container should be leak-proof, rigid, durable, labeled, and
infectious waste  colour coded
(solid/semi-solid)  - Plastic bag should be leak-proof; designed to prevent ripping,
tearing, or bursting under normal use; labeled; and colour coded.
The plastic bag should be placed inside a rigid container
Non-sharps        - Container should be leak-proof and durable
infectious waste  - Container should be designed such that it can be transported
(liquid)          without spillage
Appropriately sized sharps containers should be placed in locations easily
accessible to personnel and as close as possible to the immediate area where
sharps are used. Examples include phlebotomy area, treatment and examination
rooms, nursing stations, operating rooms, emergency rooms, etc. To prevent
injuries, needles should not be recapped nor removed from disposable syringes.
Sharps containers should not be overfilled.
A rigid, puncture-resistant plastic sharps container specifically designed for
needles and syringes is recommended. A reusable container is acceptable as
long as the container and its contents can be disinfected in a treatment
technology and the sharps can be removed safely. A reusable container should
be cleaned on a routine basis.
The Waste Management Officer should regularly monitor sharps collection
containers to ensure that they are not overfilled, that full containers are promptly
removed, that non-sharps waste are not placed in sharps container, that enough
sharps containers are available and located in appropriate locations, and that new
staff members are educated on sharps disposal practices.     The Waste
Management and Infection Control Officers should document any needle-stick
47



[IRSTDRi A 1).f:  Do not quote          ndit O/ B;iiJnedill 11 .Ate t.ii,, , foa ,j,inwn
injuries due to sharps collection, assess why the injury took place, and take steps
to prevent future injuries.
8.    Handling and Transport Within the Facility
Personal protective equipment (PPE) should be wom during any operation where
there is a potential for exposure. PPE included gloves, gowns or aprons, masks,
face shields, and/or safety goggles or glasses, depending on the operation.
Fully enclosed, wheeled carts should be used when transporting waste through
the facility to a storage area or treatment technology. Carts used for potentially
infectious waste should be used only for that purpose. They should be cleaned
and disinfected on a routine basis.
9.    Transport Outside the Facility
Transport of untreated infectious waste outside any health-care facility should be
regulated by the Ministry of Health and the Environment. This should involve a
cradle-to-grave approach to manage and account for biomedical waste and entail
a medical waste tracking system.
The waste generator (hospital or health-care facility) is always responsible for
ensuring that its medical waste reaches the off-site destination facility, such as a
centralized waste treatment centre or landfill. Health centres and other small
facilities should use special care when transporting sharps waste. Small amounts
of sharps waste may be transported in fully enclosed transport pouches
specifically designed for such purposes.
Infectious waste should be transported in leak-proof, fully enclosed containers or
vehicle compartments that are secured when unattended and designed to
prevent spillage or leakage during transport. If the vehicle is used for other waste,
the infectious waste containers or vehicle compartments should be separated by
barriers from the other types of waste. The waste should be labeled with the
biohazard symbol.
The vehicle should have identification markings or placards on the sides and
back. In keeping with intemational standards, the placard should be diamond-
shaped with black inscription on a white background. The upper half of the
diamond-shaped placard should have the intemational biohazard symbol, the
lower half should have the words "INFECTIOUS WASTE" and "IN CASE OF
ACCIDENT IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY PUBLIC HEALTH AUTHORITY" and at the
very bottom, the number "6" which is the intemational hazard identification
number for toxic or infectious hazards.
The transporter or hauler should have contingency plans in the event of spills or
accidents during transport.
10.   Waste Treatment
Waste treatment technologies should achieve a high level of disinfection, while
minimizing adverse impacts on public health, occupational safety, and the
48



FIRSTD RiAF1 Do) ni quote               ,    oIf Bi of edi:! il j.; .t1 cr ,14anqgecme Prdactiu;C,
environment. The technologies should have low air and effluent emissions,
reduce waste volume, incorporate validation methods to ensure disinfection, and
enhance occupational safety while being cost effective. Recommendations on
waste treatment technologies for Grenada will be presented in a separate report
entitled "Review and Recommendation on a Medical Waste Treatment
Technology."
The waste categories listed under Classification II (expired pharmnaceuticals,
chemotherapy waste, low-level radioactive waste, and other hazardous chemical
wastes) are those that require special handling as hazardous waste. The draft
Biomedical Waste Management Plan will provide recommendations for dealing
with those waste streams.
11.   Final Disposal
Liquid blood and body fluids should be discharged directly and carefully into a
sanitary sewer using personal protective equipment (gown, goggles, face shield
or mask). Hands should be washed thoroughly after gloves are removed. The
facility should check to make sure any effluents to the sanitary sewer are within
specified regulatory limits, if any, for wastewater discharges.
In general, treated biomedical waste can be sent along with regular garbage for
final disposal in the engineered landfill. If, for some reason, untreated medical
waste has to be disposed of in the landfill or if treated sharps have not been
destroyed to the point of eliminating needle-stick injury hazards, a special trench
or cell can be used for this purpose under a special arrangement with the Solid
Waste Management Authority. The waste should be placed in appropriate
packaging to prevent breakage durng transport and disposal. Whenever waste
from the hospital is brought to the landfill, the landfill operators should be informed
ahead of time. The landfill operators should designate a special area where the
waste can be buried immediately with minimal handling by landfill workers. If
necessary, unauthorized entry to the area should be prevented by restricting
access, constructing fences, and posting signs such as "BIOHAZARDOUS
WASTE AREA - UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS KEEP OUT'. However, the
preferred method is treatment followed by final disposal.
12.   Summary of Biomedical Waste Management Procedures
Table VI outlines in a simplified form the main recommended procedures for
segregating, transporting, treating, and disposing of biomedical waste. Regular
garbage is included for the purpose of comparison.
Table VI. Summary of Recommended Procedures
waste     Sharps  Cultures &  Blood &  Pathological Waste  Isolation  (Contamin  Regular
Type               Stocks    Body                       Waste    ated    Garbage
Fluids                               Linen)
Examples  Needles,  Cufture  Free-   Tissues,  Placentas,  Swabs,  Bedding  Garbage
Syrnges,  dishes  flowing  Body Parts  Fetuses  Soiled
Blood             Blood                     Dressing
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   T ubes  I _ _ _ I_   I__ _ _   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
colour     Red      Red      Red      Red      Red       Red     Trans-   Black
49



IRSTDR i)kl i7. J1)o re,i CjVOh!                        .1 .T : Df nolt            I ul(n(l  / fl
Code                                  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _    __lucent
Marking       Biohazard   Biohazard    Biohazard   Biohazard     Biohazard    Biohazard   Biohazard      none
Symbol,     Symbol,      Symbol,      Symbol,      Symbol,      Symbol,      Symbol,
'Sharps"    'Biohazard  'Biohazard'  'Biohazard"  'Biohazard"  'Biohazard"  'Biohazard"
Packaging     Puncture-   Plastic Bag  Leak-proof  Plastic Bag  Plastic Bag  Plastic Bag   Plastic or   Plastic
Resistant    in a Rigid  Container    in a Rigid  in a Rigid    in a Rigid  Linen Bag     Bag or
Sharps     Container                 Container    Container    Container                Container
Container I
In-House      Covered      Covered     Covered      Covered      Covered       Covered     Covered     Trolley or
Transport       Caft         Cart        Cart         Cart         Cart         Cart         Cart       cart not
for bio-
medical
waste
Storage       Protected   Protected       N/a       Protected    Protected    Protected      N/a       Regular
Endosure    Endosure,                 Enclosure,   Endosure,    Endosure,                 storage
4 IC or 39               4 OC or 39  4 IC or 39 IF  4 IC or 39                 area
Treatment       TBD         TBD        Discharge      TBD         Burial or     TBD        Wash in       N/a
Into                     TBD                     Hot Water
Sanitary                                           (160 OF or
Sewer                                             88 IC) for
20 minutes
Off-Site       Special     Spedal         N/a        Special      Special      Spedal        N/a         N/a
Transport      Vehide      Vehide                    Vehide       Vehide       Vehide
(untreated
waste)
Off-Site      Sanitation  Sanitation      N/a       Sanitation   Sanitation   Sanitation     N/a       Sanitation
Transport       Truck       Truck                    Truck         Truck        Truck                   Truck
(treated
waste)
Disposal      Sanitary     Sanitary     Sanitary    Sanitary    Interment in   Sanitary      N/a       Recycding
Landfill     Landfill     Sewer       Landfill   Burial Site or  Landfill                  or
Sanitary                              Sanitary
Landfill                              Landfill
N/a=not applicable; TBD=to be determined; 'Recommended practice if storage time is long enough to result in putrid smells from
decaying organic waste (e.g., more than 48 hours)
13.      Contingency Planning
Health-care facilities should develop contingency plans in the event that
biomedical waste is spilled, a worker is injured, or the treatment technology is
down for repairs.
For clearing up spillage of blood, body fluids, chemicals, or other potentially
hazardous substances, personal protection equipment such as gloves and
coveralls are needed. If there is any risk of splashing, eye protectors and masks
should also be worn. The appropriate respirators may be needed if toxic vapors
or dust are involved. Solid residues should be recovered using hand tools such
as shovels. If potentially infectious waste is involved, the floor should be cleaned
and disinfected after most of the waste has been recovered.
50



Fl1?.S7 DR.S1fI 1:,- rIT:  Do n o f' .qAitiii of/> )UkCf'd.JI : t' AI ! nwgemem 1Praae; ieV
All health-care staff should be trained to deal with injuries and exposures. In the
event of an injury, first-aid measures should be applied followed by additional
medical attention as needed. With needle-stick injuries, bleeding of the wound
should be encouraged and the area washed and cleaned thoroughly. Blood or
other tests may be indicated, as well as prophylactic treatment.
Medical monitoring and incident reporting are important parts of contingency
planning. Department heads and other members of the Waste Management
Team should encourage prompt and accurate reporting for the purpose of
ensuring proper medical attention and prophylaxis, and to identify remedial
actions to prevent injuries in the future. Incident reporting should not be seen as
punitive. Medical monitoring programmes are specifically designed to evaluate
the extent of workplace exposure or the effects of known exposures to workers'
health.
If the treatment technology is shut down for repair or periodic maintenance,
facilities should have alternatives, such as long-term storage areas and/or
arrangements with other facilities to transport and treat their biomedical waste at
other sites.
14.   Employee Training and Public Education
Employee training and public education are key components of biomedical waste
management. The objectives of training and education are:
1. To prevent occupational and public exposure to infectious waste and
, related health hazards
2. To foster responsibility among health care workers regarding medical
waste management
3. To create awareness and educate patients and visitors about the risks
related to medical waste and elicit their cooperation in preventing
exposure.
It should be the responsibility of the Waste Management Officer and Infection
Control Officer to ensure that training programmes and annual refresher courses
or seminars take place.
Formal training of all health care personnel on biomedical waste management is
critical for a successful waste management programme. Training can be in the
form of staff workshops, seminars, in-service training, or classroom-type
instruction. Separate training activities can be tailored and targeted to three
different groups in a health care facility:
* Administrative managers and clerical staff
*  Medical doctors, nurses, lab technicians, and other health care
professionals
*  Cleaners, porters, waste handlers, and other auxiliary staff
General employee training programmes should include the following:
51



*  Overview and rationale of the health care facility's policy on waste
management and the objectives of the policy
*  Roles and responsibilities of each staff member in implementing the
policy
*  Risks associated with medical waste, the basic elements of infection, and
the importance of safe practices
*  Waste classification
*  Procedures for waste minimization
*  Procedures for waste segregation including labeling and colour coding
*  Overview of the fate of medical waste after collection: handling, storage,
transport, treatment, and final disposal
*  General cleaning, disinfection, and contingency procedures for spills and
accidents.
*  Reporting procedures for accidental exposures to infectious waste
(needle-sticks, blood splashes, etc.) or improper collection, handling, or
treatment practices.
For health care providers, the following additional precautions should be
emphasized:
*  Special care has to be taken when dealing with sharps waste. Sharps
containers should not be over-filled. Needles should not be manually
removed from syringes.
*  No attempt should be made to remove items from an infectious waste
bag or container. If an infectious waste item is accidentally placed in a
regular garbage bag, the entire mixture should be treated as potentially
infectious waste.
*  Hazardous chemicals, such as mercury and formaldehyde, and
pressurized containers such as aerosol cans, should not be mixed with
potentially infectious waste.
Waste handlers and treatment technology operators should receive specialized
instruction. In addition to the above topics, training programmes for them should
also include:
*  Specific procedures for handling, including identifying the types of waste
in bags and containers through their colours and labels; when to seal
bags; how bags are sealed; how bags are picked up and deposited; how
bags should be canied; procedures for handling sharps containers; and
ergonomic issues.
*  Specific procedures for storage (if needed) and transport of medical
waste, including how to keep waste segregated, loading and unloading
bags, and the proper use of carts
52



MI:S  L)RA 17: Do ri! n ot y           .1AudUii ol 1t,Ifl(!(IiCa~ 1 Jze Blo'ecm cur P11ractictv
*  Safe practices and use of protective equipment such as gloves and
footwear
*  Emergency response to spills and other accidents
* General operating principles of the treatment technology
*  Occupational safety, health, and environmental issues related to the
treatment technology
*  Specific technical procedures for the operation and monitoring of the
treatment technology, including the loading and unloading of waste, start-
up and shut-down procedures, understanding equipment monitoring data,
and the use of controls
*  Emergency response to equipment alarms and failures, including how to
detect abnormal conditions and malfunctions
*  Maintenance procedures related to the treatment technology
*  Removal of residues from the treatment technology
Public education may be done through the placement of posters (see for example
Appendix A4), handouts, and/or verbal instruction to patients and visitors
explaining the facility's colour coding and labeling system. Importantly, patients
and visitors should be instructed: (1) not to place regular garbage into red bags or
containers marked with the intemational biohazard symbol, (2) not to open or
handle any biohazardous waste containers, (3) to keep children away from any
biohazardous waste containers, and (4) to report any spills or accidents involving
a biohazardous waste container immediately and to refrain from touching any of
the spilled contents.
53



APPENDIXKA: Sources of Infonnafion
The following facilities were visited between February 11 to 13, 2002:
1.   Ministry of Health and Environment, Ministerial Complex, St. George's
2.   Solid Waste Management Authority
3.   Gouyave Health Centre, Gouyave
4.   Grand Roy Medical Station, Gouyave
5.   Perseverance Landfill
6.   Old dumpsite
7.   General Hospital, St. George's
8.   LaQua Brothers Crematorium (viewed from the outside)
9.   St. Augustine Medical Services (private hospital), Grand Anse
10. Gittens Agencies (private pharmacy)
11. St. David's Health Centre, Petit Esperance, St. David's
12. Princess Alice Hospital, St. Andrew's
The consultant met with the following individuals in the approximate order shown
below between February 11 to 13, 2002:
1.   Ms. Eunice Sandy-David     Permanent Secretary of Health
2.   Mr. Patrick Moore          Chief Environmental Health Officer
3.   Mr. Allan Edwards          Senior Environmental Health Officer
4.   Mr. Francis Balwant        Senior Environmental Health Officer
5.   Dr. Alister Antoine        Medical Officer of Health and National
Epidemiology
6.   Mr. Selby Da.Breo          Solid Waste Management Authority
Manager
7.   Ms. Joan Lewis             Family Nurse Practitioner, Gouyave
Health Centre
8.   Dr. Albert Fletcher        Dentist, Gouyave Health Centre
9.   Nurse L. Joseph            Grand Roy Medical Station
10. Mr. Alford Nelson           Perseverance Landfill Supervisor
11. Mr. Junior Charles          Machine Operator, Perserverance Landfill
12. Sr. Lyneve Bailey           Department Supervisor and former
Infection Control Coordinator, General
Hospital
13. Ms. Anne Pivott             Histology, General Hospital
14. Ms. Rossamond Roberts       Pathology, General Hospital
15. Ms. Veronica Alexander      Pathology, General Hospital
Al-1



16. Ms. Sonia Edwards            Senior Bacteriologist, General Hospital
17. Ms. June Salhab              Laboratory, General Hospital
18. Ms. Agatha Clarke            Director, Laboratory Services, General
Hospital
18. Ms. Alma Smith               Consultant, Community Health Services,
Ministry of Health
20. Nurse Anne Francis           Chief, Community Health Nurse, Ministry
of Health
21. Ms. Angela Gitten            Health Information Officer, Ministry of
Health
22.  Ms. Agnes Banfield          Surveillance Nurse, Ministry of Health
23. Mr. Benedict Newton          Chief Pharmacist, Ministry of Health
24.  Dr. L.N. Amechi             Managing Director, St. Augustine Medical
Services
25. Sr. Angela Naraine           Nurse, St. Augustine Medical Services
26. Sr. Sandra Rowe              Nurse, St. Augustine Medical Services
27. Mr. Devon Nedd               Laboratory Assistant, St. Augustine
Medical Services
28.  Mr. Leonard Gittens         Inventory Control Manager, Gittens
Agencies
29. Ms. Ester Henry-Fleary*      Administrator, Princess Royale Hospital,
Carriacou
30. Mr. Franklin Gittens         Deputy Director of Hospital Services,
General Hospital
31. Ms. Ruby Despaigne           Engineer, General Hospital
32.  Ms. Rachel Samuel           District Health Nurse, St. David's Health
Centre
33.  Matron Joseph               Princess Alice Hospital
34.  Ms. Stephanie Sandy         Princess Alice Hospital
* interviewed by telephone
* I@                *.    Si -       -   -
The following documents were obtained during and after the site visit:
1.    Waste Management Act of 2001 (Act No. 16 of 2001), Government
Printing Office, St. George's, Grenada
2.     List of Health Centres and Medical Stations in each Parish, provided by
the Ministry of Health
3.     List of Physicians and Dentists in Grenada, provided by the Ministry of
Health
4.     District Medical Officers Yearly Report: January-December 2001,
Epidemiological Unit, Ministry of Health, September 1, 2002
5.     Site Layout and Contour Plan, Perseverance Landfill Site, provided by the
Solid Waste Management Authority, Grenada
6.     Site Layout and Contour Plan, Dumfries Landfill Site, Carriacou, provided
by the Solid Waste Management Authority, Grenada
AX 4



7.    "Health in the Americas 1998," Special Program for Health Analysis, Pan
American Health Organization website.
http:I/l 65.158.1.11 0/enQlish/sha/prflqre.html
8.    "Health Systems and Services Profile: Grenada, Caniacou & Petite
Martinique," 1st Edition, Organization and Management of Health
Systems and Services Program, Division of Health Systems and
Services, Pan American Health Organization, Washington, DC, October
2001.
9.    Maps of Grenada, Carracou, and Petite Martinique
*Im x       ** =; ;   ; i   . i;
About 150 digital photographs were taken during the site visits. Below are brief
descriptions and the number of photographs obtained:
1.    Gouyave Health Centre: waste containers - 10
2.     Gouyave Health Centre: incinerators - 5
3.    Gouyave Health Centre: on-site burial area - 1
4.     Gouyave Health Centre: dental clinic- 2
5.     Grand Roy Medical Station: waste containers - 3
6.     Grand Roy Medical Station: incinerator- 2
7.     Map of SWMA collection zones - 3
8.     Perseverance landfill layout - 4
9.     Dumfries landfill layout - 3
10.   Perseverance Landfill: entrance - 2
11.   Perseverance Landfill: collapse area - 4
12.   Perseverance Landfill: leachate pond - 3
13.   Perseverance Landfill: waste containers - 1
14.   Old Dumpsite: trench - 1
15.   Old Dumpsite: equipment- 1
16.   General Hospital: entrance - 1
17.   General Hospital: new construction - 3
18.   General Hospital: waste containers - 19
19.   General Hospital: policy document - 1
20.    General Hospital: wards - 4
21.    General Hospital: laboratory - 5
22.    General Hospital: sluice room drain - 6
23.   General Hospital: model of new construction - 2
24.   General Hospital: incinerator site - 3
25.    St. Augustine's: entrance - 1
26.    St. Augustine's: waste containers - 5
27.   St. Augustine's: incinerator - 5
28.    Princess Alice Hospital: entrance, parking, van - 5
29.    Princess Alice Hospital: staff - 1
30.    Princess Alice Hospital: poster - 1
31.    Princess Alice Hospital: wards - 1
32.    Princess Alice Hospital: waste containers - 5
33.    Princess Alice Hospital: old incinerator - 2
34.    Princess Alice Hospital: new incinerator- 2
35.    Princess Alice Hospital: open buming - 5



36.   St. David's Health Centre: entrance - 3
37.   St. David's Health Centre: staff - 1
38.   St. David's Health Centre: waste containers - 8
39.   St. David's Health Centre: incinerator- 3
40.   St. David's Health Centre: sewage tank - 1
41.   St. David's Health Centre: dental clinic - 2
42.   St. David's Health Centre: ambulance - 1
43.    Maps of Grenada, Carriacou, Petite Martinique - 10
AX A



A udt of Medical Waste Mnagement Practices
APPENDIX A2: Sample lnstitonal Policy
Purpose: To provide a system for management of biomedical waste in order to
protect patients, staff, and the general public from hazards associated with
biomedical waste
Responsibilities: All staff must be familiar with the policy, guidelines, and
implementation plan and participate in training dealing with biomedical waste
management. Department Heads and Matron should ensure that staff within their
departments are familiar with the policy, guidelines, and plan, and have received
training.  The Waste Management Officer is responsible for day-to-day
implementation and monitoring of biomedical waste management. The Waste
Management Team is responsible for the policy, guidelines and plan.
Policy:
Occupational Safety: Appropriate personal protective equipment must be used
when dealing with biomedical waste. Waste handlers will receive immunization
from viral hepatitis and tetanus.
Waste Minimization: The institution is committed to minimizing the impact of our
waste on the environment. Staff members are responsible for participating in
waste reduction and recycling programmes.
Classification: The following categories of waste are considered biomedical
waste and must be handled cautiously as biohazardous or hazardous waste:
sharps; cultures and stocks; human blood, blood products, and body fluids;
pathological waste; contaminated animal waste; selected isolation waste;
pharmaceutical waste; chemotherapy waste; low-level radioactive waste; and
other hazardous chemical waste.
Segregation:  Biomedical waste will be segregated throughout the facility.
Segregation should take place at or as close as possible to the point where the
waste is generated, and segregation should be maintained during storage and
transport up to the point of treatment.
Labeling and Colour Coding: Every container for infectious biomedical waste
must have the international biohazard symbol in a contrasting colour painted or
affixed to the container, along with the words "Biohazard" or "Sharps" whichever
is appropriate. The following colour coding will be used:
TYPE OF WASTE             COLOUR OF BAG OR CONTAINER
Potentially Infectious Waste  RED
Sharps                    RED
Washable Contaminated Linen  CLEAR (TRANSLUCENT)
Chemical, Pharmaceutical, or  YELLOW
Chemotherapeutic Waste   I
Regular garbage           BLACK
A2-1



Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
Red bags will be available in treatment rooms, surgical suites, emergency room,
nurses' stations, and isolation rooms. Sharps containers will be available in
medical and surgical wards, laboratory or phlebotomy stations, nurses' stations,
treatment rooms, emergency rooms, and other areas easily accessible to
personnel near the area where sharps are used.
Collection, Storage, Transport. and Treatment: The procedures for biomedical
waste management are summarized in the table below.
Training:  Formal training will be provided to all health-care personnel on
biomedical waste management. Staff is required to attend the in-service training
or workshops and refresher course.
Contingency Planning: Copies of the institution's contingency plans for waste
spillage or other emergencies are found in          . Staff should be
familiar with the contingency plan. Spills will be managed by the housekeeping
staff under the supervision of the Waste Management Officer.
Reporting: Any incidents such as biomedical waste spills, needle-stick punctures,
or other injuries associated with biomedical waste should be reported immediately
to the Waste Management Officer (name
A2- 2



Audit of Medical Waste Managemeni Practices
SUMMARY OF BIOMEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES
Waste         Sharps     Cultures &   Blood &       Pathological Waste      Isolation  (Contamin     Regular
Type                      Stocks       Body                                  Waste        ated      Garbage
Fluids                                            Linen)
Examples      Needles,     Culture      Free-      Tissues,    Placentas,    Swabs,      Bedding    Garbage
Syringes,    dishes      flowing    Body Parts    Fetuses       Soiled
Blood                   Blood                                Dressing
Tubes    I
Colour          Red         Red         Red         Red          Red          Red         Clear       Black
Code
Marking      Biohazard   Biohazard    Biohazard   Biohazard    Biohazard    Biohazard   Biohazard     none
Symbol,     Symbol,     Symbol,      Symbol,      Symbol,     Symbol,      Symbol,
"Sharps"   'Biohazard  'Biohazard"  *Biohazard-  "Biohazard"  *Biohazard"  *Biohazard"
Packaging    Puncture-   Plastic Bag  Leak-proof  Plastic Bag  Plastic Bag  Plastic Bag  Plastic or  Plastic
Resistant   in a Rigid  Container    in a Rigid  in a Rigid   in a Rigid  Linen Bag     Bag or
Sharps     Container                Container   Container    Container               Container
Container I
In-House      Covered     Covered     Covered      Covered     Covered      Covered      Covered    Trolley or
Transport       Cart        Cart        Cart        Cart         Cart         Cart         Cart      cart not
used for
biomed-
ical waste
Storage       Protected   Protected     N/a       Protected    Protected    Protected      N/a       Regular
Endosure    Enclosure,              Endosure,    Enclosure,   Enclosure,                storage
4Cor39                 4Cor39     4Cor39F     4Cor39                    area
OF *                    OF ^                      OF ^
Treatment     (descnbe    (describe   Discharge   (describe     Burial or   (describe    Wash in       N/a
treatment   treatment      Into     treatment    (describe    treatment    Hot Water
technology)    tech)      Sanitary     tech)      treatment   technology)   (160 OF or
Sewer                  technology)               88 OC) for
20 minutes
Off-Site      Special      Special      N/a        Special      Special      Special       N/a         N/a
Transport     Vehide       Vehicle                 Vehicle      Vehicle      Vehicle
(untreated
waste).
Off-Site     Sanitation   Sanitation    N/a       Sanitation   Sanitation   Sanitation     N/a      Sanitation
Transport      Truck       Truck                    Truck        Truck        Truck                   Truck
(treated
waste)
Disposal      Sanitary    Sanitary    Sanitary     Sanitary   Interment in   Sanitary      N/a      Recyding
Landfill    Landfill     Sewer       Landfill  Burial Site or  Landfill                  or
Sanitary                             Sanitary
Landfill                             Landfill
*If storage time is long enough to result in putnd smells from decaying organic waste
A2- 3



Audit of Medical Waste Mnagemeni Practices
APPENDIXA3: Waste Minimization
Waste minimization is the reduction, to the greatest extent possible, of waste that
is destined for ultimate disposal, by means of reuse, recycling, and other
programmes. The potential benefits of waste minimization are: environmental
protection, enhanced occupational safety and health, cost reductions, reduced
liability, regulatory compliance, and improved community relations. The following
is the recommended hierarchy of waste minimization techniques in order of
decreasing preference:
1. Segregation - making sure waste items are in the appropriate container.
Staff training is essential to keep regulated medical waste, hazardous
waste such as mercury, low-level radioactive waste, and regular trash
separated from each other.
2. Source reduction - minimizing or eliminating the generation of waste at
the source itself; source reduction should have a higher priority than
recycling or reuse. Users, waste managers, and product standardization
committees should be aware of what waste is generated by the products
they buy. Source reduction requires the involvement of purchasing staff.
Steps should be taken to reduce at the source regulated medical waste,
hazardous waste, low-level radioactive waste, as well as regular trash.
Some specific source reduction techniques include:
a. Material elimination, change or product substitution, e.g.,
substituting a non-toxic biodegradable cleaner for a cleaner that
generates hazardous waste; employing multiple-use instead of
single-use products; using short-lived radionuclides instead of
radium-226 needles in cancer treatment
b. Technology or process change, e.g., using non-mercury-
containing devices instead of mercury thermometers or mercury
switches; using ultrasonic or steam cleaning instead of chemical-
based cleaners
c. Good operating practice, e.g., improving inventory control;
covering disinfecting solution trays to prevent evaporative losses;
using the minimum formulation recommended for an application
d. Preferential purchasing such as selecting vendors with reduced
packaging
3. Resource recovery and recycling - recovery and reuse of materials
from the waste stream. Some specific examples include:
a. Recycling newspapers, packaging material, office paper, glass,
aluminum cans, construction debris, and other recyclables
b. Purchasing products made of post-consumer recycled material
c. Composting organic food waste
A3-1



Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
d. Recovering silver from photographic chemicals
4. Treatment - treatment to remove and concentrate waste, preferably in
process rather than end-of-pipe treatment. An example might be the use
of filters and traps to remove mercury from wastewater.
5. Proper Disposal - when all possible waste minimization options have
been exhausted, the remaining waste should be disposed in the method
with the least environmental impact.
The commitment of top management, active involvement of individuals from
different departments, communication, and educational programmes are
essential to a successful waste minimization programme.
APPROACHES TO WASTE MINIMIZATION
There are four basic stages in the development of a waste minimization
programme.   These are: planning and organization, assessment, feasibility
analysis, and implementation.
The initial stage of planning and organization entails getting healthcare
management to be committed to waste minimization (reflected in a formal policy
statement), setting overall goals, and staffing a task force to get key personnel
from affected departments involved.
The assessment phase begins with the collection of data regarding waste
streams, processes and operations which are sources of these wastes, types of
practices and process control, waste analysis, information on input materials, and
economic information. A medical waste analysis (described below) is a valuable
tool for the assessment phase. Flow diagrams and material balances are useful
in identifying sources and attempting to quantify losses or emissions. It may be
necessary to prioritize waste streams based on quantity, toxicity, environmental
impact, potential liability, regulations, cost, and other factors.
An assessment team of selected staff people with the assistance of outside
consultants should review the data, inspect specific areas of waste generation,
come up with waste minimization altematives, and screen and select options for
study. With regards to municipal solid waste, the assessment team needs to
determine the recyclability of materials.
In the feasibility analysis phase, a technical and economic evaluation is
conducted of the selected options. Among the criteria for technical evaluation are
worker safety, maintaining quality of product or service, compatibility with existing
operating procedures and work schedules, minimal disruption to install a new
system or process, space availability, etc. The economic evaluation uses
standard measures of comparative analysis such as payback period, return on
investment, and net present value.
The final phase is implementation. This entails obtaining funding, education and
communications programmes, installing new equipment or initiating new
procedures, and evaluating the performance.  A demonstration may be
A3-2



Audit of Medical Waste Mawgement Practices
necessary to evaluate an option before final installation.  Education and
communications programmes are essential. They must be designed to reach out
to the entire staff, tap existing channels of education, provide education on a
continuing basis especially for new staff, and respond to feedback from
employees.
There are various measures to determine the effectiveness of waste
minimization. The initial method is to simply compare recorded quantities of
waste generated before and after implementation.  However, since waste
generation may be dependent on rate of operation, the ratio of waste generation
rate to some measure of rate of operation (such as number of occupied beds per
day) is another way to analyze waste reduction. Another measure is to analyze
the waste minimization project's impact on the institution's cash flow which may
reflect reduced cost for waste management and raw materials. In some
instances, waste reduction may be expressed in terms of the ratio of input
material consumption to rate of operation. These measurements are complicated
by processes or services that generate waste infrequently or intermittently, and
some evaluation methods may be more appropriate to specific units in the facility
rather than the entire facility.
MEDICAL WASTE ANALYSIS
A medical waste analysis or assessment can provide data on the sources of
waste, compositions, generation rates, and waste flow within the facility. Medical
waste  analysis involves  preparation,  data  collection,  analysis,  and
recommendations. Preparation entails defining goals, planning, enlisting the
cooperation of key personnel and department heads, and a preliminary "walk-
through" of the facility. Data can be collected in-house using self-audit fonms and
questionnaires. Another approach is to employ an outside consultant. The need
for representative sampling determines the time period for data collection. Data
collected for a few days provides a snapshot of the waste flow. Collecting data
for two or more weeks requires greater staff effort but it may reveal important
variations during different days of the week. A third approach is to install a
computerized waste tracking system for long-term data collection. A "waste sort"
(separating and weighing components of waste collected during a time period)
provides a more detailed analysis of waste composition and requires personal
protective equipment.
From the data, one establishes the flow of waste and generation rates of every
unit of the facility.  Data on waste composition can be used to evaluate
classification and segregation practices.  Over-classification (treating non-
infectious waste as infectious waste) and lack of segregation (commingling
regular waste with infectious or hazardous waste) add significantly to treatment
and disposal costs. A waste analysis can uncover inefficiencies, estimate the true
costs of waste management, and establish the levels of compliance to policies.
Waste analysis is essential in waste minimization as well as in related goals such
as developing recommendations for cost reduction, improving compliance, and
reducing risk and liability.
A3- 3



Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
SUGGESTED WASTE MINIMIZATION OPTIONS
Some suggested waste minimization methods for different types of waste are
summarized below. The table shows the areas in a hospital where recyclable
solid waste is generated and the types of common recyclables found. The
health-care facility may have to explore and negotiate with firms to accept
materials for reuse and recycling or to help develop markets for recyclables.
Sources and Types of Common Recyclable Waste in a Hospital
Sources               OCC     N    MG     WP     C    CPO    AVM     G   P     P    P     P    P    other
P                  P                        1    2    5     6    P
Shipping/Recvg          x     x            x           x       x                               x      1
Food Service            x                                      x     x    x    x          x           2
Laboratory              x           x      x     x     x                       x    x          x
Patient Care            x     x     x      x     x     x       x     x         x    x
Admin. Offices          x     x     x      x     x     x
Radiology, CT           x                  x     x                   x         x    x                 3
Surgery                 x           x      x     x                   x         x    x     x
Pharmacy                x           x      x           x             x         x
Dialysis                x     x            x     x             x               x
Doctors'Offices               x     x      x     x                             x
Medical Records               x            x     x     x       x
Housekeeping            x                  x                                   x                      4
Facility Mgt            x                  x                   x               x                      5
Public Areas                  x     x                          x     x
Hospital-wide                                                                                         6
Legend: OCC - corrugated cardboard packaging; NP - newspaper, MG - magazines; WP - white office paper CP - coloured
ledger paper, CPO - computer printout paper (greenbar, bluebar); AVM - aluminum and metal beverage, food, and other cans; G -
glass induding dear glass; P1 - PETE plastics (soda bottles); P2 - HDPE (milk jugs, dialysis solutions, food stuffs, cleaning
solutions); P5 - polypropylene (sterile irrigation fluid bottles); P6 - polystyrene (food service and supply packaging); PP -
polystyrene (Styrofoam) packaging peanuts; Other. 1 - stretch wrap; 2 - grease, organic food waste, aerosol cans; 3 - film, silver
recovery; 4 - aerosol cans; 5 - wood, aerosol cans, construction & demolition debris, palettes. 6 - other recyclables found hospital-
wide include durable goods such as fumishings, clipboards, old computer equipment, desks, drapes, mattresses, carpets,
binders, dishware, phone directories, printer cartridges, etc. [Source: An Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategies for
Health Cae Facilities, C.L. Bisson, G. McRae, and H.G. Shaner, American Society for Healthcare Environmental Services
(American Hospital Association), Chicago, Illinois, 1993.]
An extra effort needs to be invested in segregating recyclable from non-recyclable
waste. The facility should develop an internal system for collecting paper, glass,
aluminum, and       other recyclables.       This   may   entail investing    in  recycling
equipment and collection containers. There may be recycling and waste-hauling
companies who could provide recycling services.
In addition to paper, glass, and aluminum recycling, other ideas for recycling
include: identifying markets for plastic waste which comprise a significant
percentage of solid waste from hospitals; recycling or proper disposal of batteries;
special recycling programmes for bulky materials (old mattresses, furniture,
stretchers, etc.); and recycling of construction and demolition waste. There may
be opportunities for recycling of scrap aluminum, wallboard, wood, metal piping,
wiring, etc.
Another major potential for hospitals is composting to recycle organic wastes
such as food, yard, and wood fiber (low-grade paper and boxboard) scraps.
The purchasing departments of healthcare facilities play a major role in "closing
the loop" by seeking out and purchasing products made mostly of postconsumer
recycled material. They can also reduce waste generation by purchasing goods
A3-4



Audia of Medical Waste Management Practices
for their durability and "reprocessability," selecting products with minimal
packaging, and working with supplier to support waste minimization. A product
management approach can identify opportunities for reducing waste through
purchasing, inventory control, changes in packaging, and working with suppliers.
RESOURCES
Many resources are available to assist health care organizations develop an
effective waste minimization programme in their facilities (see box insert). Books
such as Guidebook for Hospital Waste Reduction Planning and Program
Implementation, An Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategies for Health
Care Facilities, and The Waste Not Book provide valuable information and
practical suggestions.
RECOIMMENDED READINGS ON WASTE MIINIMIZATION
Waste minimization model plans and guides including a chemical waste minimization plan, mercury-virtual elimination plan, and guide to
environmentally-preferable purchasing: Hospitals for a Healthy Environment (an American Hospital Association and U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency partnership). (available at www.h2e-online.org)
On-line resources on waste minimization for hospitals and laboratories, Minnesota Technical Assistance Program (MnTAP), University of
Minnesota, School of Public Health, Division of Environmental and Occupational Health. (www.mntap.umn.edu)
Waste Minimization in the Healthcare Industry: A Resource Guide. J. Emmanuel, EPRI, Palo Alto, CA: 1999. TR-1 13841. (EPRI, 3412
Hillview Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94303; 800-313-3774)
Environmental Management in Healthcare Facilities, Edited by K. D. Wagner, C.D. Rounds, and R. Spurgin, W.B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1998. (W.B. Saunders Company, The Curtis Center, Independence Square West, Philadelphia, PA 19106;
800-545-2522; http:l/www.harcourthealth.com/)
Guidebookfor Hospital Waste Reduction Planning and Program Implementation, Glenn McRae and Hollie Gusky Shaner, RN, American
Society for Healthcare Environmental Services (American Hospital Association), Chicago, Illinois, 1996. (AHA Services, Inc., P.O. Box
92683, Chicago, IL 60675-2683; 800-AHA-2626)
An Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategiesfor Health Care Facilities, C.L. Bisson, G. McRae, and H.G. Shaner, American Society
for Healthcare Environmental Services (American Hospital Association), Chicago, Illinois, 1993. . (AHA Services, Inc., P.O. Box 92683,
Chicago, IL 60675-2683; 800-AHA-2626)
The Waste Not Book, Public Affairs Division, Minnesota Hospital Association, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1993. (Minnesota Hospital and
Healthcare Partnership, 2550 W. University Avenue, Suite 350-S, St. Paul, MN 55114-1900; 800-462-5393; www.mhhp.com)
"Facility Pollution Prevention Guide," EPA/600/R-92/088, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Risk Reduction Engineering Laboratory,
Office of Research and Development, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1992. *
"Hospital Pollution Prevention Study," EPA/600/2-91/024, prepared by R. Linett for Department of Veterans Affairs, Washington, DC, and
Risk Reduction Engineering Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, Cincinnati, Ohio, July 1991. *
"Guides to Pollution Prevention: Selected Hospital Waste Streams" (formerly titled "Guide to Waste Minimization in Selected Hospital
Waste Streams"), EPA/625n-90/009, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Risk Reduction Engineering Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio,
June 1990. *
"Waste Minimization Opportunity Assessment Manual," EPA/625/7-88-003, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Hazardous Waste
Engineering Research Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1988. *
(S Contact EPA Publications at 800-490-9198 or check out http://w vwv.epaov/epahomne/publications.htm for EPA reports.)
A3- 5



Audit of Medical Waste Management Praaices
APPENDIX A4 Sample Poster
I HEALTHCARE WASTE |
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM |
BIOMEDICAL WASTE
arlsing from direct patient care
CONTAMINATED LINEN
WLAP MO WilH
CHEMOTHERAPY,
: ;-v -.PHARMACEUTICAL &
._ -_ ._:-___--_--_-_-_-_;_-   CHEMICAL  WASTE
| 610(1K BA6S |            REGULAR TRASH
A4-1



