Report No. PID11249
Project Name                      Grenada-HIV/AIDS Prevention and...
Control
Region                            Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                            HIV/AIDS
Project ID                        GDPE76715
Implementing Agency
Address: Financial Complex, The
Carenage, St. George's, Grenada, W.I.
Contact Person: Mr. Mervin Haynes,
Chief Project Officer, Ministry of
Finance
Tel: (473) 440-2214
Fax: (473) 440-0775
Email: mhgene@hotmail.com
Environment Category              B
Date PID Prepared                 May 23, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date               May 15, 2002
Bank Approval Date                June 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Grenada's HIV/AIDS Problem. HIV was first diagnosed in Grenada in 1984.
Since then, the numbers of infected persons have steadily increased. By
2001, with a population of about 101,000, there had been 216 reported
cases of which 138 were males and 78 females. The prevalence rate is
about 1%. Most were between the ages of 15-44, although since 1994, 7
children were also diagnosed as HIV positive. Of these, about 106 have
died since, leaving 110 persons living with HIV/AIDS today. Among these,
between 7-10 persons are believed to be certifiable AIDS cases, by virtue
of their elevated CD4 counts. Grenada has been detecting about 15-19 new
HIV positive individuals per year since 1999. At present, surveys are
about to begin for establishing a more robust base-line situation as a
basis for refining the HIV/AIDS program in 2002, and identifying the
groups in which infection is concentrated, and are, therefore at higher
risk. The Ministry of Health of Grenada is responsible for policy making,
planning, programming and regulation. It has five key functional areas:
(i) administration, (ii) acute care (hospitals), (iii) mental health; (iv)
community services, and (v) environmental health. These areas are divided
into divisions, units or departments to develop programs and operations.
Health services are provided by public facilities and by a growing private
sector. Public ambulatory health services are delivered through 30
medical stations and six district health centers distributed in the seven
health districts. Public hospital services (up to secondary hospital
care) are provided by a 240 bed general hospital in St. George's, a 60 bed
hospital in St. Andrews and a 40 bed hospital in Carriacou. However, the
two small hospitals have technological and human resources constraints to
effectively deliver secondary care. Other hospital services include a 80
bed psychiatric hospital, a 120 geriatric hospital, and two 16 bed
facilities for substance abuse patients and disabled children
respectively.Grenada officially responded to HIV in 1986 with the



formation of a National AIDS Task Force in the Ministry of Health. Its
main functions were to issue guidelines for physicians on counseling and
to ensure effective preventive procedures, humane treatment of patients,
vigorous epidemic control measures, ongoing epidemiological analyses,
program evaluation and public education. Today, Grenada confronts the
task of establishing a more operational and broader-scoped HIV/AIDS
program, supported with a better financed and staffed management
structure. Moreover, given the rapidly changing state of knowledge and
practices, program management systems need to be able to adapt to evolving
needs with flexibility. To respond to the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic, the
GOG is adopting a strategy that is consistent with the guidelines
established in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control APL for
the Caribbean Region. It gives equal importance to prevention and
treatment and care. The strategy is to change the general social
environment regarding safe sexual practices, as well as the acceptance of
PLWAs, and to target the information and clinical needs of vulnerable
groups and individuals. While led by the public sector, the strategy
would be to involve wide participation of civil society through the NGO,
FBO, and the CBO communities. Progressively, the treatment options will
include the public provision of ART. Grenada's strategic plan of action
will implement four sets of interventions:a) promotion and behavior change
through legislative reform, advocacy of rights of PLWAs, and modification
of behavior of individuals in vulnerable groups;b) prevention and control
through clinical means and condom distribution;c) access to care and
support through improved treatment options including ART and home care;
and d) response management including introducing sustainable and
multi-sectoral management arrangements, clinical and epidemiological
surveillance and research.
2. Objectives
The Government has decided to develop a HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
Project to be funded under the Multi-Country APL for the Caribbean Region,
with the following objectives:a) Reducing the morbidity and mortality
attributed to HIV/AIDS;b) Improving the quality of life for Persons Living
with HIV/AIDS (PLWAs); and c) Developing a sustainable organizational and
institutional framework for managing the HIV/AIDS epidemic over the longer
term.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The most important value of World Bank involvement in supporting this
project would be its contributions to policy consolidation on HIV/AIDS in
Grenada, improved management of prevention activities, and technical
expertise for ensuring appropriate scaling up of ART. The World Bank's
support for this project would assist Grenada to effectively establish an
operational multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS program.
4. Description
Project activities target the whole population, with particular emphasis
on high-risk groups such as HIV-infected pregnant women, children born
from HIV/AIDS infected mothers, adolescents, sex workers,
men-having-sex-with-men (MSM), persons with sexually transmitted
infections (STIs), uniformed personnel, and hotel and tourism workers.
About 359 of the population lives in St. George (the capital), and the
remainder can be reached within 15 minutes to one hour by road. This
population distribution in a small country makes less difficult to reach
- 2 -



target groups. The activities selected for project support have been
grouped into four components:Component 1: Promotion and Behavior Change
(US$1.41 million; Bank financing US$1.38 million)
The project would finance the technical assistance of legal experts,
advocacy NGOs and PLWAs to identify areas of systematic discrimination and
the perceived denial of rights against PLWAs to promote fair treatment and
introduce legislation prohibiting discrimination and human rights denial.
Other advocacy activities would include learning to live with HIV/AIDS
persons, calling upon private and public celebrities to support HIV/AIDS
prevention campaigns, and human rights protection. Special population
groups would be targeted according to risk of infection, for promoting
behavior change leading to healthy and safe sex practices. Ministries and
other agencies would carry out identification of these vulnerable groups
and formulate and implement action plans. Activities on HIV/AIDS
behavioral changes and promotion of safe sex practices by different line
Ministries would be part of a multi-sectoral, annual work
program.Component 2: Prevention and Control (US$2.0 million; Bank
financing US$1.79 million)This component would support clinical preventive
interventions for reducing and controlling HIV-AIDS: clinical management
of STIs, prevention of MTCT, tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis and treatment,
and Blood Bank and laboratories control. These activities would be
complemented with specific IEC activities developed under the first
component. The project would support the creation of the National
Infectious Disease Unit (NIDU) within the MOH with the mission of reducing
the burden of serious infectious diseases and arrest the progress of
selected diseases, which threaten public health. Among the preventive
activities related with HIV/AIDS, NIDU would undertake: (i) screening for
HIV; (ii) condom distribution; (iii) voluntary counseling and testing;
(iv) strengthening of the STI program; (v) strengthening the national
tuberculosis control program (NTCP); and (vi) developing the HIV MTCT
prevention program.Component 3: Access to Treatment and Care (US$ 0.91
million; Bank financing US$ 0.80 million)The project would support
upgrading current services available for providing care for persons living
with AIDS, and for treatment, including the introduction of triple ART.
Priority actions that would be met before initiating project ART financing
would include: (i) strengthening laboratory capacity to diagnose HIV and
opportunistic infections; (ii) development/adaptation of clinical
protocols, and training of health personnel; (iii) pharmacy strengthening
in order to provide a supportive environment for the utilization of ART;
(iv) strengthening Infrastructure for Community Health Services, including
upgrading polyclinics for counseling and testing; and (v) expanding the
infrastructure and capacity for OI treatment and management of ART.The
project would finance development of manuals, training of health staff on
counseling of patient's families, understanding the meaning of CD4 count
and viral load results, basic clinical equipment for patient follow up at
home, and home patient care. Specific family education materials for home
care would also be financed. The care package will be available to people
who are registered with the program and should send a strong message that
it is advantageous to the PLWA to be reported to the program and to keep
links with it.Component 4: Institutional Development, Management and
Surveillance (US$2.38 million; Bank financing US$1.43 million)The project
would support the establishment and operation of the National HIV/AIDS
Action Council (NAAC) whose mandate would be to provide policy guidance
and leadership to the multi-sectoral program. The project would provide
resources for the installation of a Surveillance System. This would
- 3 -



include system design, adaptation of available software, and procurement
of hardware, installation, provision of information technology (IT)
support, and the training for practitioners, laboratory staff and MOH
researchers required to use the system. Project resources would finance
the requisite consultant services, physical infrastructure, goods and
training services required to establish the system, and contribute to
operating costs. The project would also finance periodic surveys of
knowledge, attitudes and behavior, (second generation of surveillance) to
support the targeting of messages for the population as a whole, and of
specific vulnerable groups. Specific research issues on HIV/AIDS
epidemiology, behavioral changes, clinical and community management of
HIV/AIDS and cost effectiveness of interventions would be identified, and
research proposals would be assessed for financing.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $1.34
IBRD                     $2.92
IDA                      $2.92
Total Project Cost       $7.17
6. Implementation
Implementation period: 5 yearsBased on the institutional capacity
assessment made during preparation, the project would introduce an
institutional and management structure that would permit the widest
participation of stakeholder groups in the setting of HIV/AIDS policy and
the parameters of Government's strategic response, and would elevate
public accountability for results. Implementation would address staff
shortages in areas of technical capacity as well as financial and
administrative management through the sharing of functions with other
agencies. It would also recruit internationally selected specialized
staff not yet available in Grenada in areas of overall HIV/AIDS
multi-sectoral program management and management of communications for
behavior change.
7. Sustainability
Achieving sustainability would be an outcome of the project, through the
development and mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS prevention and control actions
within the regular work programs of relevant government agencies. This
would be re-enforced through the GOG budget process, the advice of the
NAAC, and the participation of the Ministry of Finance on financial and
administrative matters of the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project adapts design features that underpin the Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program, and have been successful in other
countries (summarized in Annex 4). These include the following:a)
demonstrating a high level of government commitment and providing clear
national leadership for a project;b) building collaboration networks with
NGOs and community groups as a complement to public sector agencies;c)
deconcentrating the initiatives for efforts to address the epidemic;d)
including the focus on treatment and care as a continuum in the project;e)
providing focus on behavior change of specific groups practicing risky
life-styles as a key element of prevention and control; andf) adopting
implementation measures that provide flexibility and responsiveness to the
- 4 -



epidemic as it evolves.The proposed project also adapts lessons from the
previous experience with the National Task Force and AIDS Program, in that
it would create an advisory body - the National HIV/AIDS Council with
direct involvement in project implementation and would be reporting to the
Cabinet to ensure a stronger institutional structure.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         Category B.  See Annex on Environmental aspects
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Patricio V. Marquez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-0163
Fax:   (202) 522-1201
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 31, 2002.
- 5 -



