Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24174-GRD
flfl fl y.-r A.-   . .f  A T** A T  nrr-IT Tl IrVk T'
rI¶xJrA.. l ArrK&i;t1LF AJWU1VLtN l
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.04 MILLION
aJS$3$ 0 MTTL.ION L,OAN & SflR2A4 MTLLION CREDIFT
GRENADA
FOR A
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
iJuly 1, 2002
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 05/15/2002)
Ciirrenav I Tnit = OFCTD Dlnllar (OEC)DSS)
OECDS$2.68= US$1.0
FISCAL YEAR
Tu.1. 1 = T.- 'In
J~ uRy  A  .5 I&L ~Xv  '.
A            - -a   A
AIDS         Acquired iiimune DefLiciency Syndrome
APL          Adaptable Program Lending
ARV          Anti-Retro Viral Drugs
ART          Anti-Retro Viral Therapy
AZT          Azido-Deoxy Thymidine
CAREC        Caribbean Epidemiology Center
CARICOM      Caribbean Community and Common Market
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBO          Community-Based Organizations
CRN+         Caribbean Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS
CSW          Commercial Sex Workers
DALY         Disability Adjusted-Life Expectancy
EU           European Union
ERDMP        Emergency Recovery and Disaster Mitigation Program
ELISA        Enzyme Linked Immune Sorbent Assay
FBO          Faith-Based Organizations
FMR          Financial Monitoring Reports
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOG          Government of Grenada
RAART        Highly-Active Anti Retroviral Therapy
HIV          Human Immune-Deficiency Virus
TR1Rfn       TnternRtionnq1 Rnk fnr Recnnst-uction and Develonment
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
mA           Tn$Dtern§arnal nqlpuv.1grn .ient A cinahtin
IDU          Injecting Drug Users
C~~~~iIt toulatPJn, LAcaAtion,* znd. Corn.muniUtfl1t*
If           Information Technology
IV            L11,V-lve u "I U sr, lJVb
KAP          Knowledge, Attitudes, Practices Surveys
DFPD         Ministry of Finance, P;lanniing, and Development
MIS          Management Information System
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH          Ministry of Health
MSM          Men Who Have Sex With Men
MTCT         Mother to Child Transmission
NAC          National AIDS Council
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NAP          National AIDS Program
NE)CU        National Infectious Disease Control Unit
NGO          Non-Governmental Organizations
OECS         Organization of Eastern Caribbean States



1            C)npportunnt;c iTnfections
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
P ^O         Pa. a Ir... --an LY.- Oraization
PCR          Protease Chain Reaction
rruject Coord.natior. UnIL WILIItin Ulh LvLr
PLWA         Persons Living with HIV/AIDS
SBD          Suuidard Bidding Documents
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
ST-I         Sexually Transmitted infections
TB           Tuberculosis
UINAIDS      United Nations AIDS Program
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        US Agency for International Development
UWI          University of the West Indies
VCT          Voluntaiy Counseling and Testing
WB           World Bank
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President:            David De Ferranti
Cnonntrv ManAaer//Directnr-  OrmnliR Ka1ant7nnnnp1u
Sector Director:           Ana-Maria Arriagada
Sector Manager:            Evangeline lavier
Sector Leader:             William Experton
'T, era. Leader            Pofr;cio Mquez.a'






G-rren.ada:. U1II/ MIMSQ Pre-.ent.lD        and Cfontarol DPAroject
CO-NT ENTS
A. Project Development Objective .............................................................2
1.  Project development objective .............................................................2
2.   Key performance indicators .............................................................2
B. Strategic Context .............................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................. 4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ........................................9
C. Project Description Summary ............................................................                  10
1. Project components ............................................................                      10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the proiect .               ............................................ 14
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................          14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                 ......................................... 14
D. Project Rationale ............................................................                            18
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................ .1 8
2. Maior related proiects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............. 18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .......................................................... 19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                             ................................... 19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................   19
E. Summary Project Analysis ............................................................                     20
1. Economic ............................................................                                20
2Finanrnil-- 1                                                                                         70
2~~~.       Fnnil.............................................................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20. . . .. . . .. . . .
3. Technical ............................................................                               21
I nctilhit-innia                                                                                       1
4 Tn^eifi wfin..       .. ... .. ... .. ... .. .................... ........................................................... 2 1
5. Environmental ....................                                                                   23
6.  So-a . ............................................................................. 24
7. Participatory approach .....................                                                         26
8i. Checlisj o,LftB poU1licies ..........2
* bJULUIU"UUU.IL     UUU X,JAD
1. SubL&  1U1    L. Viai .............................                                                  27
2. Critical risks.8 ....................... 
G. M       ain Loan Conditions .......................                                                       28
r    n   -        r - ---   --  V-- -                                                                         fl---- 
im. neaduinea ior implementatioi .......................                                                    29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                                     29



Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
A --- 2.     Dae+.,;1A  D-r-i
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Anneux 4.     JeneitUJLL MU C-ost ^%WY1 O&ssSUmi&Uj
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Aiinex O.     roUUUremeui  dUU rFiUnUaia MViiar,agemeUriL ulIugemvuvL
Annex 7.      Management Organization Chart
Annex 8.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.      Documents in Project File
Annex 10.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.     Country at a Glance
Map IBRD 20301



Grenada
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Project Annraisal Document
_Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Caribbean Country Management Unit
f Date: July 1, 2002                                 Team Leader: Patricio Marquez
Cnuntrv ManaverMl)irector: Orsalia Kalantzonoulos   Sector Manaver/Director: Ana Maria Arriagada
Project ID: P076715                                 Sector: HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan/Credit  Theme(s): HealtbfNutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [x ] Yes    [   No
Program Financing Data
APL   |        Indicative Financing Plan         Estimated Implementation   Borrower
l________   ________  ___ ____   ________  _______   Period   (B ank  FY )
IBRD            1 Others     Total    Commitment      C
US$__    ___        US$ m     US$ m        Date        Closing Date
|APLI 
Loan/    |     3.uujU   49.7 U    30A |      O4 _                    0:/3:2007  _                       l
oia;     ~3.00               3.04__    6.04
For Loans/Credits/Others: 
--an C    IArreney: eUn.te S tes  hl2r
Total US$ 6.04 million
Amount of Loan: (US$) 3.0 mnillion                Amount of Credit: SDR 2.4 million (equivalent to US$ 3.04
million
Proposed terms:      Fixed Spread, LIBOR-based    Proposed terms:      Standard IDA terms
Grace period (years):              5              Years to maturity:   35
Years to maturity:                15
Commitment fee:                  0.85% first 4 years,
0.75% there after
Service charge:
Front-end fee on Bank loan:       1.0%
Fmancing pian tuonaJ.
Source         _____       _  _Local                                          Foreign             _
n 0A.40                               1.18
~~Juv~~~~t1uH~~~~~III.                        u~~~~...tv         VJ.,o              11
IBRD                                                          1.0               2.0                3.0
TnA 0.99                                                                        2.05                  4 AA
Total:                                                        2.39              4.83               7.22
BIorrower: Government of Grenada
Responsible agency: Office of the Prime Minister                                                         L
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                                _________ A
I I  at_2 ib            2003      _2004           _2005__ 20                 2007__l
Annual             0.67         1.95          1.75         1.09         0.58
Cumulative          0.67          2.62         4.37          5.46         6.04
Project implementation period: August 1, 2002-December 31, 2006
Expected effectiveness date: August 1, 2002             Expected closing date: June 30, 2007
Implementing agency: Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Health
Contact person:                 The Hon. Dr. Clarice Modeste-Curwenl
lAddress:                        Ministry of Health, Tanteen, St. George's, Grenada
Tel: (473) 440-3485             Fax: (473) 444-9000              E-mail:



A         Y%_-  -      -
A%. I UJec DLeVVIe:UJIop  Uen:OJeUVe
1. Proiect develonment obiective (see Annex 1)
Grenada experienced a significant increase in the rate of Human Immune-Deficiency Virus (HIV)
-  A  .1--  _   , -  I  -  A                        -       fY..r TT ITA  TsCl\ -
infection ana uie numoer o  ertinfable Acquired iimmune Diciiency aynurome kiru v/ItDS) cases since
the mid-1980s. By 2000, research and experience in the Caribbean and world-wide were providing in
information and guidance on the scaie, causes and costs of tne epidemic, as well as actions to prevent and
control its spread. A high level of political commitment and multi-sectoral partnerships beyond the health
sector are main conditioning factors for success. The Caribbean Conference on HiV/ALDS held in
Barbados in September 2000, was attended by several heads of government and health ministers from the
region. At the Conference, all governments pledged to scale up their national HIV/AIDS prevention and
control programs, following a set of regionally agreed guidelines and priorities for action. The World
Bank has contributed to this effort by approving in June 2001, the US$155.0 million Multi-Country
HIlV/AIDS Prevention and Control Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for the Caribbean. This project is
part of the second stage of the APL implementation.
Grenada is now prepared to improve its health system and the multi-sectoral participation to adequately
scale up its efforts to prevent and control the epidemic at the national level. The Government of Grenada
(GOG) has decided to develop an HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project to be funded under the
Multi-Country APL for the Caribbean Region, with the following obiectives:
a) Curbing the snread of the HIV/AIDS enidemic:
h) Reducing the morhiditv and mortality attrihuted to RTV/AIDS:
c) Improving the qunlitv of life for Persons Living with lIVlY/AS (PL ..WAs); and
d) DeVe oping a su s.*aon-alb oa.  ol-n 1r.A i.n ct; f.tuo.aI f,.om atixwr for mano ran .we a Ti ITJIA 14TD
epidemic over the longer term.
2. Kev performance indicators (see Annex 1)
During the 5-year project, the GOG would monitor progress in arresting the spread of FHV and improving
treatment and care on three levels, relative to 2002 as a base year:
Outcomes (monitored every 2 years)
a) Number of reported cases of positive liV infection
b) Mortality rates attributed to AIDS
c) Level of discrimination and receptivity of PLWAs in public and workplaces, and care givers
d) National response management established and maintained, and HIV/AIDS program participation by
mnllti_QPrtnral nartners and agencies mainstreamed
O3tpbnzi tAgdending nn eta .i4:a1 a oiwalahilvhit mnniftnrPA ann nal.y
a.% OL_ RAalc- .-A famnln-     -I.. ,ar,~A -ncmnn __AnnS -n,.-olV
a) %v I'xzlesan fe%AA..alesa -5 yjvaa- ml" us...g condom...s v5.sAla t
b) Reported age of first sexual contact in males and females (% in 2002 and 2006)
c) % Males 15+ yetus vld wuit m,,ore uL&u vnese p&FULer ls yea-r
d) % Females IS+ years old with more than one sex partner last year
e) % Anal sex wiui condom
f) % HIV/AIDS transmitted by blood transfusion
g) % Hiv chiidren born from HiV/AIDS mothers
h) Number of persons requesting voluntary testing and counseling
i) % Reported AIDS patients under Anti-Retro Viraml herapy (AKT)



3
i) Length of hospital stays for PLWAs; frequency of opportunistic infections among PLWAs
k) Time at work for HIV/AIDS patients
1) Number of PLWAs served, in appropriate (confidential and welcoming) settings
m) Quality of care norms developed and adopted at care settings
Process indicators (probability of longer term sustainability of institutional performance,
mo,ni'oi~ ann,aIIu')
a) Availakbili of  -.erly rcnnrc. on kyarb   for +rcng we  c     of fun -;Ai... M e ta+0ileA by
LA   A IVaIUffL  J - jtlU - f - 3 - j A f W to&W  I  -Wnt   Va  ICAUQ.O XJU   U aL%,mu.  %LLW tnfLL 0U WI 1Ul  ttjFl.ue  fic, UtCIIatt  Li,
"at risk" groups (surveillance system performance)
LA  A.,        --A  USe  Ol  --   A-    .Y                     _A A+ - 4__  _> .. .. ^TlT _:_ _.arts _
UI) vaiia-UlIIi  Gl U  I Va1 1-UYaZ UulUI1CLLUuIi VU IUUIVIUUGI r>LtI IV. lI y   dIU LV
givers, coded to preserve confidentiality (surveillance system performance)
c) Per,duuic "eouou geU-aL1UII kIUnowiedge, atLtiludes, practices kMvr) survey resuuts  a basis or
response management (monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and management performance)
d) Legislation and reguiatory reform esiabiisned (advocacy effectiveness).
e) Anecdotal evidence and attitudinal surveys of PLWAs and their organizations (advocacy
effectiveness)
f) Timeliness of programming and implementation, cohesion of partnerships, continuing political and
public credibility (institutional performance)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Stratefv (CAS) goal suvported by the vroiect
Document number: 22205-LAC            Date of Latest CAS discussion: June 28, 2001
The rCAS fnr the FAqtmrn Crihhenn S%ih-Reoinn hihhliaht- H41V/AMS nreventinn nnd crntrAl as a key
policy issue and an urgent area of intervention for the Eastern Caribbean nations. In addition, there is a
cronwina rep_gnit:nn amnna the. csubh-reonn's (3vnu.rnmpn+te of th  rnbai Adeuplrmopntal tatvnnhP that
widespread HIV/AIDS infection can be, giving rise to a sense of urgency about tackling the disease as a
mattenr of prm  inuifl w oiofasiwnnn fro... a,-+..na I rn.4nr,.
TDAL+ ".1J" f4_-_. 1[rM71 A 1ThQ                    -- A   _   A ITM
i an *icipti_uU nu  L*SVI 3VXu2%1-%u   LIE. Y L r I tE"J JU LI rVVUUU UUU %..UUrol UI K LJ
Ch.enada wouiu bu 'h vuiouiL, couuy Lu IVtreiVV sLLjJjAIL udUVI LuI. MuslUi-COUrlWryV 1 f1YIllo Preventionr
and Control APL for the Caribbean Region (the first three countries being Dominican Republic,
BaUrubas, adIU JUmaUia). GJrenUduu IhIs liHl1iLU ImLIunLiUI anUU UWULal capiuu reSoUIrxs so hUlL pUulIIc SecL,o
sponsored actions and programs depend substantially on the participation of non-governmental actors,
and on task-snaring oetween units wiminm e public sector to achieve public iterest programs. Tne wGG
has some experience in administering World Bank and donor funded projects (currently, there are two
World Bank-financed projects under implementation), and is implementing them satisfactorily through a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) specifically established within the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Development, (-vIPFU) for this purpose.
Grenada has qualified for participation in the APL, as follows:
a) Preparation of a National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan (see Section B2). Grenada has been a
partner in developing the Caribbean Strategic Plan of Action under the auspices of the Caribbean
Community and Common Market (CARICOM), and has adapted the guidelines of this Plan to its own
circumstances. Grenada's plan is to address issues of advocacy of rights of PLWAs, prevention,
treatment and care with adequate balance, given its needs and priorities. These needs and priorities
have been defined through public dialogue and consensus building among different stakeholders, both
public and private.



4
b) Readiness of National Leadership. Grenada's nolitical leadership is fully committed to prevent and
control the spread of HIV/AIDS. A process of forming a National AIDS Council (NAC) has begun,
as well as the hiring of anational HIV/ATIDS Chairpersnn firom among credible and eynerienced
Grenadians worldwide, as a "national champion". The Government is committed to accept loans and
credits to complement national budgetar,y a11oatirns for Jv1VIATrFZ in ;ts 200)2 hbuAt, ar.d is treatin.g
the project as an equivalent to a "capital project" while preparing to mainstream it progressively
c) ProUgramming for IMLA-brCti-s.ora JL p:eMeULta.io. GrenaUL lda a adotedLU  I VUllcocept of 111U1L1-
sectoral implementation for its HIV/AIDS prevention and control program. Its operational strategy,
presented in the Operations Manuai for the project, identifies a process for expanding the number of
participants, including Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Faith-Based Organizations
(FBUs), Community-Based Organizations (CBOs), as well as an increasing number of line ministries
with independent but coordinated activities. Initial plans already call for the participation of the
Finance, Health, Education and Social Services ministries in the program.
d) Use of Sustainable Business Arrangements. Grenada has centralized the procurement, financial
management and the management of the flow of funds from outside sources in a single, specifically
designated department of government (the PCU at the MFPD). The World Bank has agreed with this
as an efficient and sound arrangement considering Grenada's limited human resources base and size.
However, the MFPD has also developed arrangements that permit the active participation of line
ministries and other "deconcentrated" agencies to play their appropriate roles in the management of
resources. These principles, described in the project's Operations Manual, are being applied to the
project.
e) Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would assist Grenada to develop its case management and
epidemiological surveillance systems, with appropriate hardware, software and training, and in
coordination with the Caribbean Epidemiology Center (CAREC). It would also initiate periodic
Knowledge, Attitudes, Practices surveys (KAP) to track the third generation indicators of the
enidemic according to CAREC recommendations. Base line studies are being financed with the
assistance of CAREC, and consultants financed through a PHRD grant. The project management
structLure provides for regular a9nnual repnrting, analysis and reartion to these findings as nart of the
evolving progranming of project activities. This is considered adequate in Grenada's specific
Cp fc-u1tn(.ces.P
2. Main sector issues and Government stratefv
Health System Overview
Organization and Delivery of Services. The Ministry of Health (MOH) of Grenada is responsible for
policy making, planning, programming and regulation.  It has five key functional areas:  (i)
administration, (ii) acute care (hospitals), (iii) mental health; (iv) community services, and (v)
environmental health. These areas are divided into divisions, units or departments to develop programs
and operations. Health services are provided by public facilities and by a growing private sector. Public
ambulatorv health services are delivered throuyh 30 medical stations and six district health centers
distributed in the seven health districts. Public hospital services (up to secondary hospital care) are
nrovidet hvy a 240-bed general hoqnital in St G'1eorgep'q a 60-hed hosnitf! in St Andrewt aind a 40-bed
hospital in Carriacou. However, the two small hospitals have technological and human resources
COIf&r+ to. e4f.ectivey deliver scopnd&y,w c&-e. Atb0v hnspit,, pevi.p es nclude~ a 80=bedA pscia
hospital, a 120-bed geriatric hospital, and two 16-bed facilities for substance abuse patients and disabled
chil&-u --especively



5
Consultants provide public ambulatory specialized care in pediatrics, ears, nose and throat, and mental
health in district health centers, and the district medical officer refers patients to the General Hospital,
which has long waiting lists and does not provide feedback on referred Datients. Private facilities include
five small acute care hospitals, 13 nursing homes, two maternity units and several medical offices. The
General Hosnital in St- George is eauinned with appronriate medical technologv for secondary care, and
is being refurbished and remodeled to replace an old facility. However, the clinical laboratory is cramped
and there is a need to find space for construntion of a new fanilitvy In general the niuhlic. helth services,
need to improve laboratory capacity for HIV/AIDS and other clinical conditions, as well as the clinical
and managememnt informaation cystepm throughout the network of facBlities in the neur.tr., It also needs
strengthening managerial capacity at the central and local levels. Between 1992 and 2001, the central
a.%1111I1113U aLJJIW IU  ~'jI4I.i.UII It 11 .U1 IAJAJ VW.XU LAI ll' II~IrIV1aL pUD1LIJ1IO IV"%AL&III, IAJ %AAJ.~LAJL"IiULYI   F 11 JU 1..''
and overall sector management.
The MOH has proposed to reorganize the system in order to improve physical facilities, rationalization of
__ uic' s_tooM    -s-__- ce!__  ___  or'nai On   co_mu i  -  - - _-  -,_   __  __*  -   - _-__  __ _- s- __  __ - --A  _  _-___
medical stations, service c;ooruulaLloll, ;ommunity participation, service qualitLy and elicutivernss
improvements, and efficient management. As part of this proposal, a national insurance program is under
consideration with a view to respond to Grenada's heaith needs and financing.
Grenada's WV/AtLJS Problem. HlV was first diagnosed in Grenada in 1984. Since then, the numbers
of infected persons have steadily increased. By 2001, with a population of about 101,000, there had been
216 reported cases of which 138 were males and 78 females. The prevalence rate is about 1%. Most
cases were between the ages of 15-44, although since 1994, 7 children were also diagnosed as HIV
positive. Of these, about 106 have died since, leaving 110 persons living with HIV/AIDS today. Among
these, between 7-10 persons are believed to be certifiable AIDS cases (by virtue of their elevated CD4
counts). Grenada has been detecting about 15-19 new HIV positive individuals per year since 1999. At
present, surveys are about to begin for establishing a more robust base-line as a basis for monitoring the
impact of the project in 2002, and identifying the groups in which infection is concentrated, and are,
therefore at higher risk.
Social and Economic Factors Associated with HIV/AIDS. Surveys and other social indicators reveal
that the sexually active population of Grenada does not usually follow safe sex practices. Results from a
recent survey on HIV and sexual practices in Grenada show that approximately one-third of the people
have their first sexual encounter before the age of fifteen, multiple sex partners is a more common
practice than one lifetime partner, and condoms are reportedly used always by less than 25% of the
sexually active population. An additional situation that encourages sexual activity is the festival time in
Grenada- in narticular the concentration of celebrations from June to August. The mentality at this time is
to relax and engage in activities not usually practiced. Often times, these activities are sexual in nature.
Grenada does not face a serious issue of intravenous drug users (IV). However, it shares a number of
nhal!epnnges wvith nther Carihhen.n nniintr.s needle Qhar;n is pran-tfied s,mnno orngupsn nf npnnle whn are
self-administering tattoos and body piercing which is popular. The media, in its various forms, has raised
onr ..l on,orono ac  n A *l.a nrnnranf af t1,c. ss2V9 nflrCnn Too/;lA rir.nnre ,norns'v;f0 oA.,a,.f;mnfc onA
if,a...a, uvy w '.11~.- die un. t.,tv... ,.t I1_J i_}  aJAOLJ. I t1sV1 IOlfV tl - VT 0-  tn..aais WA V _ R%i_lh.- ..
movies all influence the values and morals of the society, particularly the young. The high level of out-
0f-schol VUI h  n  ihyuhue;poy.e. exawraes Li ik
.T't..~1_  --   -.L  !. .    X1T__1J  A Tr-%Q  r'...-   1L...-   --  -~J   L         .L
i lit uthiles VI past llCt[IiLIUiLiZi 'V'l ,IU t DayJ a ll.-it4 Ua1iipaigiis htave .gIetVdU yVUULib Ubeuse of U.Ue
presumed lack of understanding of the virus and sex, and a lack of supervision by their parents or adult
guardians. Many parents depend on tne education system solely to educate their children on these mauters
because they either feel too uncomfortable or embarrassed to discuss them or feel inadequate to teach
their chiidren the facts. Furthermore, many chiidren, even if they have received the facts, are not properly
advised to ensure that their behaviors are in accordance with the knowledge they have been given. The
Church is one of the most dominant forces in Grenada's society. Its place should be in the forefront with
the issue of HIV. However, a recent survey on HIV and sexual behaviors indicates that only 11% seek



the Church as a source for sexual information. At a publicn f.orum. in 1098, (rPnoAn youths rppat+,'Alu let
the religious sector know that the Church is not addressing their needs for realistic, relevant information
on sex. tUiuoally, C,enada' ML WAs face Issues ofU U10.4MmaLin U1 diat f iudul.er Ui.U-ii VouIn+M.y
testing and counseling, and efforts to address HIV openly.
Gender issues contribute to raising the risk of spreading the FHV infection. Many women find themselves
in circumstances without financial security. in response to their predicament, they decide to trade sexuai
favors for money or other material needs to support themselves and their children.
Moreover, while the promotion of tourism as a primary industry has significantly boosted Grenada's
economy, it has also raised risks of infection.
Issues Requiring Resolution
Response Management. Grenada officially responded to HlV in 1986 with the formation of a National
AIDS Task Force in the MOH. Its main functions were to issue guidelines for physicians on counseling
and to ensure effective preventive procedures, humane treatment of patients, vigorous epidemic control
measures, ongoing epidemiological analyses, program evaluation and public education. Unfortunately,
numerous changes in leadership (mandated to Chief Medical Officers) and membership deprived the Task
Force of clear focus and sense of proactivitv. Several NGO's have since taken on the task of providing
the general public with HIV education. One NGO also distributes condoms, and another provides
psycho-social support to HIIV-infected persons. Schools and churches have been offering I{V education.
These efforts have important gaps because they have been uncoordinated, are confined to small groups in
the general population; and have not been kent abreast of un-to-date information. In 1999 a new initiative
was undertaken to mobilize a multi-sectoral public and private coalition to re-energize HIV/AIDS
nreventA:n and rnntrnl wnrk (see' STAR hidnow')
The Task Force was exapectAed to give direci+on toa Nationa! ADS Progrm  (NAP), intiated in 1986 to
implement the Task Force's guidelines. Although lacking continuous and strong leadership, the Program
slov -A .eAd1      IhiL a i   +  in c.-ea+in  much of i-1ts ov,-A v progrA., hich i.clJW o..Itreac
directly to schools and businesses, efforts to reach the general public through radio and television and, by
Av4r-..U          -4  _-L   A    _         ;    L +:_       U__ no_ me   a 11 04r 4AS_  AA _  A||+__A 
UV,1UJIL UI4i48V1U1PJJLL U'.l UiV VULaJJ.,L UW.L, JA UaI U. I U1 IUVVVWVVl, IIGL VJ LUV1hL ML I Vl S UVUAau%0.
Among the obstacles that have prevented adequate action has been scarce financial support from the
__ -2  1L--- --               1--....I.   'L  T  A " 1 __.._  
%joveruiiuent azu Uinuucient iuLlau reso-urcs. PreseuLLy, uie rNAPr has1 uhree =pUrbons- A u'urse who seives
as Coordinator, a Counselor, and a Health Educator, who has limited funds for outreach activities. As a
result, some of ime education services provided by we NAP nave reached oniy a small part ofi ie rural
areas. This minimal staffing limits the activities that can be planned and implemented.
Today, Grenada confronts the task of establishing a more operational and broader-scoped HIV/AIDS
program, supported with a better financed and staffed management structure. Moreover, given the rapidly
changing state of knowledge and practices, program management systems need to be able to adapt to
evolving needs with flexibility.
Testing and Reporting. Currently, testing and counseling is largely confined to regular clinical
practices. Doctors and nurses from health centers with Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) facilities
have ordered most HIV testing. At the laboratory, the blood is identified by a code known only by the
drawer and the person being tested. This is an effort to try to guarantee anonymity and confidentiality.
Pre-and post-test counseling are supposed to be provided to all persons having blood drawn. The only
exception for this is for people donating blood. The Laboratory in the General Hospital conducts the
initial Enzyme Linked Immune Sorbent Assay (ELISA) test. If the result is positive, a second test is done
on a second sample of blood- and the Western Blot test is done by CAREC for confirmation. Test results
are sent to the doctor who is treating the patient and the Medical Officer of Health. Positive results
rpeuire. the Anr-tnr to fill nout an pniPmminorginl sheet with the nprrsnn's nnme, whinh ic then epnt tn the



7
Medical Officer of Health. All blood donations are tested for IRV unless the circumstances indicate that
a delay could result in the loss of life. There is a charge of US$80 for testing, except for armed forces,
pregnant women; STT patients annd hosnital natientS In three years (1996-1998), the number of 1-V teRts
performed in the General Hospital grew from 1906 up to 2009. The hospital also has the capacity to test
for Syphilis, Gonorrhea, Hepatitis B, Tri:chomnnas and Candida, but does not have testing for rhla..ydia.
According to an evaluation performed by CAREC in 1999, laboratory management and technical
in~actruin1r nantl,- needed a revision to imprniove op-atiolr. systems ar.d pr-ctics.
TlL.e PrVocess o1f  at AAis r :_  +_d te  -+iJ RloJ cfa- --.----.-- -owe   on to f o  s  &-_
aie     i       nr.p1A, U L LkR 1 IpuIed Lv Uv MVULIJUL %VLAjJ1UI%iaL4L10. 1IUW~VVI1, UVVU1r, LV LVal VL VApVULU1,, Lli
unknown number of persons are suspected of seeking testing and treatment out of country, while
.1: _-  U. _..  f'..-       --------  -                P-J. . L   ~ m.   L~...  TAL...--'
contirnuinrg LV IIVe Hi GrervaLI. l,,ls p[erViLb a hidUUn eser-vVUof Ul  for LUse VoI,LUIwmLLy. Delays ir
laboratory reports to the Medical Officer of Health hinder contact tracing, epidemiological analyses and
other studies. Another concern wit inte post-testing process is mat is nas not safeguarded the identities or
persons who test positive for HIV. There are reports of incidents of medical files being openly exposed
with "Hiv" boiiy written for anyone to see. Tnis breach of confidentiality is iisted as one of the main
reasons for not being tested, and sometimes for not seeking follow-up care if one's status is known to be
positive.
Most of the impetus for improving the system is now emerging from epidemiological concerns, which are
frustrated by the lack of robust information on the incidence of H1V among various groups believed to be
at high-risk, and requiring more targeted information on prevention and care. Grenada, however, would
have to address both labomtory management weaknesses and the needs for de-personalized information
for research, and confidential and case-specific information for care and treatment. These issues should
be effectively addressed for Grenada to increase the options of treatment and care for a growing number
of PLWAs.
Counseling, Care and Treatment. Initial counseling for recently diagnosed PLWAs is expected to be
part of the treating physician's and NAP role. Although only some practitioners have had adequate
counseling training, guidelines on counseling are currently available at the MOH. Community health
nurses do counseling during their time spent with HlV-infected patients but they need specific training to
improve this important activity.
Some doctors have been trained to manage treatment for HIV cases. Owing to lack of experience and
limited resources, the ahilitv of nurses and community health and social workers is inadequate to care for
persons with H1V. Currently Grenada does not administer Anti-Retro Viral (ARV) drugs and only treat
some of the related nnnnrhinistiP infectinsn Tuhercuioski (TB) caises -ndo not have facilities for isolatinn
Besides, medical services offered in the rural areas of Grenada do not have the same high standard as
med'ica! serices~ offe'rd ir ,'utcis
A Adressmg fhe ongofir.ga emotinfa! ar.d psychmonsocia! I.ed nof, an T.TT,'=nfontoA nerson is cr.f.;a! - toh.at
person's care. However, Grenada does not have trained counselors to play this role. Because of the
ArIe%lav e  %vV1L.,UUII14U  I-IL Vre  on IAJ,4, uL,X Jin GrnaUa, notL er.ough couelor Lu ave been giver. uat AlLlt LU ai-a
them proficient with HIV/AIDS-specific issues.
A number of agencies are attempting to assist in reducing the social and economic impacts of HIV in
infected miaiviauals, but are only aole Io do so at a mmimal level. Lne iiLmssuy or bocial Services,
Mission of Charity Sisters, and some churches provide support with basic needs of household
maintenance, primarily food. Tlne Ministry of Education provides school supplies to children of infected
parents or guardians. Uniforms and books are usually purchased. Churches offer community-based
support. Home health care is considered to be cost-effective but has not been systematically developed in
Grenada.



Q
('' n--11  (rn A -aA n   n,4   is.tn-c  usnr  a nole a cseont,   o ornnn   -f' TTIIF AT'I A
Oea!!, Gr.enadac does.~. ...4,jLir suboLsJti.aI,1 Osuppo.fto,5A *'flOsfl a3 .fltAAatAt' 1n(n.a55r.1lrs. tL Of Am,'/,j tL
prevention, care and treatment including care protocols, information technology, training, and added
resources to make s   a syste,  .
V-  __   J~ L__  T  'IIYrA     ------ 2 -
Legal Proteciuon. Disc-rimination and exclusion arc fearud oy PL w iAs in Grenadia, anu anecdotal reports
of ostracism circulate. The Grenada Constitution protects citizens from unlawful dismissal from
employment because of illness or disease. However no cases have arisen yet to test the depth of the
legality in situations which involve HIV infected persons. Human rights protections involving housing,
fair treatment in shops and restaurants, and social services have not been tested in law, although there is a
presumption that protections are not sufficiently specific to be enforceable.
Prevention Efforts. Since the first appearance of HIV, the Government has provided public education,
information, and guidance on the epidemic. It continues to do so with the assistance of external agencies
such as CAREC, the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO), U.S.
Agency for International Development (USAID), bilateral agencies and the United Nations AIDS
Program (UNAIDS). Currently there are also non-governmental resources providing assistance for HIV.
The Grenada AIDS Foundation provides psycho-social support to persons infected with HIV and
conducts island-wide forums to educate the general public. The Grenada Planned Parenthood Association
provides education and counseling and distributes condoms as well.  The Agency for Rural
Transformation and the Grenada Community Development Agency offer I{IV education. Some churches
provide H1V education and support, and many schools educate the students about IRV and sexuality
through the Health and Family Life Education Promram.
Communities have welcomed the education services with enthu.siasm and a desire for more= The MOM
and other ministries have been supporting the implementation of NAP activities.
However, the prevention program faces a number of significant challenges. While general information is
o,'ai ohm there is insuff-^-ient ;..- mformation on thne scipr-          --tic-s and behavir f oe1n_tnA gro'up to
assess which targeted interventions have been effective. Grenada has not been able to engage such
plats.+:-n. zs n-  avi. .-s,x+iu -on .-A sex work.ers anfanlo         --os ri s cial r.s.oaoes In
addition, most of the attention paid to prevention has been focused on behavior modification, while
sAl _            wwA_-  w._ l_   I_ Xt 1 _ A _ _  +|||_   _ _   A    _   A    - A_
HISIA;1VULWSl Wl1ULodl pIVSllVV_1L   VllUJltb 11gU VVIIUVll uwviV"u, nouvil 4ab 11LVUJL-v1-wLV-,1u uaubiulbnivn.
Organization and coordination across sectors has been weak owing to unclear mandates and ill-defined
programnimg anid budgeting procedures. Non-Grenadianl UrganUizations have been tie main sounre of
financing the NAP, but the Government has substantially increased budgetary resources for BIV/AIDS in
the past year.
Grenada would require a new organizationai, managerial, and business-practices framework, and an
increase in government resources to scale up the work that has been ongoing with clear evaluation
measures, and to fill the gaps in its multi-sectoral prevention agenda.
Government's Response Strategy
To respond to the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic, the GOG is adopting a strategy that is consistent with
the guidelines established in the Multi-Country HIV/A1DS Prevention and Control APL for the Caribbean
Region. It gives equal importance to prevention and treatment and care. The strategy is to change the
general social environment regarding safe sexual practices, as well as the acceptance of PLWAs, and to
target the information and clinical needs of vulnerable groups and individuals. While led by the public
sector, the strategy would be to involve wide participation of civil society through the NGO, FBO, and
the CBO communities. Progressively, the treatment options will include the public provision of ART.
Grenada's strategic plan of action will implement four sets of interventions:



9
a) nromotion and behavior change through legislative reform, advocacy of rights of PLWAs, and
modification of behavior among individuals in vulnerable groups;
b) prevention And control through clinical me QS and condom dist ibution;
c) access to care and support through improved treatment options including ART and home care; and
MI respons.  rnarn.agement includaEin, intrnAoidingy csusltainabhl  andi muiiti;-QO-tArq1 mnanagement
arrangements, clinical and 'epidemiological surveillance, and research.
These interventions would: (ij raise the public perception and acceptance that HIV/AIDS is a social and
econom-ic '-   and mobilize rmult-sectorl itEerveUtios for . behavioral ch,narage, preven tion, care and
control; (ii) consolidate the view that H1V/AIDS is a treatable and manageable personal and public health
issue, by faacilitating access to treatimenL includiig ART as weii as treatment for oppotunistic infections
(Ols); and (iii) protect the civil and human rights of PLWAs.
The GOG's expanded response to the epidemic has been developing over the past several years through
intensive efforts to mobilize informed opinion that Hvi/AWS is a serious public health hazard. in 1999,
the MOH set a precedent by organizing a multi-sectoral team composed of leaders from various sectors in
the community, to look at the issues related to HIV/AIDS. The Team, called Strategic Team for AilDS
Reduction (STAR), with support from the U.S. Peace Corps, was composed of 25 members, including 10
from leading private sector businesses and associations. The team met over a period of several weeks to
discuss the issues facing the country as a result of the epidemic, and to propose avenues for a response
that would involve multiple sectors working in tandem, and to identify public and community resources
that might be mobilized in the effort.
Since then, the work of STAR has become institutionalized informally through continuing contact
between stakeholders as a "Multi-Sectoral Committee" on HlV/AIDS. Through discussions and
information sharing, the process of building support for a National Strategic Plan has been pursued,
including briefings for government members and public sensitization through such events as World AIDS
Day festivities. The MOH has undertaken detailed planning to address key medical and clinical
problems, related to improving surveillance, epidemiological surveys, behavioral surveys and testing and
improving Mother-to-Child-Transmission (MTCT). The MOH has also drafted the framework of a four-
part plan (see above) that would implement the expanded response and a management proposal for the
National Strategic Plan of Action. The multi-sectoral committee continues to meet and review these plans
and provide guidance to the GOG, including proposing a framework for the management of the project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the pro*ect and strate2Lic choices
Through the proposed project, the GOG would address the issues that have hampered a full response to
HIV/AIDS including:
a) Institutional Capacity and Leadership. Lack of consistent policy and organizational leadership has
limited the GOG's effectiveness in addressing IHIV/AIDS. To date the MOH has assumed a
leadership role. It has attempted to execute its primary responsibilities for clinical care and
epidemiological surveillance, and to coordinate the actions of other institutions.  In spite of
professional commitment and proactive attitude, limited human resources and funding has prevented
the MOH from meeting all of its expectations. Also, its absorptive capacity has been limited because
of insufficient administrative/financial staff. Through the deliberations of the multi-sectoral
committee and senior government officials, it has been largely agreed, therefore that the leadership
and management of a full multi-sectoral response should be confided in the new NAC composed of
multi-sectoral representation and given sufficient authority for policy setting and advise to implement
the Nantional Plan. This body would be accountable to the Cabinet and would draw on the
participation of the PCU of the MFPD as the financial/administrative branch, the MOH for
1n-eadership irl. r-evenion and treatment activities, nand other agencies fnd miniLtTes in areas of
behavior change and advocacy of PLWA rights (see institutional arrangements, below).



10
b) Q..SeI-"an    andA Rcseaph.h  1rvui!pu1anne awtvit:e are hindie'repd hprimp,Q nf limited information
systems and technology. As a strategic matter, a new surveillance and case management system
would eV JIntVIere dU UIr. wUe pUblic s , wis prL i vy IUI IvQIV.e jJVIVIZL'.VO4 beir.g  --o-i -s  p-t-
dictate. Also, selected studies would be undertaken responding to specific operational and
epidemioiogi,ca isu.
c) Access to Care.   iiiV'/AIDS patient management has been very- limited d-ue to constraints m
laboratory facilities and professional training. The project would strengthen care for PLWAs with
specialized inpatient management training for health workers, but in the interest oI quaiity and cosi,
would expand home and community care as a complement. The GOG would also introduce ART at
public cost to provide full access to treatment for its citizens. The concept of care would also be
expanded to address the socio-economic needs of families and children of PLWAs.
d) Credibility of Preventive Actions. Weak laboratory facilities and limited training of health workers
are key constraints to effective preventive and care activities. The project would strengthen the
GOG's capacity in targeting the needs and behavioral changes of groups at higher risk of HIV
infection, using information, education and communication (IEC) more effectively, as well as
condom distribution, surveillance and diagnostic testing techniques, and training of both public health
staff and private care providers in counseling for addressing the different behaviors and lifestyles of
these groups.
e) Oualitv of Life of PLWAs. While imvroving access to care would be critical for raising the quality
of life of PLWAs, cultural and gender issues have to be addressed too. The GOG has decided to
include as nart of the proiect efforts to address the need for legal protection of their human and civil
rights.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Proiect components (see Annex 2-A)
Project activities target the whole population, with particular emphasis on high-risk groups such as
THV/ATD.ZS-in.fected pregn.annt women, children born from HA/AMIS infected motherm- adolescents, sex
workers, Men who have Sex with Men (MSM), uniformed personnel, and hotel and tourism workers.
About 35% of the population lives in St. G-rge (/the rani;.tfl and the rpm2indpr raq hb rn-ahd within 15
minutes to one hour by road. This population distribution in a small country makes less difficult to reach
get--T groups.  nn. ac.ivte sele Ct r -r;o-+ support have been groupedA in.t fo-r nnnompnonets
LWN~ ----- UUJ.IUfUUV*ITT1U.. *tJn         OUy    A la -.H.-l 12-nt51Lt . Y..lT.nnw2.
Component i: Promotuon and Bha-ior Change ( TS$1.41 mi":on; Bank financing US$1.35 miLlion)
a) Advocacy (US$ 0.13 million)
The project would finance the technical assistance of legal experts, advocacy NGOs and PLWAs to
identify areas of systematic discrimination and the perceived denial of rights against PLWAs to promote
fair treatment and introduce measures prohibiting discrimination and human rights denial. Other
advocacy activities would include learninz to live with PLWA, calling upon private and public celebrities
to support H[V/AIDS prevention campaigns, and human rights promotion and protection.
b) Behavior Change (US$ 1.28 million)
Special nr.nulat.:on groups would be tnrgoeted a'reording to rick Af infortiAn- fAr promtinog behavior
change leading to healthy and safe sex practices. Ministries and other agencies would carry out
identification of these        -nahemble goups and form.ulae and implement actifon plans. Wifh CrARC
cooperation, activities on HIV/AIDS behavioral changes and promotion of safe sex practices by different
liriC 1V1IinisU IV WUU1U V, pJJ .L Via muL-LP tVora1, aIr..Ual VVwIk jJIV6aUi.



11
Information Education and Communication (IEC)Q This intervention aims at maintaining people's
awareness of HIV/AIDS risks and protection measures, promoting behavior changes for safe sex practices
and risk reduction. It would be suited to each particular high-risk group and to each particular intervention
requiring a better-informed constituency. Individual and group behavior theories would be carefully
chosen to sunnort IEC interventions.
Publie Outreach and Edieat-on Initiative. This multi-facPted proiect aims at persunding people to
make the attitudinal and lifestyle changes that will help to arrest this epidemic. Cooperation with public
a,nd privrate a gercies, as wevle as with NGsQ XWl be nha  oanr ,r toftpnr.t tao apbi-ve a sociol chanr.g of
this magnitude.
*  A major schools initiative. Every school and every child in the nation would be reached.
Audiovisual presentations would be prepared and children would be engaged in interaucive
sessions, role-playing, among other activities. Essay competitions and EHV quiz competitions
with prizes and other enticing methods would be used.
*  Non-traditional approaches. Meetings to discuss responsible behavior attract people who
are interested in responsible behavior and miss the people who most need them. The general
population would be enticed with innovative methods. ,
*  Mass media campaigns. These would be via traditional methods such as newspaper articles,
radio and television interviews, interactive radio (call-in shows), TV spots and news releases.
*  Special presentatons.  For very special groups such as Cabinet members, and the
Legislature.
The proiect would finance technical assistance, Production of information, education, and communication
materials, audiovisual equipment, and mobilization of personnel to reach target groups with the above-
proposed interventions.
Component 2: Prevention and Control (US$2.01 milioinn Bank finaneing IIS$1.R9 miLlion)
Thin rrrnmnnent wwould support clinical preventive interventionn for ridOuning and iontrAllingr H _vADRs
clinical management of STIs, prevention of MTCT, TB diagnosis and treatment, and blood bank and
1abhnmtnr.ec n,al4h, conntrn1A  These pth,:it.:e wniuldbe hcr.nmninpmPntPfA with ov,pecfrp iPr antivitiue
developed under the first component.
The project would support the creation of the National Infectious Disease Control Unit (NIDCU) within
the kvl%O wit  h  liso of redcin the- b- rden of~ i;eCts- dsa--- .-A -.s sh- prgr-    of'
Lue  .141 ..iLV iLLi Li1V  IMII33I "  JJ L JI 1%4UVU r,U  UL1~ ULUIU%U1)1 IJL1LLV1L1WU.O  UIO ULIU  (ILA  ~   LL%' ul A F- & O -
selected diseases, which threaten public health. Among the preventive activities related with HIV/AIDS,
'4ILLOCU WUUIU UUUVke:Br. (i) screvingIUL f Io V, 1ii) sociULIal 11.UIA   an1d 1 .AconUdo,I UIsUIUUL1IViIn (iii)
voluntary counseling and testing; (iv) strengthening of the STI program; (v) strengthening the national
tuberculosis control program Q-41`1 C); anu (vi) uevelopimg uie nTu v ivi CT pLrvenuv on proguP .
a) Coupies Chailenge Program (IUSS 0.038)
Couples would be encouraged to ask for HI1V/AIDS counseling and testing. The aim will be to enroll and
test as many couples as possible.
b) Strengthening Voluntary Counseling and Confidential lIlV Testing (US$ 0.206 million)
The project would support: (i) hiring consultants to organize the voluntary counseling and testing (VCT)
for the country; (ii) upgrading the physical capacity of public clinics to allow physicians to provide
counseling and testing services; (iii) training nurses and counselors operating in the public clinic network
and hospitals; and (iv) acquiring audiovisual equipment and education materials for counseling and
confidential testing.



,.~ ('rn~A~., f arve A 9dlA -;1-
c.) Condomfflf Dt..bultZ£Aion 'US$ 0.604~ mi!!ionf)
The project would support the development of social marketing, train peer groups, installation of vending
machuir.e, a.uu vuiuL 5UdLateies LU to1d1, r.ake UVILOUI aVailable andU accsibJlegn LU aLo eVc11Ir.L
and adult population. Also, the project would promote visible access to condoms in hotels, motels,
reswauranLs, enterwaii- ert and Uiiier puulic p:aces.
d) Prevention and Controi Of STis (US$ G.058 million)
With cooperation of CAREC, the project would strengthen the MOH's STIs prevention and control
program through its network of polyclinics. it would train health workers in the syndromic management
approach. Equipment for clinical examination, laboratory equipment and reagents, training, drugs, and
distribution of audiovisual and written materials for IEC would be financed under the project.
Surveillance of STIs would be part of the surveillance system supported under the project.
e) Prevention and control of TB ( US$-0.015 million)
Although TB incidence is still low (4/100,000), the project would finance laboratory testing, training of
health personnel, drugs, and inputs for strengthening TB management as a measure to prevent and
control TB, with particular emphasis on HAV/AIDS patients. TB surveillance would be included as part
of the surveillance system supported under the project.
fI Prevention of HV/AEDS Mother-to-Child Transmission (US$ 0.238 million?
The project, with cooperation of CAREC, would support a MTCT preventive program and adopt
improved clinical practices for testing and counseling as part of pre-natal care. The proiect would support
pre-counseling, screening for HIV, and provide the Nevirapine drug for positive pregnant women and
their newborns. It would also sunnort the nromotion of bottle-feeding of babies born from nositive
mothers, as part of the Government's counterpart obligations. Booklets and leaflets about HIV infection
and MTCT prevention w.nild he prodi ced
Wvi Crnn*w,I nfl.ah ra   A a* anAi 1t1nnA I.Qnniw iTIQ A1 (11 miiilnnI
g), Control of T aborator.es and B!ood Surp., {T-S 0.025 nni!!ion,
In cooperation with CAREC, the project would improve capacity and quality of laboratory testing at the
Genera! T.ospita! for HT-V  TrY and OIs, bfrl,ning lai.ratan, equionf rIeager,ts ar,d 0t-ff--r-nig-
-L  OF-Wf  .-Af  .- * ,  -. X   AAAA-  _.n, LsJ  - -A V ...±nr, -nA.,,cfl Tfl  aujIlJI,f L~~fL,CfA04AJ  iLfhll
With these interventions, the project would help to reduce to zero the HIV cases due to blood transfusions
ar.LA would IA s4 U-1                ---- -aIr y qruali;I Arto  a I..d bl1oo   ban  AU: ---- -uiases
including HIV.
h) Medical Waste Management (US$ 0.825 million)
Aliiiough tihe size anid type of services provided oy the project does not pose tuireat to health personniie,
patients, or the community, the project would finance the strengthening of the biomedical waste
management system in public health facilities, including equipment, training, and technical assistance.
Component 3: Access to Treatment and Care (US$ 1.15 million; Bank financing US$ 1.04 million)
a) Care and Treatment (US$ 1.02 million)
The project would support upgrading current services available for providing care to PLWA, and for
treatment, including the introduction of triple ART. Priority actions that would be met before initiating
project ART financing include: (i) strengthening laboratory capacity by constructing a new facility in the
General Hospital and by supporting subregional arrangements with CAREC to diagnose HIV/AIDS and
opportunistic infections; (ii) development/adaptation of clinical protocols, and training of health
personnel; (iii) pharmacy/subregional drug procurement arrangements strengthening in order to provide a
supportive environment for the utilization of ART; (iv) strengthening infrastructure for community health
services, including upgrading polyclinics for counseling and testing; and (v) expanding the infrastructure
and canacitv for 01 treatment and management of ART.



13
b) Home Care (US$ 0.14 miUion)
The project would finance development of manuals, training of health staff on counseling of patient's
families, understanding the meaning of CD4 count and viral load results, basic clinical equipment for
patient follow up at home, and home care. Specific family education materials for home care would also
be financed. The care package would be available to neonle who are registered with the proiect and
would send a strong message that it is advantageous to the PLWA to be reported to the project and to
keen links with it.
Component 4: Institutional Development, Management and Surveillance (US$2.34 million; Bank
financing US$1.46 million)
a) Institutional Development and Management (US$ 1.77 million)
Tth p:jetwol suppod. he es+bIlish--.,.  ant d oprto  f the NTAC whos rradtewud-et
KIC '  e yJ*.~  wouIr  .. Lef   IU4i1A.1I~RL ULIL uFZiIL  VIJU LI1V I'r% VWIIVU~ IIaL11UaLV, VV%UUIU UL LU
provide policy guidance and leadership to the multi-sectoral program. It would be led by a Chairperson
lLILo 'would also mna.-age project, implementation. ]LAine MinistiesM WI'UI Vperational responsibi1lVbtiefr .heV
project would designate a "focal point" staff to be responsible for implementing designated project
activiiics. miiit  iA vMnuies-1us to bu incuiuuuu woulu De Eun ivirrLj, Minisuy 01 riealul, Minisuy of
Education, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Social Services, Ministry of Youth, Ministry of Agriculture,
and vministry of Foreign Affairs.
National AIDS Council (NAC). Tne Council would be responsible for assuring that collective
resources needed for the National Strategic HIV/AIDS Plan would be sought and that annual work
programs would be developed. The Council would report to the Cabinet on a half-yearly basis with a
written progress report. The NAC would be supported by a new Directorate, which would be staffed in
part through personnel sharing with the MFPD/PCU and the MOH/NIDCU (below), and in part by new
hires.
National Infectious Disease Control Unit - NIDCU. The project would finance the organization of a
new MOH Unit. NIDCU would be responsible for the public health and clinical aspects of the HIV/AIDS
program. In addition, it would be responsible for addressing a number of other infectious diseases
prevalent in Grenada. Its staffing would be largely drawn from among existing MOH staff, supported by
new staff.
b) Surveilance and Research (US$ 0.57 million)
The project would provide resources for the installation of a Surveillance System and to strengthen sub
regional arrangements with CAREC (see implementation arrangements). This would include system
design, adaptation of available software, and procurement of hardware, installation, provision of
information technolovv (IT) support, and the training for practitioners, laboratory staff and MOH
researchers required to use the system. Project resources would finance the requisite consultant services,
physical infrastructure- goods and training services reqniired to estahlish the svqtem- and contribute to
operating costs, on a declining basis.
The project would also finance periodic surveys of KAP (second generation surveillance) to support the
trgefmng of messages fnr the nnniplation as a ihnle and to specific xrulnn ab. groupn,s." Specifi rpcoarnh
issues on HIV/ADS epidemiology, behavioral changes, clinical and community management of
L Tr/AMQ andPr1 oZn;/nc* frotsv+;r -oz-1A heo ;A -449A -A         ro---oul sAons wt-AaA
A" v I' rMLL  1,J   .J.-            m..I..As  wA.Li V  xuu nuJA Li  cuL SV fl*c "FJII  WVTLUIU  U. 1 1 tLL, 11   I OlJW lUjl I I  tVV" VW
assessed for financing.



14
Table 1: Estimated Project Costs by Component
|ikitdivte J  {of  I tanl-      % of ank-
Otnb%tionnt                                110twic     T,as 't'!tI  ir;"3-nji..F I"quejttei
t~t~~Uht.hfld~f                I .I A .Ti ,  I    1 Al I . I
I   I f /1Ar       1.41   19.5 I      12.
Prevention and ControlH l          v /            2.01 V1  2.g .     1.89      31.3     l
.   -   - -   ,   - -~ ~  - I -  I   T mr, A,   II AP~^      A 
Accessto TreatmelitandCare       ruvlt%iio        ;. I   10    1      .0        17.
iLnstitutionai Deveiopment,    1 iivilivS         Z .34  iz3.14      .146      L 4.i I
Management and Surveillance    l
UnaDlocated                                       0.28    3.8        0.28       4.6
Total                                             7.19   99.6        6.01  1   99.5
Front-end fee                              |      0.03    0.4        0.03       0.5
Total Financing Required                   I      7.22  100.0        6.04     100.0     I
2. Key Dolicy and institutional reforms to be souEgt
The proiect would assist the GOG to mainstream the prevention and control of HRV/AIDS as a maior
component of its public health activities to control the epidemic and STIs. It would also support
strengthening of human resources for scaling up prevention and treatnent of H4V/AMS. and the
reduction of discrimination as part of its longer term goals for equity and social development.
Under the proposed project, support would be provided for raising awareness about HlV/AIDS as a multi-
sectoral development issue-not only as a health concem. Support would also be provided for the
development of participatory national strategic HIV/AIDS plans and deconcentrated organizational and
managerial arrangements for project implementation to facilitate govermment work in partnership with
PLWAs, community groups, religious organizations, NGOs, health professionals, and the private sector.
Monitoring and impact evaluation mechanisms, as well as support for research and surveillance, would
enhance the country's capacity to manage the epidemic effectively.
3. Benefits and target nopulation
T Zll' XIU  I~  TTUIU  OW   GJUL  Ulu.JlJ1lV1.Y . ,5*y  lLV L ML  I  VIUVVUI  Il IIUIJlilU, 3UL%,1 CU aU  Ll.UIUII.,VL4L uiaL
accompanies the rise in HIV/AIDS cases, which disproportionately affects the more productive segments
01 LIUI ernLIIy. IL WoUlU aiso extend and uiipi-ovuz the 4u:ilty V1 life o1 rL wt%5 wi teuiir souui auiU
economic contributions. Indirectly, treatment would also control and reduce the human and financial cost
ofutreating opportunistic infections, which represent an avoidable burden on the nealth care system.
Of equal importance, with longer-term benefits, would be the achievement of a more sustained,
participatory and multi-sectoral view of the epidemic as a national threat, and the mainstreaming of
actions to contain it.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Phased Implementation Strategy
Project activities would evolve as lessons are learned in the implementation progresses. The effectiveness
of many proposed project activities, especially of those directed at changing behavior and attitudes, is



15
difficult to predict in the short term. Evaluation of IEC interventions would be sought to introduce
modifications in strategies and scope. Annual progress reviews would contribute to the use of rolling
annual work plans and a mid-term review would be an important management tool for proiect
adjustments if necessary.
Of particular concern would be the GOG's ability to introduce and scale up ART. A period of
preparation; sunnorted by the nroiect, would he nertersA ry for this to occir. Prmoress leadina to the
decision of introducing public-sponsored ART would'be assessed through the following benchmarks:
a) establishing and operating the management structure for the project, including the National AIDS
Counncil and its Diret,tonrat- and a enpciaHet AM4S pl;.i-a1 r.aromr,T.Tr tea r. in  th lCT;
b) p.        ar.d i                *JA of knrtiaontn  actifv itiude iormanlt  2;thn flAL  ar.d
n) rnmnlpt;n" if at ; c^ru,hw, A huu.,,on r-A  . ;     t^ t     r-^   A VT ,1;    -.1I
-,r  . ..jl ..,n J.  u ... n . E_. .n UA. _- tur  fltdJAIflfl  ...on.. ............. mY '.nJ.tvvAAA,L   ......J.  .a.a~ a rf. .1  V 11'.l  VV f.V
involve:
*  refurbishing, remodeling, expansion of clinical space for voluntary counseling and testing,
laboratory and pharmaceutical services, and hospital and home care for HI V/AIDS patients;
* equipping and staffing laboratory facilities for in-country H1V testing (ELISA test), opportunistic
diseases. and ensuring reliable access to CD4 count and viral load testine under arrangements
with CAREC;
*  establishing an adequate nrocurement process for purchasing ARV dnigs in suffincien.t ^m..unts
*  completing staffing and training for a MOH/hospital AIDS clinical management team; and
-44-r.+-n-A+         +1,       ADr --1.1 -    A1- .-         P-1l.  
'UL10CMLM1,.7J uFJ"C4LZ5 V.1k pIvLJ%UV.AIO IVJ fL%. al VVVlI UL UjJUaLLUir UI1, 11142UU41 LUL UIV, piUpVI U4.IUUi111r
and disposal of medical waste.
Institutional Arrangements
Based on the institutional capacity assessment made during preparation, the project would introduce an
institutional and management structure that wouid permit the widest participation of staKehoider groups m
the development of the country's HIV/AIDS policy and the Government's strategic response, and would
elevate public accountability t^or resuits. Tie project wouid use sub regional arrangements with CAKEC
and would address staff shortages in technical, financial and administrative areas through the sharing of
functions with other agencies. It would also recruit internationally selected specialized staff not yet
available in Grenada in areas of overall HIlV/AIDS multi-sectoral project management and management
of communications for behavior change. The project's governance structure, levels of management and
their respective responsibilities would be as follows:
Institutional Roles and Responsibilities. Agencies would have the following roles and responsibilities:
a) Prime Minister's Office and Cabinet would continue to represent the public interest vis-a-vis the
project, and be accountable to the public for project results and budget expenditures.
b) National AIDS Council (NAC) would be responsible for the overall coordination and
implementation of the proiect. It would be appointed by the Prime Minister, and be composed of
representatives of major stakeholder groups including health care providers, NGOs, PLWA, civil liberties
advocates, and oDinion makers. It would advise the government on WilV/AIDS nolicy; set the nriorities
for the project and advise on budget parameters. It would also be accountable to the Prime Minister for
proiect results. The legal framework for the NAC is now being decided. However, it wnuild he exnected
to have power to receive and disburse public sector monies, exercise the coordination function between
other n,pulip agnieiis and ministries, consult and receive feedback directly from the public, a.d hire staff..



16
c. NAC rhairnorman (end Prnip;t flirpetnir wnAild hP vin indlivi;A,al nf nrnvpn PYptniutVp 1pnAiprchin
and operational knowledge of the HIV/AIDS epidemic responses. He/she would be appointed by the
Prime Miniseter Writh advi_e ar.d *onsent of thm NTAC. LTi./h- r,a,or nba nc o-'abty, vould be to motivafe
and lead the NAC in its mission, mobilize the national dialogue on HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and
assure +Uh rel.6o of-+- -Cwhe prga,ns   _tei gas As -rjc Director he/sh wold<I  oses h
a3ui le itc"atLvuu v.1 uLLL6~ FJLUaltUU 0 OuaLvI1b.. Sual  tiLO KUJV,...L FLJUV,LVlI, LUWIMlIVW VULU iU  PUbbUbb L11
managerial skills to assume responsibility for public sector staff, consultants, public sector resources, and
Ue accoutaUtble JlU-r Wlb eco;UoiIy taiu e;lilciacy vi wurK programs anu uuugei execution. inu legal status of
the Chairperson/Director is to be decided, but should permit him/her to control staff, direct activity across
line ministries, and authorize expenditure oi pubiic monies within the usual framework for public sector
administration. Terms of Reference for the position are contained in the Operations Manual.
d) Project Directorate would be formed as a "virtual unit" as part of the NAC, drawing together
services from two existing public sector units, and the services of additional staff (public service and/or
contractual term employees) to manage the HIV/AIDS prevention and control project. It would be
managed by the Project Director (who may also be the Chairperson of the NAC), and staffed with a
Deputy Director/Communications Director responsible for overall management of the behavior change
and advocacy aspects of the project; a Project Assistant for coordinating and facilitating the contributions
of multi-sectoral participating agencies in the public sector and from among NGOs; procurement and
financial management staff of the MFPD/PCU; and technical medical staff of the NIDCU for managing
the clinical prevention, treatment and care of HIV/AIDS and opportunistic infections.  Terms of
Reference of these key staff are in the Operations Manual.
The Directorate would be legally structured as the executive arm and secretariat within the NAC, and be
responsible for preparing annual work nlans with participating agencies and budgets and supervising their
implementation; assuring relevance and technical soundness of HIV/AIDS interventions; assuring
economy and cost-effectiveness in the project; and mnnitonring and evaluating proj ct effectiveness, and
reporting on this.
e) National Infectious Diseases Control Unit (NIDCU) would be formned as a new unit with project
support, out of staff and facilities c-e-tly devot.ed to ...ar.aing -sever infectious diseae  pg s
independently. It would be formed within the MOH with the mandate of reducing the burden of common
LVV.JL&.O UAWW0 Ulil 01%10.LJJAr %ULU1%1aAa 1( LxuaILUUIa jJrFUUIII ILJLa1LU OU%al'1 aO 1 V I tlL.) ~JUlb U1V4
targeted would include opportunistic infections following HIV/AIDS, STIs, TB, hepatitis B viral infection
anduiirun Tce Il: LyiU.lUUhtopic vLJ r V 1i,fecion tyLpe I nfecii.iUUns..
'kffTrrl T T 12 t. - -   !t.I    _ - I  yi - , T yr... -   --   - -  ~  -- snrvrI.__
N'litTU would becomjue respunsiulei ior spcific i-u v  /-uSa programs ior Nvil -.CT , and control oI STIs, and
for coordinating the testing and counseling, patient surveillance and records, in collaboration with
physicians and clinicians. it would ultimately become responsible for managing the administration of
ARV drugs through clinicians and physicians when ART is introduced.
Staffing of the new unit would include:
*  Unit Director (1) responsible for the Unit's functioning; the quality of its operations including
supervising screening and contact tracing;
*  Infectious Disease Physician to assist in case management and care provision;
*  Nurse Coordinator (1) responsible for terforming contact tracing. counseling and education- and
supervision of Nurse Investigators;
*  Nurse Tnvestigators assisting clinics with contact tracing, training families of infe-ted persons,
participating in education and counseling programs;
* ^1Counselor -responsible fo priAdn  e  r Aice to others on counlselng th-a  . A. t gie
counseling families of infected persons in addressing social and psychological effects of the
Udisees, cLu1,euir,g yuuul dIU chiI:iui  oni 01xAUkILy-u nd S 11 Ls dmillission; and
*  Health educator to assist in developing and transmitting educational messages concerning
infectious diseases.



17
Terms of Reference of this staff are contained in Annex 2, and the Operations Manuai.
f) Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been formed within the MFPD explicitly for financial
management and procurement associated with the GOG's capital projects and in particular, ongoing
World Bank financed projects. It would also perform these functions for the HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Project. This PCU would be responsible for managing project accounts, disbursements from the
loan/credit accounts, financial reporting, procurement of goods, services and works for the project,
according to World Bank guidelines. The PCU would be staffed with at least a Project Coordinator, a
Procurement Officer, an Accountant and a Deputy Accountant.
g) Agency Focal Points would be defined as an individual identified in each participating Ministry (or
other varticipating agency) to be responsible for identifving and coordinating that agency's HIV/AIDS
activities. This person would be responsible, with assistance of the Directorate, for establishing contact
with the agencv's targeted constituencies concerning HIV/AIDS issues and for identifvinz services that
can address these issues. The Focal Point would be responsible for daily implementation of agreed work
proiect activities includinog initiRtina irn ilrement nf gyoods szerviUpm s-nd wArkCQ n mav he needed with
the help of the PCU.
h) Non-Governmental, Faith-Based and Community-Based Organizations (NGOs, FBOs, CBOs)
-,vuld be solited nr selected f,. proposals to proviAd spcific C-A,00c &dA nin specified role  ndear
contract with the Directorate in the program. They would, depending on their comparative advantages,
focus on senving the rweds Lofpecic Wget groups at ,  or lof  r,e o  .-.
umpIjmiuU,uIuu ME A UUgVULmu
AiUiual VVWUro rkIuiuig aUU rrugrlM,uulg. 1 Hn rroJeUC wuuiu UV mipIeIieneHfu UIowiig ariiutui work
programs, developed following a calendar that mirrored the preparation of the GOG annual budget.
Annuai work programs would be desitgned to account for the results obtained in tne prior year's work, Tie
further refinement of the needs of vulnerable groups, and new opportunities and knowledge that become
available.  Tne project's Operations Manual would contain guidelines for annual work project
preparation.
The financial management of the project (including accounting, reporting audits and disbursements) will
be coordinated by the PCU. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be established and
managed accordingly to Bank guidelines as prescribed in the Disbursement Handbook. Audits would be
conducted by private sector auditors, recruited at the beginning of the project and would be retained
subject to good performance throughout the implementation period. Their appointment would be a
condition of loan and credit effectiveness.
Details relating to the financial management system, location and management of a special account (or
accounts) to be held in a commercial bank would be agreed during project appraisal and reviewed through
a Financial Management Assessment. Details are included in the proiect's Operations Manual.
Sub-regional Arrangements. With regional support from CAREC, the MOH's will strengthen its
epidemiological and analytical capacity to monitor the HIV/AIDS situation and to evaluate the impact of
the proiect. CAREC would also assist the MOH providing technical support towards the strengthening of
the STV/AIDS surveillance system, in the programming and execution of surveys and in the training
of staff in surveillance, H1V and STI diagnosis including CD4; viral load and protease chain reaction
(PCR), behavioral sciences and research, mass media, strategic planning, project management and NGO
coordination. In additinn, CARPC would prnvide assistnn.ce through its technical staff advisers of
bilateral donor agencies, and its network of regional experts. The project would use present formal



18
anangements between GOG and the OECS/PPS for procurement of condoms, drugs, laboratory and
medical/surgical supplies.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The HIV/AIDS case management system, the installed IT Platform in
hospitals, laboratories and health centers and the online access to private physicians, would provide
secured real time information on treatment, costs, and outcomes at all levels of patient care. The
information available would enable project management units to monitor performance of project
implementation, and will contribute to the impact evaluation of the project.
A general level of monitoring the course of the epidemic and changes in behavior would be provided
through the improved surveillance system, and through periodic surveys (such as KAP surveys). Each
participating agency would also have agreed to its project output expectations as part of its annual work
plan. Each would then "self-evaluate" for a collective mid-year review of progress, and an "end-of-year"
evaluation of performance which would serve as input into the preparation of the subseauent year's
program. This information would be reviewed by the NAC.
An independent review of the results obtained would be conducted by contracted reviewers after about 30
months of exnerience to advise the Government and the NAC and the MFPD on adiustrnents in the
project's design, management arrangements, and costs and financing needs.
D. Project Rationale
1. Proiect alternatives considered and reasons for reiection
Single-sector versus a multi-sectoral approach. Grenada would apply the principle that activities of
mar.y govemiment mimsis"es --dagnis .-A 'kf'n. .-A            --r r,it grusAo 4s h  X}.-str; of
Health, are needed to mount an effective prevention and control Project.
Vertical or decentralized care delivery. To date, private physicians have performed all of the effective
Hi V' testing, and provided care when tuhis could be offered to AiDS patient. Witi a scaled -up treatment
and care program (Component 3), which would introduce ART as a regular alternative for AIDS patients,
a more closely managed and vertical care and treatment regime wowal De requirea. Lne weOG woula
consolidate the management of AIDS treatment in the MOHINIDCU in coordination with the primary
heaith care network. Tnis was considered to be preferable from a public health point of view to minimize
the risks of poor case management, low continuity in treatment, misuse of the drugs, and over-
prescription. It would also ailow GOG to react quickly to changes on recommended therapy regimes.
2. Mainr rPlstpA nrniPrta finnnrpd hv thp Rank Land/ar athpr lp.vplnnmpnt napnrip- fenmniptpd
ongoinu and planned)
The World Bank has not lent for health in Grenada. Grenada has, however, received bilateral assistance
from U.S Peace Corps, European Union (EU), and a number of NGOs. Grenada has also participated on
PAHOtWHO and CAREC programs to promote Family Health, and in the Caribbean Community Health
programs. Currently CAREC is providing additional support for epidemiological research, laboratory
services, and advisory services for the formulation of strategic plans to address HIV/AIDS.
Grenada has also received support for its PLWAs through the Caribbean Network of People Living with
HlV/AIDS (CRN+), a Caribbean-wide NGO established in 1996. to promote equitable and non-
discriminatory relations with PLWAs, and to advocate for adequate prevention, treatment and control
programm=
Most of this assistance has been able to support public awareness and crte for IVM/AW1S, which hasi
provided a strong basis for a program to expand the efforts through the present project.



19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in DroDosed Drolect design
The proiect adapts design features that underpin the Multi-Countrv EilV/AIDS Prevention and Control
Project for the Caribbean Region, and have been successful in other countries (summarized in Annex 4).
These include the following:
sl A)demonstr_ting a hich lpve! of crnvPrnrment d%r,mimtm..n cantA nrnpviAincr Aar natinnal lPadPrghmn for a
project;
b) h.alA;.g collabor';.on neto.-ksrL withb NGs1. ar, n.d ..n. com n;.t; . grup  as nan,r.on,an+r to publicn sector.
5.  JfA I   ~.Ll.t,   1V  5IfOW  lf -v -   - -   V.J'..- (flfl  %#JIllluUiL ...   S JFO  F0U fUR11#ff5.*I  AJ IA1   O~tLj*
agencies;
CN  A     _                       _          *_A 1t_ .. A Att_A+ _ t.
J UdeconVienUtin4LUl1b U11 1lC4LIVV 10UI VI1ULL, LU aULUIbb UIS VplUV1IIII.,
d) including the focus on treatment and care as a continuum in the project;
e) providing focus on behavior change of specific groups practicilg risky life-styles as a Key eIemeniL of
prevention and control; and
I) adopting implemenTation measures that provide rlexiDility and responsiveness to the epidemic as it
evolves.
The proposed project also adapts lessons from the previous experience with the National Task Force and
AIDS Program, in that it would create an advisory body - the National HIV/AIDS Council - with direct
involvement in project implementation and would be reporting to the Cabinet to ensure a stronger
institutional structure. Second, the project is being driven by pre-identified monitorable goals with
financial resources allocated through clearly identified agencies to achieve them. Third, management of
the H[V/AIDS activities would be assigned to dedicated persons both within agencies (focal points) and
within the new NAC Directorate, which would ensure managerial accountability.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownershin
Grenada has been an active participant in the Caribbean Regional Task Force on HIV/AIDS and a
co-n-;Ib..+-l +_, deelpmr, oft+=e C&-ibbearL&n JYN ID--:--. PCegion! Dtae i-- _& A-+: Acin. It is also
'.& LL  UULUr 5.5. UAL, 5.5.YWAjLI~1   L0 1  -ClUL .a   Iu aJiLii V 1E7111.fL3 iXVrlU1U1  tUGLAO 51I.~ A la"  VI fL'L10.LIV IL A L~
participating in regional negotiations with the drug manufacturing industry on the prices and availability
Cr Afl"'CT J_
O1 fu1 V urugs.
Grenauian political leadUership Iis iuiy corumiucut o unueruaKmig UIt expanude  v/AIDS rusponse. Tne
Prime Minister has agreed that the project be implemented under the auspices of his department through
tne National !iv'iAIDS Council, supported by a new Directorate tnat wiii have independent powers. Tnis
arrangement is also being supported by a wide cross-section of the administration and civil society which
has been studying the issues of u viAIDS through the Muiti-Sectorai Committee for severai years.
According to eligibility criteria set in Annex 5 of the APL for the Caribbean region, Grenada has
advanced during project preparation from a L+ (low +) to an A (Advanced) status in terms of readiness
for meeting the five criteria as conditions for negotiations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this Droiect
The most important value of World Bank involvement in supporting this project would be its
contributions to policy consolidation on HIV/AIDS in Grenada, improved management of prevention
activities, and technical expertise for ensuring appropriate scaling up of ART. The World Bank's support
for this project would assist Grenada to effectively establish an operational multi-sectoral H[V/AIDS
program.
At present, Grenada is receiving strategy advice and advocacy support for its initiatives, but making them
operational has been assumed almost exclusively by the country. The World Bank has supported detailed
planning of the prevention and institutional development program, and in particular is contributing to
Grenada's planning to initiate ART for all residents within a few years. The World Bank would provide



20
inr-rP.mienta!I rtQAhir'emp that wniulei ahllnw lrvpnniia to indeprtnlc- a qsri,n-a1d.iin Lt-evel of pnreventinn avrtivit1ez in
the short term, and fnance ART at a national level, as a matter of public health. This would be one of the
first such experiences             --r.ong  .-velonmgA  oul  a r.t.4+.a pilo*t pro,e in e kl;sh;g .h
credibility of similar programs in other countries.
Through the project, the World Bank would also be supporting Grenada's establishment of an
ui1itutiovLiiu Uiuiirwir u1aL wouIU puJpieLUMV UI' 11eMIdJ1gUrL111L, pPIVVIelVil, teUVatLUeHL &UId ctUUUI proJecL
in the longer term. This activity is likely to require a period of experimentation and adaptation of
processes to succeed and the project would provide a phased impIementation- within wvhich this can occur.
In addition, the World Bank's proposed project package also includes technical advice, assistance in
designing an impiementabie program, advice on procurement, regular supervision and assistance with
monitoring and evaluation. These intangibles, and the continuing transfer of global lessons of experience,
are particularly important in a complex area such as iilv/AIDS where best practices are still emerging.
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
The GOG economy is vulnerable to shocks from the loss of life and productivity that can be attributed to
HIV/AIDS. It is similar to other Caribbean economies that have predicted losses in Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) of between 1-2% per year if the HIV/AIDS epidemic is not controlled. Additional
budgetary costs that might be avoided are currently being incurred by Grenada through the treatment of
opportunistic infections that are triggered by HIV/AIDS. Grenada is also facing the risk of a declining
reputation as a tourist and a business center if it is perceived that there is little or no serious attempt to
control and prevent HIV/AIDS. Against these direct and indirect costs, the recurrent operating cost of the
proposed HIV/AIDS project is relatively small, and would account for about 5% of the current budget
devoted to community services in which HIV/AIDS is included. From another perspective, accounting
for increased maintenance of new facilities, periodic equipment replacement, and operating costs, the
annual cost of maintaining the new project would represent about 4% of the current budget for the public
health sector. Lastly, the cost of maintaining the ART provision of the project would represent an
increase of about 15% in Grenada's cuirrent niphlic sector drug bill. A more snecific economic evaluation
of the project is presented in Annex 4.
2. Financial
ERR exceeds 100% (see Annex 4)
A system for financial monitoring, accountability and control already in place for development projects,
(PCU) would be used to manage the proposed project. This system is currently being satisfactorily
applied to three other World Bank-financed projects.
While favorable, the longer term financial sustainability of the ART component of the prQlect is subject to
further analysis. At present available prices, and assuming that the public sector would finance the
treatment, the cost of drugs would represent about 15% of the current drug bill. However, this estimate
would be very sensitive to the number of persons being treated, which will in the short term increase with
imnroved testing and counseling. Then again, negotiations with drun sunplv cormnanies and alternative
sources of ARV drugs, and new therapeutic protocols are expected to reduce the unit costs substantially.
The final determination of the finanial viability of introducing ART will be made prior to introducinig
this treatment option.
Fiscal impact. Recurrent costs of the HIV/AIDS project would represent 3.7% of the current health
budget, and require an increment of about 2.3% to maintain the project at the end of the period (assuming
no increase in national personnel hiring). Under current assumptions, the purchase of ARV drugs needed
for treatment would amount to an increment of 10% in the current national drug budget. Prior to scaling



21
up ART, a further detailed analysis of the financial and technical sustainability of the project would be
made. Assuming that most of the consulting services and training, and half of the operating costs were
devoted to communitv services chanter of the budget- these would renresent a 4.3% increase in this
budget line. Finally, assuming that works, equipment, and half of the operating costs are attributed to the
hospital and cliiiics buid6ets, these would represent nn increase of 2.6%.
3. Tee'hnaie
After analyzing best practices in other countries on surveillance, promotion, prevention and care
interventions to control and eventually reduce the incidence of HIV/AIDS, the project would implement
those that best apply to the situation in the country. However, Grenada's human resources for secondary
care, and health system management are particularly scarce. In addition, due to the small size of the
population, it is not easy to justify the development of tertiary care services and technologies, which
would have a very low productivity. Yet dealing with PLWA would require mostly the primary and
secondary hospital care already in place in the country. Repatriation of nationals or contracting
expatriates (on a short to medium term basis) would be required for specialized areas such as system
management, IEC. voluntary counseling and testing, surveillance and evaluation. The proiect would
provide the means and incentives to attract and contract this required staff. Also, tertiary care services
would be looked after in neighboring countries which have been included as nart of the regional initiative
to control HIV/AIDS. In addition, other stakeholders such as externally funded NGOs would be able to
facilitate the recruitment and hiring of needed health nrofessionals.
4= Inqtititionna
Grenada has a residual of institutional experience in addressing HIV/AIDS, as well as clinical capacity to
address STIs. It also has had experience in non-health related ministries in addressing social and family
issues related to HIV. As a small society, there has also been a high degree of both formal and informal
contact between key segments of community leadership. This provides a basis in personnel that could
support new institutional arrangements and relationships for an expanded IHV response.
Because the project would be multi-sectoral, participating line ministries would be in charge of
implementing their respective activities included in annual implementation plans agreed with the NAC,
NIDCU and the PCU. To contribute to the sustainability of developmental objectives, in the medium and
long term, the project will provide technical assistance to ministries on an as-needed basis, both on
clinical processes, surveillance and management information systems and financial and procurement
aspects.
Currently the MOH has a centralized planning, 'budgeting and decision making, with limited
organizational and manaeerial canacitv at the hosnital and health center levels conforming the nublic
health delivery network. This issue will be addressed by the project allocating resources through the
Institutional Develonment Component in 14vTAMiDS participating unit-s to support the nronosed five year
Strategic Plan and its corporate program. The Plan includes strategies to: (i) improve the efficiency,
e.ffprtivpnpgg and qua2lity of thi. hia.Ath servicres elplipvrv npti,inrlk (ii) the imn1pmPntation of the
HIV/AIDS strategic plan; (iii) the reorganization of health services; (iv) the decentralization of hospitals;
and (fi) the i+hmplerention of humarn resource development pro-s. To that end, the project w,i!
provide the technical assistance for the implementation of the organizational structure at NIDCU and
%o111 %*le UVQ,;Lr r%nr  reJUqU Lin WUI L I YJ.er Ji VOH  oranLLLizUai Units, uI*, pFz.LiLJaLUu hLuositals, LaoiatVui ID,
health districts and MOH headquarters. Management training would be provided by the project to
buVnrguiVU uth caUpactLy LU andalyze ule SLTULJ1K)V1tv'S siLUULIUII LU ,argL VU-i14r.rb groups, LU Uuipiuve
protocols and clinical decision making, and to develop the planning and budgeting skills required for the
efficient allocation ano use oI resources.
The Management Information Systems (MIS) and the IT to be implemented by the project within the
HIV/AIDS Surveillance sub-component, will develop the IT operating capacity of the MOH, providing a



22
robust platform and a WtAN or owier hne;h uiforaU-tiOn UpplicatioUns ikse lec-i UniC clmn;cai records,
surveillance, drugs and medical supplies inventory control, accounting and financial management,
contributing to the modernization of the health sector in line with government priorities.
The GOG would take advantage of nresent formal arrangements with regional agencies such as CAREC
and OECS/PPS for strengthening institutional capacity to implement the project.
4.1 Executing Agencies. Principal executing agencies are: Ministry of Health (NIDU); Ministry of
1snan.ce (PCI'Tf and thi.e MAC', (fri be. fm-ed.A
4.2 Project Management. The project would be managed and governed through reporting and
accountability relationships shown in Annex 7. The processes for establishing annual work programs and
budgets, managing implementation including quarterly reporting, mid-year reviews of implementation
progress and end-of-year project evaluations are outlined in the Operations Manual.
Although Grenada has developed adequate public health institutions, it has, as many other small
Caribbean countries, insufficient qualified human resources.  Based on the institutional capacity
assessment made during preparation, the project would introduce an institutional and management
structure in order to address staff shortages in areas of technical capacity as well as financial and
administrative management.
4.3 Procurement Issues. Procurement under the project would be implemented by the PCU for goods,
in1ifdina, condomsnm  nn.uultRnt qsrvirq and Ather innitq finane'd not nf lnan nrnorePd And anuthnri7ed hv
the NAC. The PCU would follow the tendering procedures of the GOG, as supplemented to conform to
the w, rhl Ranlinr        ,w,,Aplnaa f ow Wnrks, Goo4ds and rnnsulftant eruvice.a Ar.rnrA;n tor fAiP Dnte, vraman+t
Capacity Assessment of the PCU performed on February 2002, the procurement risk for this project is
c; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ &       -4r ---..... 
L ocUreLm1eVLL WUUIU LbV 11maragedU ULr Ul Ubais VI ariua.i F1J prcuremer.tL pilars UlaL wuU:U W.)1  toUIU LU ULV
annual work programs. The World Bank would approve both the annual work program and the
corresponding pruO-1iement plUa.
Tne PCU would also be supported by the Organization of Eastern Cariboean StatesrPharmnaceutical
Procurement Service (OECS/PPS) under ongoing sub regional arrangements. This agency, which is part
of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, procures pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and x-ray
supplies on behalf of the governments comprising the OECS (Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, British Virgin
Islands, Dominica, Grenada Montserrat, St. Kitt'siNevis, St. Lucia and St. Vincent & The Grenadines).
Grenada participates in the central OECS drug procurement organization to obtain all drugs for the public
sector health services. Drugs are typically procured to satisfy "National Formularies"(lists of types and
quantities of various name brand and/or generic drugs needed for the year). These needs are pooled
across the OECS countries and prices for the range of drugs are obtained through offers from regional
wholesale suppliers that represent manufacturers. Contracts are awarded on the basis of the lowest price
for a specified quantity to be delivered to each country throughout the year. An assessment of this system
was conducted to verify its conformity with World Bank guidelines for procuring drugs and medicines.
Concerning the procurement of condoms and ARV drugs, when the GOG is ready to begin ART, ARV
drugs would be included in its National Formulary, and procured through the OECS system, subject to an
assessment. ARV drugs would then be nrocured from suppliers according to registered brand names, at
prices that are being negotiated in various settings with manufacturers (Grenada is currently participating
in the Caribbean initiative to negotiate prices fnr ARV dnrugs on a regional haqis with manufactturer), nnd
would be proposed to the World Bank (when loan proceeds are to be used to finance the purchase) as
"sole source" procutrement. However, Gnada may decide to mr,eet the condit;.ions under the TRI4PS



23
agreement reached at a recent meeting at Doha, and therefore oualifv for purchasing drugs from sunnliers
other than the manufacturer or his licensee.' This issue will be decided during project implementation.
Key elements of the procurement assessment made for the project are included in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial Management Issues. Accounting and financial management for the project would be the
responsibility of the PCIT  Thnis u,nit . 1ould also be the o  for all mbhApv   rcdig
accounting and reporting. Disbursements would be made on the basis of the Financial Management
JLX'.q%jU La ki JVJUL_J Sy aEC31I VY LUIA1  U1V  L  %. J LO %AIJ I V.IRLI3V PJI a%.,LI'.IIi,.  X I %UUa%.Ll V , ILLCUIVI~IIr   V  V,&PVIiUIUIV ~5Up
to US$290,000 for eligible expenditures made following World Bank procurement-compatible
procedures, effV.i-6ve ituewr Apiii 1, 2 L002 tU loan and UeUIL siglUig.  LUe rPU w-ulu upen and llin'ain
project accounts for the sources of financing (IDA and IBRD) in a commercial bank for the payment of
project-related expenses. T1iswouid be provisioned from a Special Account held at tne same banK in tne
namne of the project, which would transfer loan/credit proceeds to the project. The PCU is experienced in
managing such a process. Estadblishng the project account ana the Special Account, as well as tne
designation of signing authorities would be a condition of effectiveness.
5 1VmnvirnnmPnfth          Vnvironmemnt*al Cateonrv B (Pa rfmI! AsesPqqmPnt)
S 1  uimmlIri7P tha cttvne iindrtflepn fnr PnvirnAnmPntnl acQeem&nt smni FMlP nrpnsrntinn (iinnhi1ina
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Grenada has a 240-bed secondary care hospital under'complete refurbishing and upgrading, two primary
care hospitals, 6 heat+h centers, and 30 medical stations.  11.+L.a A ,  .-A treatment of medica!
waste at the main hospital is not perceived as an issue. A medical waste management assessment for all
IIheaIU. facilILtVi was cor,.UaVtIed-LU WIUl a I P%XI%J ^  i.UL Ucon UltU a   UIdCIL Ir.rpIL oruas UbII proUUced. ILt mliajul
findings and specific recommendations are presented in Annex 2-B. The assessment has provided a
detailed, facility-by-faility statemenLi of imIIprovemIHents ulat could be 1un,derKen in Ulte short term Withl
minimal expense. It also provides recommendations which would alter the structure of biomedical waste
management environment in Grenada health care system. To address these recommendations, within the
project, the MOH would mitigate the environmental risk of poor biomedical waste management by
forming a Biomedical w'aste Management Team within the Ministry of Health and establishing reiated
arrangement in health facilities with a designated head to:
a) coordinate and program the application of the facility-by-facility recommendations of the
assessment. Funding for small equipment as necessary would be drawn from the project.
b) review and rationalize, with the assistance of consultants, the legal framework, organization
and management structure of the system according to the assessment's recommendations and
prepare updated regulations;
c) prepare documentation describing the functioning and provide technical specifications of the
equipment needed to implement a unified waste segregation, classification, minimization and
disposal system which could include the acquisition of new incinerator facilities after a
careful analysis of enviromnental impacts is carried out along with a plan for mitigation of
these impacts, and training of operators on proper and safe incinerator operation. The costs of
the equipment and facilities would be financed through the proiect; and
d) program and deliver updated training and information for health care professionals and other
staff coming into contact with biomedical waste.
b. Environmental category:  []   A      [x]    B      [I    C      [j Fl
iThese conditions are essentially; (i) that existing Grenadian legislation provides for compulsory licensing; (ii) that
a national emergency has been declared; and (iii) there is a ready source of the drugs from inside the country or
outside.



24
c. Justification/Rationale for categorv rating:
An assessment of the medical waste situation conducted under the World Bank financed OECS Solid
Waste Management Project provides recommendations for improvements. inese will be undertaken as
part of the project.
d. Local groups and NGOs consulted: See " Social", below.
e. Resettlement
J.2 VWhiaL are ULV imain fLaLUIa V1 UIV, F,VII aLrU are, LuJhy zqU"-
Jis Major innUMgs au specifc; reUornmeIIUUtioins 01 LIV ravire adeqUWat. ileu assessIil1IlL h14s poVieUVU
a detailed, facility-by-facility statement of improvements that could be undertaken in the. short term with
minimal expense. it also provides recommendations -which would alter tihe structure of biomedical waste
management environment in Grenada health care system. See Annex 2-B for detailed description.
5.3 For Categorv A and B nroiects- tirneline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 04/29/2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the en.vironm.ent-al imp-ac-ts and proposed environmlent manragemen:t pLan? De'Gcrihe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Information for the EA was obtained from meetings with stakeholders and visits to various representative
fa.;cli;ti conducted beTxen F cebr-A 11 to 1 2002. Specificsorce- incllurld-
a) Data gathered during meetings with govermnent officials, health-care facility staff, solid waste
management personnel, -nd ot+her s   -eholders
b) Observations and photo-documentation of existing practices and technologies during site visits to
two public hospitals, one private hospital, LWV health cen.tres, a m..edical station, major phFrmcuacy,
crematorium, landfill, and the old dumpsite.
c) Review of relevant documents and publicly available refereuce mnaterials
d) Responses to follow-up requests for additional information
e) Preliminary information provided by me Naturau Resource Management Unit, Organization of
Eastern Caribbean States.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP has provided detailed standards for establishing technically sound biomedical waste
management from collection through to final disposal. The project will monitor the adoption of
biomedical waste management standards and safeguards as part of regular supervision missions.
6. Social
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project activities, and specify the project's social
development outcomes
Grenada's small size makes it more vulnerable to economic and social crisis and the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, even though modest in numbers, poses a serious threat to Grenada's development in the short



25
and medium term. These socioeconomic issues have been acknowledged at the highest level of
government and therefore the project has given full support to addressing them.
As the epidemic in Grenada is shifting from concentrated (confined to specific sub-populations) to a more
general one, there is a need for a corresponding shift in addressing the epidemic from a narrow
behaviouralist approach to a wider societal one. Because most of the factors (both direct and indirect)
driving the epidemic are social. the project would have to deal with these; especially the stiematization of
PLWHA, perceptions of masculinity and femininity in the society, and the frequency of multiple sexual
nnrtn.er. and pionomifr vuInernhilitv whi-h mni.es femitc mnore at risk. It wonild alo have to deal with
the marginalization of high risk groups (MSM, injecting drug users (IDU), and commercial sex workers
(CSWs), and prison inmates). Ln order to achieve the project's goals of reduci.ng the spread of FIV
infection and improving the care and support for infected and affected persons, the approach taken to deal
wILt Uthese s alG isues  A is  tVic4.
i. SILUaLlUlI allUbIyI V1 UI L  II %JI1UdaUa WIUIVII a111 u1n.auub buiUi SOCIai a.Ia   iiai uuVIi
conducted by UN Theme Group on H[V/AIDS. The stigma associated with homosexuality has been
iliikeio thie high percenwge ofi uiusw Wuos, MOUC 01 mrdiSMISSIu 01 IV iS uiuuiuwii. IUvI1Lifying ute
mode of transmission of infection is critical to developing relevant prevention activities. If the majority
of tnis "unknown" group contacted tne riV infection tnrough homosexuai activiiies and tierefore
indicating that this mode of transmission is very significant, then a shift in the emphasis of preventive
activities directed at MSM is important.
Tlhe stigma associated with WlV/AILDS has resulted in the majority of those infected being seen at the
health services only at the end stages leading to the high mortality rates associated with the disease in the
country. Gender relations and economic vulnerabilities in Grenada means that a complex nexus of issues
also help to fuel WHV transmission within the populace. This is registered in the fact that more new cases
are being reported in women than men and in the fact that WIV infection in young girls is three times that
in boys of the same age.
The marginalization of high risk groups makes it difficult for them to access services that are available for
prevention and care, making them more at risk of contracting and spreading the infection as well as being
more vulnerable to its impacts.
HIV/ALI)S being a maior developmental and societal issue, makes it imperative that the project take a
participatory approach in all aspects of the project involving key ministries, the private sector, non-
government sector and key stakeholders in civil society, including faith-based organizations, PLWHA and
other donor organizations in Grenada.
There has been wide debate and public involvement in questions related to the direction and content of
the Nstional Strategic WV/AIDS Plan- The parties have included community service NGOs; emnlovers
association, the Grenada Medical Association, and the management of major local corporations. In
Jnuanrv 9009 qn initintive fnr nrgni7ing a new multi-sectnrqal Nntionnl TWV/AIR Ao'enrv was
presented to about 25 private and public organizations, including line Ministries. After a broad discussion
it was ageed that WV/AMQS is a r.atinal de.elopment and social as well as a public health issue that had
to be addressed through the GOG. It was agreed that Grenada would form the National AIDS Council
u... cor.tinue olingium additionl1 pFubi consuWltions wVth UL.LJ.tdt  o l 0 to U../g newV ;r.sights o
ways in which public and private agencies can join efforts to assure public accountability and to maintain
Lechmical Wand po:i.  f   orlitiLi SuippOit IU,I Ui dhe PlarIU LUI L pUJVltL.
I  -  I  r  I     TYT.,,.rr%rl  1t1-  -   -- --          -----I
Stigmatizaiion and vioiation o0 numan rights oI i-Vn uuuS patients wouia oe adequately auuresseu
through information, education and communication to the general population and through promoting
appropriate new legislation. Both activities would be supported by tne project. Changing gender
relations in a machismo culture is a long-term and difficult process. Toward this end, the project would



aim to: (i) irclude mressages in JVI/AMDS campaigns empowering women, especia!ly in sexual decision-
making; (ii) provide gender-sensitive peer education, equal access to information, education and
pr-eventi.on inev.tion, sensi-t--+ir.g me  (iii) ,p. of.ote r apprr mats. .t.s.trM
methods, such as female condoms, improve condom negotiations skills; (iv) create supportive
ernviLU1r11L, (V) iomatu  uL.iUIan1nuu andu OLs.ma, anu (vi) udveIVp gr%UU -senUsLIVt:v cU&- &nd. OUFF^VrLL
for women living with HIV/AIDS.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
NGOs, PL-WAs, and community grass roots groups have contributed tnrough specific national
consultations. Contracts with NGOs for project implementation, including IEC interventions, preventive
activities, home care, and advocacy would foster participation and ownership. The proposed structure of
the NAC, which would include representatives of a wide cross section of stakeholders would
institutionalize this form of participation.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The establishment of the National AIDS Council would gather the most representative stakeholders in
the management of HIV/AIDS in the country. A key stakeholder would be the Ministry of Finance which
would take the responsibility for fnancial and administrative project matters through the PCU within its
Projects and Development Cooperation Unit.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and civil society representation comprises the NAC, which advises and manages implementation
of the project. Additional participation of NGOs and civil society organizations are to be contracted to
nerfnrm snecific imnlementation tasks.
6.4 What instiutioinal arrangements have been provided to ensure the prniect achieves its social
development outcomes?
NAC will conduct mid-year and annual reviews of performance against annual work plans objectives and
short te  development objectives. NAG will - lso . -   a mid t     ieA.h the ht      o
third party technical experts to evaluate the impacts of the project on targeted beneficiaries and the overall
progress oft'he epidemic
6.5 How will ithe project monitor penromance in terms of social development outcomes?
Trends in the rates of new infection among targeted groups and hne population as a whole will be
monitored through tracking sentinel populations, and through the analysis of the results of the VTC
program. Quality of care and treatment will be tracked through an improved case management system.
7. Participatorv ApDroach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
NGOs, PLWAs, and community grass roots groups have contributed through specific national
consultations. Contracts with NGOs for project implementation, including EEC interventions, preventive
activities, home care, and advocacy would foster participation and ownership. The proposed structure of
the NAC, which would include representatives of a wide cross section of stakeholders would
institutionalize this form of participation.



27
b. Other key stakeholders:
T ne establishment of the Nationai AIDS Council would gather the most representative staKenoiders in
the management of HIV/AIDS in the country. A key stakeholder would be the Ministry of Finance which
would take the responsibility for financial and administrative project matters through tne PCU within its
Projects and Development Cooperation Unit.
S. Ch1ec.nrniF'Rean nilP Iice.
8.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
X      Environmental Assessment (OD 4.011)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Cultural Propertv (OPN 11.03)
|        ~----|Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
I        Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Prnieetc nn TnternRtinnsIl W.terwayv (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60')
b. Business Policies (check applicable items)
+   Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above countrv 3-yr average (OP/BP/GP 6.30)
F        Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP/GP/BP 12. 10                 l
FinSnrnni mannagmi.nt (OP./RP I 0.092
X      Involvement of NGO's (GP 14.70')
l _      _  iOuer (provide necessay deails) 
8.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance witL applicable safeguard policies.
Based on the results of tne tEN, US$0.825 million have been assigned to strengthen tne biomedical
waste management system in public health facilities, including equipment, training, and technical
assistance.
IF. Sustainabhility and lRisks
Achieving sustainability would be an outcome of the project, through the development and mainstreaming
of HIV/AIDS prevention and control actions within the regular work programs of relevant government
agencies. This would be reinforced through the GOG budget process, the advice of the NAC, and the
participation of the Ministry of Finance on financial and administrative matters of the project.
Financial sustainability of the project, with the inclusion of ART will be analyzed. At this moment, cost
recovery is not viewed as an option.



28
Al  _u   AtLu ,u JL-am
,X.isk.                                                  Kvg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____________  a __I_____'Lo_______________________,,_______
lFromr Outputs to Objective_ 
o   Achieving financial sustainability           S          Careful costing of activities and a
clear policy on cost sharing will be
needed before the end of the
o   Achieving good project governance and        M          Pj     up project iplementation
accountability                                          would allow making informed
decisions about additional efforts
needed to ensure governance and
sustainability
l   Maintaining comnmitment to HIV/AIDS as a public J M    J Vigorous project launching
heaith and sociai issue                      i                  wuld be cucted to
motivate participation
|RomC omponents to Oututsp
0   T` PeQ in conunternnrt fiincina              S          C-arefiu! attentinn tn the huidget
cycle will be needed in following
years, particularly during
supervision missions
o   Maintaining consistent staffing              M          The project will build institutional
capacity in various sectoral
l         I agencies, assuring a
deconcentrated HIV/AIDS
llmanagement in the long term
o   Maintaining openness in the face of         I S          ithere will be more options and
|  stigmatization                            I         I opportunities to receive     l
[inlorauon auoout one s inaiviaual I
circumstancesandspecific
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G;. Maiua Loanm Coiditionss
i. Effectiveness Conlditions
a) The Project Account has been opened and an initial amount of at least two hundred thousand
*  Do!es($20,000)nnn has been Aeposite +Uhe-",;
Wxm0 kw~w' VW.UJ 510 U'.fl1   w% .~~0 LUU UiI1U1,
b) the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted by the Borrower;
cI Iui   U  hIdA ueelr LLtly oLaAe.U iII acWrUkUWUL  WI'UI ULU prOViSiOOUS l afcLiUII 3.0J V1 UiIS
Agreement,
i\  __ A----I  A e -   %-   f.0 L ~1-
U) UIV AUiuatl At iolnn r ii or LUCle I[L year 01 tne rroject has been approved by tne Bank;
e) the NAC has been established and its chairman has been appointed;
f) the auditors referred io in Section 4.0i t) i) j  of this Agreement have been appointed.



29
2. Conditions for Disbursements of ART
Disbursement for ART would start after a positive assessment by the World Bank of infrastructure
readiness for expanding ART in the countly.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. The GOG has prepared the Annual Implementation Plan for the first year of project implementation,
accompanied by a procurement plan; and the preparation of procurement documents would start under a
consultant contract soon. The Operations Manual has been prepared in draft with World Bank assistance
and awaits ratification following appraisal and negotiations.
T (omnliaunw.. with Btank Pnlieice
1 . T. he ~   pr  isexpected t- compl, Midth a! applicable  ..n . i...
'I
A~~~ 
Patricio Marquez, Team Leader                 Ar                       Director
Orsalia Kilantzo oulos, CMU  ector






30
Annex 1. Project Design Summairy
Grenada riv /AiDS Prevention and Control Project
[ tlMerathy of Obtjetrlv,s      ___ _e___t_r___ _n_ Indicators_ |__ _ _ a____ _n_d __i___ _  V4t;
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:                        Sector / Country   (from Goal to Bank
Reduce poverty and the risk to  Health Status Indicators (Life Expectancy)  Reports:        Mission)
human, social and economic                                               Nationai Statistical  'line other elements
development through improved                                             Reports            of a sustainable
neaitn status or ine popuiation                                          uNrr, PAO,         poverty reduceion
I UNICEF            strategy (economic
the poor, improving
maVri nce,
efficiency and
effectiveness in the
public sector and
Iensuringsustainable
development) are
addressed.
Project Development            Outcome / Impact Indicators:            | Project Reports:  | (from Objective to
Objective:                     Reported cases of positive HIV infection  Periodic           Goal)
In 5 years, reduce reported                                              epidemiological.   GOG continues to
HIV/ALDS cases by 50%, and     Annual mortality attributed to AlDS       reports; nationalty  pursue WiiV/AIUS
reduce mortality and morbidity                                           and regionally     prevention and
attributed to iiu V'iAU), by 40%/o  Reported discrimination and perceived  II control as a puolic
receptivity of PLWAs in public and        Anecdotal evidence  health concern
g~~~~~~~~~~ o r o-places, and amrong civil ser,ar,nts aLu.     Q-e I nMtiULe
givers                                    surveys (id-term   Economic climate
and at pro,ect    Iontinues to favor
Improve the quality of life for  National response management established  completion)     | growth and poverty
PLWAs                        I and maintained; HIV/AIDS Proiect        I KAPsurves         I reduction;
participation by multi-sectoral partners and                 government revenue
agencies mainstreamed from the           |                  I is not structurally
|                      | ~~~~~~~~programmatic and budgetary perspective  |Budget    |altered
Consolidate sustainable                    a            p                documentation,
organizational and institutional                                         management
framework for managing                                                  information
HIV/AIDS                                                                 systems



31
[ Output from each component: | Output Indicators:                      | Project Reports:  | (from Outputs to
1. Promotion and behavior                                                                  Obiective)
change Identifying and        - Legislation and regulatory reform instituted  Epidemiological
amending legislation and      Anecdotal evidence and surveys on attitude  reports          GOG commitment
regulations, and providing     changes towards PLWAs.                                      to HIV/AIDS issues
adequate new protections for                                            KAP surveys        continues
PLWAs civil and human rights.  Indicators relative to a base year including:
Modifying attitudes and sexual  a) % (men and women 15+ years old)      Project supported  Financial
practices in specific high-risk     using                               information system  sustainability
groups. EEC activities for high-    condoms.                            reports            achieved
risK groups and for general     bJ age at nrst sex in men and women V/0
population.                        in 2001 and 2006)                    HIV/AIDS case      Good govemance
Clinical preventive ~.,te,.,,entions:  0)                                     Gooda governanceu
c) J70 iv-ili 1S+ yealW  u UWl UI mor   Ir'n  meapmors      m    aintiparedcy
2. Prevention and Control:          one sex partner last year           reports            maintained
ld) % Feales 15+ yeI Z   old wih more
VCT, condom distribution, and       than one sex partner last year     | KAP surveys
nreventinn/cnntrol of STTIs and  e) O Anal sex with eondom
TB, MTCT and laboratory and  |      Number of persons seeking voluntary  Epidemiological
I blood bank safety measures.        testing and counseling by 2006     I reports
g) % Of HIV children born from
IW/AIDS mothers                      Anecdotal
|                     | ~~~~~~~~~h) % OfHIV/AIDS transmitted by blood  |feedback
transfusion
l           l                                         |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Parliamentary
a) 'a %of reported AIDS patients under AR  P recorlis
I.Ac   s to ireau    andCe: I  b) Ann-ua-u% reduced hospial stays for   recrI
expanding the options availale   PLWAs;
14,' pro-;A;-           .-A        A----l  I p ubri  nT A- cA D fl %As
community care for persons     d) Annual % increases HIV/A1DS patients'  Project periodic
livin0 with ATIS, and for         time at work                          management
treatment, including the       e) Number ofPLWAs served, inappropriate  reports           I
introductionoptrivleARV drug      settines                         IaIeI
| therapy                    | f)  Quality care norms met, including the  GOG budget
adoption of biomedical waste          documents
management safeguards.
Surveillance:
I                              |______________________________  a) Quarterly reports on the key variables for
I lnstitutional Development        tracking the course of the epidemic,
Surveillance and Management:      detailedby "at risk" groups.
I) Case-by-case connaenmai miormanon on
Providing institutional           individual PLWAs for clinical
a4mangements1U  a,           |    MaUigUIluL Uy JIIIIA41W 4111 =U %&U
development, logistical support   givers
OOOJ.LAW*AOVfl             -J .|Jt(SV c)SI ~UBehavi-o es rsuhW measureA
endowments to manage the          through periodic "second generation"
prniect                      I     KAP surveys
| Providing enhanced qualit and
Ire_ularitvyof_informnationabout  IndicatorsofsustainedinstitutionalIII
the epidemic to improve      |erformance including:
response management, and       a) Regular consultations with stakeholders
patient management while       b) Management of activities through annual
providing full confidentiality.  multi-sectoral work evaluation, programming
and budgeting cycles
c) Sustaining a core permanent leadership
team with national accountability.



32
| Project Components/Sub     | Inputs: (budget for each component)   | Project Reports:  | (from Components
components:                  I              f                                           I to Outputs)
| 1. Promotion and Behavior  |US$ 1.41 million; for advocacy consultant  Project       Government
Change                        services, consultative process and legal  management       counterpart
services; IEC production, mass media    reports            financing
contracting, audiovisual equipment and IEC                 maintained in a
other activities.                        Audits            timely manner.
2. Prevention and ontroi     l NS$2.01 miiion; for goods, consultant  IAnnual work
C     l        services,training and public education, in-  programs and
counti trave;, materis and operating costs;  inplementation
condom purchases; treatment to prevent   reports           Consistency in
MTCT; .  EI pruu tectLLL UI sU pplies. nhuFlIg .o permit
I.TT) I                                                      experience to build
equipment, pharmacy, testing and clinical                  Government
services for introducing nublic sector                     leadershin and
provision of ART; strengthening the                        willingness to
biomedical waste management systems;    I                 I accept openness
training and consultant services for ART and               without stigma
community home care; ARV drugs for patient
Surveillance, and management hcare.
4. Institutional Development,  US$ 2.34 million for office and logistical
Surveillance, and management  suppor  traiping and consultant services, ind
country, overseas travei and operating costs,
}                     | ~~~~~~~associated with project management and lll
C..ULThbu WLIuu F1Lbrb ZiUiLWdC UuUpUFaLIUu
|  | LAN/ WAN hardware and installation costs,
!  _    _    _   _    _    _   line and periodic follow-up surveys.    I



33
ANNEX 2-A. Detailed Project Description
Grenada i v /AIDS revention and Control rroject
Tne proposed project would support implementation oI selected activities rom the following nve
strategies on the 1999-2004 National Strategic Plan: (i) Surveillance and Research; (ii) Prevention and
Control, including behavior modification and clinical management; (iii) Access to Care and Treatment
(iv) Legislation and Advocacy; and (v) Management.
Project activities aim at addressing the whole population and special high risk groups such as HFV/AIDS
pregnant women, children born from [HV infected mothers, adolescents, sex workers, men-having-sex-
with-men, persons with STIs, uniformed personnel, hotel and tourism workers. About 35% of the
population lives in St. George (the capital), and the remainder can be reached within 15 minutes to one
hour by road. This population distribution in a small country makes less difficult to reach target groups.
The activities selected for project support have been grouped into four components:
Component 1: Promotion and Behavior Change
Component 2: Prevention and control
Component 3: Care and Treatment
Component 4: Institutional development, Surveillance and Management
Component 1: Promotion and Behavior Change (US$1.41 million; Bank financing US$1.35 million)
a)     Advocacy (US$ 0.13 million)
iI1e pjJUJeL WUUIU 'UFeULL WV Work ofI L .omUgILI  legal expeIrt, Lb, advoacy NCs..J%.JO, adUU VLVvI-Lb LU IUVdLLeIy
areas of systematic discrimination and the perceived denial of rights against PLWAs to promote fair
treatment and iniroduce legislation prohibiting discrimination and protecting hiuilanl rights. Fur cwnIpie,
if an insurance company can discontinue the life or health insurance of an insured person after it is
discovered that he/she has REVt infection (not known io De existing before he/she became insured), then
this is unfair discrimination and needs attention. Other advocacy activities would include learning to live
with Hlv-iVAiS persons, calling upon private and public celebrities to support miuv/AwS prevention
campaigns and human rights protection.
b)     Behavior Change (US$ 1.28 million)
The following population groups would be "targeted" according to risk of infection, for promoting
behavior change leading to healthy and safe sex practices:
*  Adolescents, both in and out of school;
*  Pregnant women;
*  Commercial sex workers:
*  Men who have sex with men;
D  *t-   -4kC Y
A ersons wi -STs
* Uniformed personnel;
* Hotel and tourism worKers;
Ministries and other agencies that see these groups as their "constituencies" would carry out identification
of these vulnerable groups and action plans. With the cooperation of CAREC, activities on H1V/AIDS
behavioral changes and promotion of safe sex practices by different line Ministries would be part of a
multi sectoral annual work programs.



3A
Awareness of HIV/AIDS risks in the population, positive attitudes towards avoiding HIV infection and
maintaining good health and advocacy for fair social and occupational treatment of PLWAS as well as
preservation of their human rights would be promoted through Information, Education and
Communication activities (IEC)
Information Education and Communication (IEC). This intervention aims at maintaining Deople's
awareness of H[V/AIDS risks and protection measures, promoting behavior changes for safe sex practices
and risk reduction It would he suited to each narticular high-risk group and to each particular intervention
requiring a better-informed constituency. Individual and group behavior theories have to be carefully
chosen t-o support TIC; intp.rvPntionsn  F.C through maes media trselin TV, nries), peer conun eduicftionn
sex education curriculum changes and teachers training for implementation, festivals and other
TM-fl/AMQ pr_ver.tin c&mpai;gh.o -I 1-.a 4fnn-aA der fhe nroaet.a To m&_ r.ass nn.aui TEC'
An V ~ fl F - -.-J'-           -p-- V,,*fi  n-a~.o V  JL&UW  -  p. J -1 .  A'  LIt  lEJO kRtl A.S
activities cost-effective, a careful selection of audiences messages, feedback options, and rapid
assessment or ilmac woul --J e c&liedA -ut. Expl   in'd    ----- ol asses  Ioa cni--- n A social &nd1--
GO~~m~LLL UL UIIjJa%.L VVUUIU UV, C'UI I IU T.JUL. LpILil UI JLA. WVUIU CL   IUa.'G VI.AIIILL~U11 tJIa.IalCI%au
political environment) and cultural traits that may 'facilitate and/or hamper the intended behavioral
wialtguigu ruugu LL . PromotioUnJ of c mIIUUIU Us, aubsLuiilVc, SV.IV sex pndg.uribces aWaVlUe-   UIs U dIpVenILLUoI
of STIs and intravenous drug abuse, VCT, MTCT, and others would be subjects for IEC campaigns.
Public Outreach and Education Initiative. This is a multi-faceted program designed, not primarily to
disseminwate InUfo LIUn b-ut rather, to persuad people 'tO make tne a 'ttltU ' di U a liestyle charges i.t
will help to arrest this epidemic. Cooperation with social services and NGOs will be necessary to attempt
to achieve a societal change of this magnitude.
a) A major schools initiative. Every school and every child in the nation must be reached. Audiovisual
presentations will be prepared and children will be engaged in interactive sessions, role-playing, etc.
Essay competitions and !iTV quiz competitions with prizes and other enticing methods will be used.
Children would be persuaded that abstinence is an attractive and achievable strategy for being free of
infectious diseases.
b) Non-traditional approaches. Meetings to discuss responsible behavior attract people who are
interested in responsible behavior and miss the people who most need them. People must be enticed
with innovative methods. Offering food, drink, and music is analogous to what is currently done with
funds that support workshops.
c) Mass media campaigns. This will be via traditional methods such as newspaper articles, radio and
television interviews, interactive radio (call-in shows), advertising spots and news releases. They
have importance but limited value compared to direct face to face interactive communication with the
target groups. Travel to get the message out needs to be intensive. Activities would include:
*  Preparation of videos, overhead slides. PowerPoint presentations, cartoons, billboard signs, fliers
*  Preparation and publication of leaflets and booklets. These will have information for families of
natients; children, antenatal wonmen- counles- emninvers etc.
*  Presentations to target groups in the community such as sporting groups, churches, town meetings
"flflaOln -lli  n,rrnoa nvreiane ,,n4nn  -aam-a  nhamhs. af pn^mn,artn'   r%.C;1
(  aenrA pubicA), Tvokac  groupsJ, unior.kf fl.ee%tifls, tcflmber of co '.r, prossin
associations (e.g.; Media Workers Association).
Ali Se. pe.u.:,orvrspcagrps such1 as Ca-nt r h T;nl.ue
u)                     IvAU5JJ  JfhIiUl   %JU l V  a.d 1%7 cLO  VVu  LijJ   %U. , a . UIUlFL VI U1ILVI 3ULI~
LTe proJect would  - fance technical- asistce, production of .iformative ard educative ma.rlls,
audiovisual equipment and mobilization of personnel to reach target groups with above proposed
interventons.
Component 2: Prevention and Controi -uS2.001 miiiion; Bankfinancing uS$1.89 million)
This component would support clinical preventive interventions for reducing and controlling 11IV-AIDS:
clinical management of STIs, prevention of MTCT, TB diagnosis and DOTS treatment, and Blood Bank



35
and laboratories control. These activities would be complemented with specific IEC activities developed
under the first component.
The project would support the creation of the National Infectious Disease Unit (NIDCU) within the MOH
with the mission of reducing the burden of serious infectious diseases and arrest the progress of epidemics
of selected diseases which threaten the public health of Grenadians. Among the preventive activities
related with HIV/AIDS, NIDCU would undertake: (i) screening for H1V; (ii) Condom distribution; (iii)
voluntary counseling and testing; (iv) strengthening of the sexually transmitted infections (STIs) program;
(v) strengthening the national tuberculosis control program (NTCP); and (vi) developing the HIV mother
to child transmission prevention program (MTCT).
a)     Couples Challenge Program(US$ 0.038 million)
As part of screening interventions, a couples challenge program will be considered. People will be
encouraged to attend counseling and testing sessions as couples. The aim will be to enroll and test as
many couples as possible.
b)     Strengthening Voluntarv Counselino and Confidential l1l Testing IUS. 0.206 millinn)
VCT has been restricted to very small potential users, due to lack of physical, human, and technical
resources. VCT would aim at helinig nennle to change and reducr- risky behavior, facilitnting access to
appropriate testing, care, and psychological support when the test result is positive, assisting in decisions
abhoit familv imnlicationsof beinf infierted and avnidar.nc nf fuMnnoper  abarndopent an.d bTra=u  of
relationships. The project would support (i) technical assistance to organize the VCT for the country; (ii)
upgrading the physical capacity of public clinics to perform counsel- and t;n        to
that being done by physicians; (ii) training nurses and counselors for the public clinic network and
hospiale; ondi (iii) ann"ir;g -a-viovisal. equiprnent and eduato mater -.-:Is for coousel_ -Al
confidential testing.
c)     Condom Distribution(US$ 0.604 million)
Tr_   A~ LA_   <z2 o.   -t  1 _-  ___1 __   -___I__ ___  -  !-l- - __1_  T_ --  __.  j__   ._ *__  __ _ I -  .1   -Y
iiLes Utila 25 %0 VA Ult bsexually active people use oIIUomib r-guldrly. In orucr to increase condom use, me
project would support the development of social marketing, train peer groups, make available vending
machi,es, aid other strategies to make condoms availabie and accessibie to ali segments of the adolescent
and adult population. Also, the project would promote visible access to condoms in hotels, motels,
restaurants, and oTher puDbic piaces. Each agency wouid choose the best strategy to make condoms
available and accessible to its clients (target populations). Condom procurement would be financed by the
project, and NGOs and PL-WAs would be contracted for reaching hard to-reach groups to promote
condom use behavior.
d)     Prevention and Control of STIs (US$ 0.058 million)
Having a STI increases the risk of contracting HIV nine-fold. Although health statistics on STIs are
insufficient, the problem is of growing concern among health workers and among NGOs. With the
cooperation of CAREC, the project would strengthen the MOH upgraded STIs prevention and control
program through its network of polyclinics. It would refresh training of health workers in the syndromic
management approach. Equipment for clinical examination, laboratory equipment and reagents, training,
drugs, and distribution of audiovisual and written materials for IEC would be financed under the project.
Surveillance of STIs would be part of the surveillance system supported under the project.
e)     Prevention and control of TB( US$ 0.015 million)
Although TB incidence is still low (4/100.000) it will increase as the HTV/AMIS enidemi Rdavannee4 The
project would finance laboratory testing, staff training, drugs for TB, and inputs for strengthening TB
management as a measuire to nrevent and cnntrnl TR, with nprticilnr empnhasis n -lyV/A .S: npatient.e TR
surveillance would be included as part of the surveillance system supported under the project. Screening
for T, B wi1 e.nhane deptPetion of HTV infected patients, and ear-y treatment of  V / TB nfect.ed pati.en+s
will reduce hospital care of TB patients with HIV/AIDS, and would reduce AIDS deaths.



36
f0     Prevention of EIIV/AIDS Mother to Child Transmission (US$ 0.238 million)
With cooperation of C AKRC, the project would support a M 1-CT preventive program and adopt improved
clinical practices for testing and counseling as part of pre-natal care. Data from the PACTG 367 study 2
show that 50% of women find out their infection status during pregnancy, and that about 26% of the
offspring will be infected with HIV. More than two thirds of them get the virus intra-partum. Duration of
ruptured membranes is associated with MTCT and Cesarean section decreases MTCT. Breastfeeding
accounts for 16% of HIV newborn infections. There may be no virus transmission at all when maternal
virus load is undetectable, and this can be achieved through ARV. Antiretroviral therapy with
increasingly effective regimens is now affordable. The PACTG367 study found that 26% newborns from
non-treated HIV-AIDS mothers, were infected, whereas infected mothers under Zidovudine (ZDV) had
only 7.8% infected children and those under multi-drug therapy had 3.4% (with PI) and only 1.1% (with
PI or CDV/3TC) infected children3. Nevirapine has emerged as an attractive new agent, because it has a
very long shelf life, has proved safe, stores well in hot climates, produces effective drug levels when
administered by the oral route, and is relatively inexpensive.
Since there is at least a 16% risk of transmitting the virus through breastfeeding, and since pediatric
diarrhea has not been a problem in GTrenada for long time- it is safe to further reduce MTCT significantly
by eliminating breast-feeding in known HIV infected mothers. In September 2000, CAREC
recommmnded that all children horn to NWv nositive mothers .who have rpr-eivid A7idn-Teonvv Thvmidine
(AZT, the same as ZDV) or nevirapine treatment should, under optimum hygienic conditions, receive
alte-natives to breastfeeding. A!so, a rener.t randlnmaA cUnir.ial frial ahniou   fhi at with. a"nrArnat
education and access to clean water, formula feeding can be a safe alternative to breastfeeding. Thus, the
pro,ecnt cfrao.n, f-r MAACT would.
- All r,-                         £   TT"rT  11                               o  .
A LLAf.e pripe ple-4.uullse:ulg, scIVee  LUI ''v al:l 1RUVpiuig prvgniwIL woulen at week 28 of0
gestation.
*  Provide extensive counseling and support to ail positive mothers and counseling about avoiding
infection to sero-negative women
*  Give Nevirapine to all women who test positive, and to the newborn
* Provide alternatives to breast-feeding to all who get Nevirapine treatment, as part of the GOG's
counterpart obligations.
*  Investigate past and present partners of positive women.
In addition, the MTCT would be strengthened by:
*  Designating a specialist as chief technical advisor to the program, and a MTCT program chief
*  Provision of more trained HTV counselors and contact investigators.
*  Confidential protocols to restrict knowledge of the IlV status.
a  nrnn. _- n-_+.-es-...        -------nna+nmn
=.         1^AILV IL+ xV   AO +r scmein Oaccep>A
-   VI  'UOv{Ws ik1'.d%.i.1LLv9 JV I ill3le AU  O4  EL!  a9pa.
*  Provision of Pap smears on a regular basis for women with IRV infection
*  Provision of medications and medical help to i-v -AiDS positive mothers and chiidren
*  Legislation to prevent inappropriate discrimination against HIV positive patients
*  Booklets and leaflets about H[VY infection and MTCT prevention explaining what mothers can do
to protect their babies and their own health. Information will include safe bottle-feeding and
control of infection in the home.
*  A public relations campaign to characterize HIV infection as a deadly but manageable disease
and to decrease the stigma associated with it.
2 The PACTG 367 study looked at 945 women who had access to antiretroviral therapy
4Ngacha Dorothy M. et al: Morbidity and mortality in breastfed and formula-fed infants of HIV-1- infected women.
JAMA, Nov.21, 2001 - vol. 286, No.19, pages 24132420.



37
This program would result in:
*  A iarge poruion ofi he sexuaiiy active popuiation being screened for iiiv, especially those who
have unprotected sexual intercourse.
*  The results of screening would provide a valuable information to trace HIV in other groups
through contact tracing.
* About three-quarters (75%) of the babies that would otherwise be infected should be saved.
* MTCT could be reduced to 7%.
*  A decrease in the number of AIDS orphans by prolonging the lives of mothers and inducing many
women to prevent themselves from ever getting infected.
*  Infected patients will live longer and contribute to GDP for a longer time. Babies who would be
infection free will save health care costs and contrihute to CTDP in the ffitnre.
*  Cared patients would reduce rejection by families and friends.
Also, the MTCT Program would reduce the risk of some possible problems, such as social stigmatization,
job di....-             .jLA-.V J  1 and  ALL V JJorI31VV iLfpLUc UV,UIIIa fsUOVVII.
Contro: ofL AJjrUUXIsLUD UUU adIUUU oupply VuSZu.U0j)
There are managerial, technical and input supplies difficulties at the main laboratory of the General
TT  _: -   __A   1____ L_                  -1______ _       _. _   I    I  . E   II  .  ..
riuvsPiu, wnvrvuo uri uiuuu supply wuTrugu uln seu Cross nas mamntned gooa standards ior protectmg
HIV and other infections being transmitted through blood transfusion. With cooperation of CAREC the
project would impro-ve capacity and quaiiTy of labomraory testing at me General Hospitai for Hiv, S I1I and
OIs, by financing laboratory equipment, reagents, and staff training. With these interventions, the project
would help to reduce to zero the HVV cases due to blood transfusions and would strengthen laboratory
quality control and blood bank screening for infectious diseases including HIV.
h)     Medical Waste Management (US$ 0.825 million)
Although the size and type of services provided by the project does not pose additional threat to health'
personnel, patients, or the community. The project would finance the strengthening of the biomedical
waste management system in public health facilities, including equipment, training, and technical
assistance.
Component 3: Access to Treatment and Care (US$ 1.15 minlion; Bank financing US$ 1.04 million)
The project would support expanding the options and upgrading current services available for providing
care for persons living with AIDS, and for treatment, including the introduction of triple ART. Priority
actions that would be met before initiating project ART financing:
a)     Care and Treatment (US$ 1.02 million)
Strengthening Laboratorv Capacitv. Maior reasons for I-ly testng are: clinical, antenatal, blood
donor, work permit, insurance and visa applications. Presently, laboratory capacity is limited to testing for
HI4V with E.T.ISA,  hlis, GTonorrhea, Hepatitis B, Trinchomonas and Candida. No testng for Ch1amydia
and other OIs is available. HIV conformation with Western Blot is done by CAREC (in Trinidad). CD4+
and vira! to5ad te -  ic not  ALflL*J*e Lr.a Grerad. I.Jt.ory test;r.g  W!'I to  VZ lL/AM'S 1s -tyI.,
shared between in-country facilities, and CAREC. The laboratory of the General Hospital has lost staff by
9.1.1 A;--  - - +V  -  -.-  .-A  - -t1 A  +1a4   --- A1   U a+ uLmA-
--R W>V^. "Vv J O,> w,U  ~L, OLCL 11V ..Ua LLualsLur.
Tv iLu UI u, inUou.;L111 uo of T., imipiuvu iii-co-utry capacily ivr rusponse momitorng an rug resistance
would be required. Additional capacity is needed to diagnose opportunistic infections. The project would
support hiie const-uction of a new laboratory iacility ai the Generai Hiospitai. Additionai training of
laboratory technicians, provision of additional equipment, and reagents to provide in-country capability in
iiv detection and clinical management of AR-T- for PL-WAs would be financed by the project.



38
Pharmacy Strengthening. At present Grenada participates in the OECS central drug procurement
system, but has very iimited access to ART drugs. In order to provide a supportive environment for the
utilization of ART, the project would strengthen procurement of ART drugs through the UNAIDS
Accelerating Access Initiative and upgrade current pharmacy services. Space would be provided for a
satellite pharmacy in the new hospital to facilitate swift dispensing practices, increase patient compliance,
improve patient education and permit better tracking and accountability within the pharmacy service.
Expanding the Infrastructure and Capacity for 01 Treatment and Introduction of ART. An initial
assessment of St. George's General Hospital infrastructure indicates that hospitalization, laboratory and
pharmacy services would require minimum support from the project to accommodate an expanded ART
program. The proiect would support treatment for ODDortunistic infections such as: EsoDhazeal and Oral
candidiasis, Genital herpes and disseminated herpes simplex, Shingles and disseminated zoster,
Mvcobacterium avium co:mnlex infections (MAC) and wasting dise-ase. Also the proiect would spnnort
prophylaxis for: Pneumococcal infections, MAC, Pneumocystis carinii infections, Toxoplasmosis,
T,idUhr^-ulndi, qnraad nf infpetinn (vnndnnme)
Provision of ADV Drugs. At    a +her are no csor  of ATTV beir. treat -41h +;pl  A VPI A-s in
-- kl- -jJA   01LSdl-%10  f  Lt  SUUl      -.-fl  T   _F-ULf  -j1 C L   L 5  A
public facilities, although there may be between 5-7 individuals under private care. Grenada would
expar.d4 the, provis:-- Of ATDT +_ ce.9!;fie  AMScasswe --llr resourc - -- -- lAvu - perr.its
L~ iLLe U   j I .V 13MJ1  MLJ C-LLNL A u  VIAJ  L'L LIV%J SLL_LJU  %U3Lava WLIVII IILU.IIUiI 1V1aVUUJW CUIU  l111 aOU ULUILUL  jJ FlluII.3a
such therapy with minimum risk to patients of non-compliance and non-confidentiality, and adequate
support services. iluis couIdU raieV UIV, niUUle VI KPLWAs ICUCIVing tU% LU UtLWoVU IJ-19 WIUUiL 18-24
months.
b)     Home Care (US$ 0.14 million)
HIIViAiDS patients require simple but precise procedures related witn personal hygiene, nutrition, drug
compliance, exercise, sex behavior, and human relations. They can be carried out at home when no
complications of the disease have arisen. tHVIAiDSS patients wouid have access to home care services,
which would be coordinated with local clinics and hospitals as part of the WHO model of Continuum
AIDS Care. The project would finance development of manuals, training of health statt on counseling of
patient's relatives, understanding the meaning of CD4 count and viral load results, basic clinical
equipment for patient follow up at home, and home patient care. Specific family education materials for
home care would also be financed.
The project would provide support to incapacitated patients and their families by training them to cope
with care problems such as severe diarrhea, incontinence, AIDS dementia. Material support such as
incontinence pads, gloves, adult briefs, disinfectant, aprons, and tissue should be supplied in cases where
private money is lacking.
The care package would be available to people who are registered with the project and should send a
strong message that it is advantageous to the person with HIV/AIDS (PWH) to be reported to the project
and to keep links with it.
All patients would be tracked and seen in a clinic by the specialist periodically; primary care would
continue to be given by their own doctors and nurses. The clinic will be attended by at least by one nurse
investigator and the counselor.
Clarifying Criteria for Patient Enrollment and Follow Up
The project would assist the MOH to adapt and apply irnproved criteria for HIV/AIDS patient enrollment,
fnilnw upn and mnnitnring andA evauhatinn nf ART Thie may hp undertalken hb the NITCTT Teas.m
responsible for managing infectious diseases, but may include establishing an AIDS Management Team.
Low co     ---l-an  would eI  a .3sed LIU   strong3U  eduUA..GL4UIl  iiAjIaii . U ca.;ed oct,
counselors, health workers, and voluntary organizations working close to patients' home. The project



39
would support periodic seminars for updating patient enrollment and treatment follow-up according to
new findings pulished in tne scientifc literature.
Component 4: Institutional Development, Management and Surveillance (US$234 million; Bank
flnancing UTS5l46 million)
Tnstitutiana! Develonment alnd Management ( TNRtI 1-77 million)
The project would support the establishment and operation of a new National AIDS Council (NAC)
whose mandat.e would be to provide policy guidanceaip d leader and triough its Directorte, ongoin.g
management of the project (see Implementation Arrangements). The project would provide additional
resources to remunerat.e &n in.ternationally recruited Chairperson, ansd to s"pponn, th.e NAC's. onftiv-;sa
the board of directors.
Project Directorate. The Directorate would be the executive arm of the NAC, and would comprise a
Direc.or (who could ualo  be. uthe Chaiu.persn vif UIth N'41A-),  a DepULy DiJrectoLU1 Lag of  all
Communications related to prevention and behavior change management through the project; and a
progra-Mnming assistUan to manage tie nIulti-sectoral panticipaZIon fU agen0cis. Ui ese swnuui may Ub
financed with project resources. The Directorate would also rely on a new National Infectious Diseases
Control Unit wiitin the MOH (see below) for management of aii of the technicai and clinicai aspects of
the project. Similarly, as with other donor-financed projects, the PCU would provide financial
management and procurement functions for the project. Specific terms of reference and accountabiiities
for the key personnel in these two branches would be contained in Operational Manual of the project, and
qualifications and experience agreed with the World Bank.
Line Ministries. Ministries with operational responsibilities for the project would designate a "focal
point" staff to be responsible for implementing designated project activities. The costs of these operations
would also be considered as project costs. The following Ministries have been enlisted in project
preparation and implementation:
*  Ministry of Finance
*  MViniU y UL LAU..1,.LV
* Ministry of Tourism
* Ministry of Social Services
* Ministry of Youth
* Ministry of Agriculture
*  Ministry of Foreign Affairs
*  Ministry of Health
Ministries would develop their programs with the help of the Directorate, according to the needs of their
constituencies, and would submit them to the NAC for review and financial support.
Nntionnd Infectious Disease Control UTnit NIICWITT  The project would finance the organi7ation of a
new MOH Unit with the mission of a) reducing the burden of serious infectious diseases on Grenadian
cnnPtvy b)l arrPetina the nrnorpes nf pndr6mire nf cplpt.edp ,Iispacpc vuhirh t,hrPatpn the nvih'e hpaith; and
c) providing surveillance and a management information system for confronting future infectious diseases
VWhich mayO emerge.
NIDCU would be the technical branch of the Directorate.
The diseases to be targeted by NIDCU are:
*  rU V -AJO aun    UEppouniUHsILc 11ecUioIs
* Sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
* Tuberculosis
* Hepatitis B virus infection



40
*  fHuman T cell Lvmphntrnnic Virus pvne I (HTL.V-n infectinn
Other current national program will all be within its portfolio: National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan,
National TB Control Program (NTCP), MTCT prevention program, and STIs prevention program.
The .TFlrCU w ould be stffas fio!11s: A Adi^vr  a pyicia,qjpn upo1anidA in inf_t nilu dpieases a nurse
coordinator, a health educator, a counselor, a secretary, and three nurse-investigators.
Duties of the Director
a) Leadership of the Unit
b) Management and training of human resources
c) Planning and supervision
d) Supervising the production, storage, retrieval and use of statistical information and records of the
programs.
e) Supervising the contact tracing and screening programs.
t) Acting as the consulting specialist to the programs
g) Advocating for legal and social changes favorable to the control of the epidemics
h) Assisting in mobilization of resource from international agencies for achieving NIDCU's goals and
activities.
i) Reporting to the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and being responsible to the CMO for the execution
of these duties.
Duties of Physician, Infectious Diseases
a) Assisting the Unit Head in managing the clinical and treatment aspects of the Unit
b) Providing clinical services
Duties of the Nurse Coordinator
a) Assisting the Director in the performance of his duties relevant to supervision of staff, maintenance of
records and the education of HCWs.
b) Participating in the contact tracing and screening programs and supervising the efforts of other nurse
snvestioatnrs
c) Participating in the public outreach programs
d) Counseling and educatnin of members of the public, patient<, and families
e) Custody of the equipment and supplies of the unit
Duties of the Nurse Investigators
z.  A ssi+a-na zt clinics C.. infectious diseases (AT ., era thly, Are onprated
b) Contact tracing
cl ssistance iL the screening progrr.ns
d) Participation in public education programs
e) Participation in the training ofotherllCws
f) Participating in the execution of research projects
g) Training of families in the care of disabled patients
h) Counseling and education of members of the public, patients, and families
Duties of the Health Educator
a) Assisting in identifying and preparing materials for education about iTV in schools
b) Assisting in identification and preparation of materials for education of other target group
c) Participating in education delivery with these groups
d) Counseling when necessary
Duties of the Secretary:
a) Typing for staff of the unit
b) Reception and handling of messages
c) Data entry into electronic information systems and any books



41
d) Assisting in the preparation of audiovisual material
e) Handling general office duties relevant to this type of job such as photocopying material, preparing
letters for posting and any other duties assigned by the Nurse Coordinator and Director
Duties of the Counselor
a) Counseling of patients and families who have to cope with the adverse social and psychological
effects of disease
b) Counseling of CHWs to help them cope with the stress of taking care of patients and the fear of
infection
c) Advising to other staff in the program on the impact of disease and methods of counseling
d) Counseling of members of the nublic who mav need this heln in dealing with issues connected with
infection
el Cniiwzelincg nf children whn have nrnhlems related to SeYu11itv zeyiuis activitv and STT) diseae
transmission
f) Assistir.g at plmnips xuhpw. i.fept.e peoplea ar seen
The mun=oRs .inaa*5an.n p. gS. an LL.., ..a,mube0rs vvould ndergoI mte,i0ve ua.imin miniaII3 Vfolloe V by
periodic updates. The areas to be covered will include:
-'L   '        1 L * r !
*   1V VufU viu  lus umecLiUi
* Viral pathogenesis
* Diseases and their treatments
* Transmission routes, prevention strategies and contact tracing
* Screening and informed consent
* People with HIV: psychology, legal issues, social, issues
* Counseling, compassionate care and emotional support
*  Traiinig strategies
Projects Coordination Unit (PCU) has been formed within the MFPD explicitlv for financial
management and procurement associated with GOG capital projects. Specifically for the HIlV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Proiect it would be resnonsible for management of proiect accounts; managing
disbursements from the loan/credit accounts, financial reporting, procurement of goods, services and
wnrks for the project upon request from project implementing agencies, acrcording to World Bank
guidelines. Depending on the volume of work, an additional accountant and/or procurement assistance
Pro,ecnt reonnes wol be provuded f.-o cnnsu,tant servinc th.at coiuld irclu.An ti.a ornnlo,nuet of natmn.nal
contractual staff for the NIDCU, training activities, in-country and out-of-country travel, office
UiLnastructure, facilities, equipment anid logistical support, anld h.e costs of civil service personel.
C'E IL       A                                      e..AlflAt  Trf   .1_ -  ffII"tT .  ---!I
OuU-rcglUna AkrrilngCmVnIL. WuI regioUiia SUppOrL Irom CA &, ue iviM H 's will sutengutenl its
epidemiological and analytical capacity to monitor the HIV/AlDS situation and to evaluate the impact of
tne project. CAREC will also assist the MOH providing tecnimcai support towards the strengmening of
the STI/HIV/AlDS surveillance system, in the programming and execution of surveys and in the training
of staff in surveillance, HIiv and STl diagnosis including CD4, viral load and PCR, behavioral sciences
and research, mass media, strategic planning, project management and NGO coordination. CAREC will
be able to provide this coordination through its own technical staff, through advisers of bilateral donor
agencies, and through its network of regional experts.  The project would use present formal
arrangements between GOG and OECS/PPS for procurement of drugs, laboratory and medical/surgical
supplies.
Surveillance and Research ( US$ 0.57 million)
Current data collection, processing and information systems to support the STI/HIV/AIDS surveillance
system are a mix of manually processed forms and semi-automated modules. Except for the PHILS



A')
module at the General Hospital Laboratory, other computerized applications are not available at the point
of service, requiring batch processing with manual data entry in the Epidemiology Unit. The unrelated
databases are being processed in stand alone computers, limiting the possibility to retrieve on line, real
time information for case management, statistical and epidemiological analysis, and decision making.
Except for limited information available on sexual risk behaviors, the MOH does not have detailed
analysis of behavioral risk factor-, associated with BlTl tran.nti.csion, and no ET-v!IAMS knowledge-
attitudes, believes and practices (KABP) surveys have been carried out in Grenada.
HIV laboratory testing is done mainly in the General Hospital Laboratory and in two private laboratories.
Tu- ron    f-oe   T-JflY A-nQkmA-, Tart farn . -;uA. on ;A-tfi.nC-4n -A. n-noro.f.+A l, f-n froo*infi
physician to protect patient confidentiality. The current coding has proven inadequate for contact tracing,
co-UordUInaLL1U VI c&-e1 AU .3 csUaK1ar.ag11Jmer.t. IV pVos-.ivIe case &  .I-epIo.eU Uy UIV JLaboratLor; Usin,
PHLIS module by dial-up modem to the Epidemiology Unit, which in turn notify the Treating Physician
(ir), equvSLUiF,g 4UUILIUiili uiUui-ii-adiio iu  tUil Ai UbS Case RepUn rOrui. I IIU IIULIII1UII Uo cases L[uLU
private treating physicians is limited to those HIV positive cases reported through the laboratory. Weekly
i-vi/A'iS Surveillance Report is transmitted by dial up modem by the Epidemiology Unit to CAREC.
Information collected from the donors on risk exposure and risk behavior is not currently being processed
or analyzed. Sexually transmitted diseases are reported manually on a weekly basis. Case specific
information is registered manually in a logbook.
The Project would provide technical' assistance and funding to support the MOH and other participating
government agencies in developing and strengthening the capacity to analyze the STD/HI V/AIDS
situation, to target vulnerable groups, and to improve resource allocation and clinical decision making.
Grenada's current manual information system for HIV and STI case notification and patient tracking
would be upgraded to be fully automated through a modular and incremental approach. The new system
would: i) protect the confidentiality of medical records through encrypted technology; ii) improve the
quality of the information allowing for cross reference analysis from multiple databases; and iii) support
decision making in case management particularly for ART and STIs, by providing secured online real
time clinical information.
Operationalizing this would include re-defining data needs and standards for collection and reporting, and
the installing of an upgraded information technologv platform. This platform would be built in stages,
beginning with a local area network (LAN) including the MOH's hospital central laboratory, National
Infectious Disease Control Unit. and Epidemiology Unit and participating physicians currently treating
AIDS cases. It would progressively evolve into a wider area network following the evolution in the
treatment of AMT)S
The nroiect would provide resources for the installation and initial use of the system, and the
strengthening of sub-regional arrangements with CAREC. This would include system design, adaptation
of available software and procurement of hardware, installation, provision of IT snupport and thte training
for practitioners, laboratory staff and MOH researchers required to use the system. Project resources
wuld, I finan.i'a fha ra-nmua; ta c.anaulanf aa,.,rue'nc ,hxno,a Iini'a,,lhr vnrraAa anetirain inc c Pruup-,-
.ouv a in....  fh req.. i site consul_            i.atucture, goods d nd        S
required to establish the system, and contribute to operating costs.
Development and Implementation of the STD/HJV/AIDS Information System      and Clinical
*LVifanagemeUnt IUIormaUiUn Sy3tem !ivLJa,). IRV proposedU bybLVILI woUIU prIVIUe IVr1e LUtVi UUirinaLion
required to activate surveillance mechanisms for early diagnosis and treatment such as: vertical infection
prevention; TBn case management associated to niv; access to treating physician to online diagnosLic and
laboratory testing relative to the management of opportunistic infections; contact tracing and counseling;
response to ART and antiretroviral status; CD4 and viral load and applied history and date sensitive
treatment; non compliance alert, as well as up to date information on drug dispensation, online therapeutic
protocols, adverse effects help, utilization and effects. Encrypting technology would be used to protect



43
patient's privacy rights as well as the integrity and confidentiality of the electronic medical records. The
system would be able to track [IV care in terms of outcomes and costs, ART and adherence to therapy.
Thus, the system will capture variables (indicators) for measuring cost effectiveness, efficacy,
accessibility, responsiveness, reliability and equity of care.
The STD/FIV/AlDS information system and the clinical MIS would be implemented in stages, allowing
the time required to train all MOH health providers in the adaptation and adoption of the information
technology, as well as the incorporation of new protocols and reengineering processes required by ART
and the second generation STD/HIV/AIDS Surveillance System. To integrate current applications with
the proposed Clinical MIS, the project would provide funding for technical assistance required for:
a) Development and programming of interfaces for the integration of the [DV/Case Notification form
with exiqting applications and resnective d{taqhneq includinr PT- IS, COMDIS, MORTRASF. and
others to be developed as the Donor Questionnaire Module for the Blood Bank.
b) Selection, parameterization and implementation of STD/HIV/AIDS clinical MIS. Additional HIV
nft       ,.,J,.. t i p.f-  oh.sic.ans, a t .-s and ur. J blood ba  I +-J a   Will be.,-I -v - A Uu- -1,
automated modules which would interface via Internet, the MOH intranet, or with dial-up
A-:      A_         --_AAA                   Ss   loA 1-_A _  +  1 -v -_   --A A  AL _. xIAAJ1-   A   _  1_: - =-A AAAz _A 
conneCLIULlV3 LV aiivV FuuI., au,u piivaL. pJyozvxallauo, 1WLU1awLUII awlu ULUUU UauI lU NUIVLMU4, Lu IIULIIY
H1V cases on line.
Information Technology Platform. The project would finance technical assistance for developing the
r-   a.. -  n-.w--     -  -       - .   - -   - -  
terms of reference ior uic Request for Proposats krr) for ite tecnnical assisiance in the acquisition and
adaptation of the clinical MIS for case management, and in the technical specifications of the Information
Tecnnology Platform, including hardware, software, training, technical support, operation and
maintenance needs, the estimated cost of these, and tendering documentation to acquire the information
technology in stages as previously recommended.
The implementation in stages and the full scale operation of the STD/HIV/AIDS surveillance system and
the Clinical MIS, would require to add, replace or upgrade some of the current workstations (estimated in
about 15 stand alone PCs) in the US/HIU, and MOH hospitals, the blood bank, laboratories, community
based health districts and medical posts, central drug purchasing unit and pharmacies, and install servers,
office and operational applications, communication equipment and local area networks (LAN) and
WAN.



44
I  LAN (voice,
data, video) &
rWork      Contmunication
s -T                             I   ,Sati,os   .     _S
_MOEI - Headquartersl                                      ll
Epidemiology Unit                                       3
Health Information Office                  2_l
National Infectious Disease Control unit
(NMCU)                                                  4
GeLnerai hospitai                          L            _
Gineco-Obstetrics Nurse Stations                       2
I Iewuuvery %UUHI anuIIU 1 iCuur                         2
Internal Medicine Nurse Stations                t      2
rejuiulu IN P4 u aV aLUIUL1b
PediWc Nu.-se Stations
ICU Nurse Stations                                     2       I               I
1  OA -...   A_                                                 _    __M.    i
OutpatierltDepa ~    besr,  2uj                                  
I Medical Records                     I _____ 1_        2       1               1_______
Ia    b r aIt   f  Ao r             _ A_ _ _._T _ _ _1_  I_     _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I    -     cJu       u < ZV  , y      | I    1     I I
Princess Royal Hospital (Carriacou)
I wealth Centers                       ,6
i TOTAL                                j    7            33      J       4        l
In the first stage (first vear); Local Area Network (LAN), hardware and software for interconnection of
Nurse Stations and in the General Hospital - Laboratory would be installed, as well as for the MOH units
mrfinintin.g in the STDAR1-I/VAMDS  SurveiArlnrce System. The second stage would include the hardwhre
and software of the other hospitals and the Health Centers, except for limited number of computers that
should be installed in the first stage for testing and trainingg purposes.
Th. proect w,ould also suppo-4Ar - perofs s of           att-iudes nd behavior (.-And-oA
surveillance), to inform the targeting of messages for the population as a whole, and of specific vulnerable
gr ou s  D - A_> w_:-X -|1v1>X;+1 - - .   .. .I+A _  +U                 --A   A- +      -  1- -+A A.._1 _
FVJ.UjJ; v I%JJ% *,L IVOUU. VVVUUL uuJaLFFI L ULl %AVtIaUIWaIL D%lV  Ul-13Luir, CuS taIIU au LP;aUI Vq-.y allalybub
and consultative processes for internalizing the information.
Specific research issues on epidemiological trends, behavioral changes, clinical and community
rmanrageILIent of i-nv'/t-uj,',, and cost effectiveness of interventions wouia oe identified, and researcn
proposals studies would be examined for possible financing.



45
ANNEX 2-B. Assessment of the Medical Waste Management System and Recommendations for
Improvement
Grenada Hiv/AJisS Prevention and Control Project
Introduction
GOG has participated in a review of the current status of biomedical waste management throughout its health
services and is considering recommendations to improve the situafion- sunnorted by the OECS Solid Waste
Program5.
Situation
Assessments of biomedical waste management practices have been made for seven representative
facilities9: Genal Hosnpital Drirn.cne Alice TTncul.t4a1, St Aust1nge' to nr.vate h1sntnah !),ruausp T-Health
Centre, St. David's Health Centre, Grand Roy Medical Station, and Princess Royale Hospital. Each
facility wa  ,lae  r st9o    t   r,nplce      n   rcde     nbo,dc!wa. .       angmet
.GiiL   wva3  Va"L&L,uL   niL L%,II %113   .I LW  VIL LL%LA FwJi1L%1%.3 aJu  11J4U  .3.J.1UJL%1.A  YU3~'L~U~1WI
color coding and signage; waste segregation, collection, and transport; waste treatment; waste disposal;
-emp:oyeev U iUi6g; a,nd wU a., managemerUItUL orgar1114IVio.
Except for Genewrau ruopilai, none oi u-. facilities las pulicies Ur pruCe-uweu fIo uiUiUvu.Ia WibLV
management. Written in 1993, the policies at General Hospital deal with some aspects of waste
management, including snarps disposal. However, the policies regarding waste management are not
comprehensive. There has been little or no formal training on biomedical waste management. Most of
tne infornation is disseminated informaily by word of mouth.
There is no color coding in any facility except for General Hospital where color coding is respected
inconsistently. All other facilities use black bags to collect biomedical waste and regular garbage.
In all facilities, sharps are segregated at the point of use and health-care providers are aware of the need to
separate sharps. In general, rigid, puncture-resistant plastic containers of varying sizes are readily
available and in use. Several facilities reported reusing sharps containers. The process of manually
emptying out sharps containers poses a risk of needle-stick injuries to the workers.  A few smaller
facilities also use cardboard boxes for sharps collection and these do not appear to be puncture-resistant.
Blood and body fluids are generally poured out into sinks that drained into sanitary sewer systems. At the
main hospital, the duct from the sluice room drains into an open channel; however, it is unclear whether
this channel connected to the hospital's sanitary sewer.
Cultures and stocks are autoclaved on site at the main hosDital. Pathological waste is interred on site.
composted (e.g., placenta at St. Augustine's), or burned. Grenada does not have chemotherapeutic waste
and low-level radioactive waste generated at this time. Spent chemical solvents used in the laboratorv are
generally poured down the drain. These chemical wastes should be treated as hazardous waste. Expired
nharmanicmtinaks are aenernllv diQsn1vPd AiluutpA and fluschped dnwn dirains (for 'malsl anirints of linuidq
and tablets including antibiotics), buried on site or at the landfill (for larger amounts), or in some cases,
r_.t-.ed +ho tn  ...f-nnfah^ura
B- -tlling is ul mr ailn forIr V WasLt UaUUVUL u Vu ue   Ci Grenaua. iLL.e ubning 1m11eth1os inluCeU:I. LCallILAVIe-
style open burning, open-pit burning, burning in a cement firebox, burning in drums, old cement block
open-Dourn inCmeralrs, a uiaUi M-nIVUSu ulwMwualur, Uunung in l S UV i l uailiiuaiunwi, anIu a  ew
controlled medical waste incinerator (which was not in operation because of problems). Regular garbage,
5 Audit of Biomedical Waste Management Practices; prepared by the E and ER Group, Dr. Jorge Emmanuel; April
2002



46
including plastics and cans, are burned with the biomedical waste. All of the open-burn methods pose a
fire hazard due to surrounding vegetation and other combustible materials around the burn area.
Furthermore, they generally achieve insufficient levels of disinfection; release air pollutants such as toxic
dioxins, furans, acid gases, particulates, and heavy metals; generate ash that may be hazardous; and result
in unburned or partially burned residues that could include sharps.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
The legal and regulatory framework for the management of biomedical waste falls within the Waste
Management Act of 2001 (Act No. 16 of 2001), which has come into force, and calls for the management
of waste according to best practices. The Act requires the development of a national waste inventory and
a national waste management strategy. Under the strategy, an implementation program is to be created
which includes establishment of standards_ renuirement., and nrocedures for management of all tvnes of
waste. The law specifically requires that the strategy "identify methods by which ... biomedical waste ...
and nthpr sperified classes of uwate are to be managed" [Part TT Section 5 (3)(b)]. The Waste
Management Act establishes penalties for storage and disposal of waste in a manner likely to cause
npo!ut:on of the enrvrrnm.nprt or harr. to~ harnan l health The XiA;ist,r of Uaolt+h &ndi 1nir,^n-.n+t is given
the responsibility for making these regulations.
Among the components of wastes classified as Hazardous Waste in Schedule 1, Part A of the statute, are:
clUliCica Wa1s 10Um r.ed1ZUILI ca:  llca  i:Uhpl4Is, mediUctal u.nulWr tuiu clinics; Was.e LIVIII Ul, pIUUUULIU1i
and preparation of pharmaceutical products; waste pharmaceuticals, drugs and medicines and substances
-  -  ~~~~~~   --.~--     1 ! '- -.  *   a..   t --1.--j. - - A -   -  ---  
or wastes contatinwmg viaoic micro organisms or ihir toxins whicn are known or suspecieu to cause
diseases in animals or humans
Under the statutory definitions, biomedical waste is defined as including "any waste containing human or
animal fluids, fiesh, bones, or other body parts except hair." However, this falls short of a more effective
definition; that is the term "biomedical waste" having a broader meaning to refer to any waste from a
health-care facility that poses a hazard including waste that is capable of producing infectious disease.
Except for the above-mentioned statutory definitions, there are no classifications provided for the various
components of health-care wastes.
Treatment Practices
Burning has been the main method for biomedical waste treatment in Grenada. Many types of such
methods are practiced including: campfire-style open burning, open-pit burning, cement firebox with a
roof, drum incinerator, cement block open burners, use of the crematorium and a controlled incinerator
Most of these methods pose an immediate risk of spreading fire especially during dry weather. The large
amounts of partially burned residues show that very poor combustion conditions exist resulting in
inadequate levels of disinfection. Moreover, they release air pollutants such as particulates and carbon
monoxide. If chlorinated plastics are burned, highly toxic organic compounds such as chlorinated dioxins
and furans are formed as well as hydrogen chloride, a toxic gas. Toxic metals may also be released if the
wa-ste includes mercurvy lead, and other heavy metals.
Two failfitipq innindin the.f Gen^ra! Hosnita! take their nathnlnaisal wnacte to a local rCrematorillm
specifically designed to burn pathological waste. While potentially effective, however, crematoriums are
not desigr.eA to hadhe plast.ics (fesprcia!hr hl,nateh Ilasc,tics), .neta  anA other mnatpr;al n.rpnt1!, fondiA
in health-care waste. The crematorium would likely not have air pollution control devices to remove
A -v- --A A-:.-   _+11_ -M_-:--+A .,A__kn      _:.U .,A--                _I__A A_
U1UAliID a.LIU LLU UO, ULMI1 %IJIIVIIu  LI>,CL LU lIU'V.LUII a U pLt LIU.IUIiau.Vd LL.y  rwaI %ILiIVIIUVs 111%skLU1.L
cadmium, lead, and other toxic pollutants. The use of the crematorium is supposedly a temporary
measure until a teatment teciiology is in place at the new hospital.



47
The new incinerator at Princess Alice Hospital, an Evans Tabo Universal Minimaster (Leeds, UK) seems
to be a dual-chamber, controlled air incinerator although this was not established since technical
documentation was not available. While this incinerator may achieve higher levels of disinfection than
the other burning methods discussed, pollutant releases will likely not meet U.S. EPA or European Union
emission limits. The incinerator is currently inoperable because of maintenance problems
Waste Disposal
Wastes that are treated and ash is aenerally deposited in the Perseverance landfill in the mainland.
However, workers regularly find sharps in the waste. Some evidence suggests that the sharps, mainly
needles and syringes, might come from private physicians' offices as sharms are discarded with their
domestic waste. Waste pickers are not allowed in the landfill thereby reducing the problem of needle-stick
iniiiries and landfill workers should also he nrotected from needle-stick inbiiries- however there is no
adequate enforcement of these measures.
Disposal of Expired Pharmaceuticals
Condemned pharmaceuticals including antibiotics, are generally diluted and flushed down the drain while
taUblLt are Udissolve, d1L1uLt, dULU G.L LIULA. U UI VYiL Lhe ii diaiil. IFo ilarg VoIlJu...eI epivaIlly 11 UUi
pharmaceutical warehouses, an arrangement is made with the landfill for quick burial and compaction.
T :---1!A  :   -._Lt __ _.__1 ___ --1 ._:  __ ___:_J :_ -t_1_ __ 1t___ S __ __  M____ __ !
LdqUIu muulCallu.V SUCal Uz C.UUgI byiiup ouu LUILb WV VtuLIVU LU E uHUIV tin Ulu giUUIIU UIU AIuubb UU lb
added. When landfill staff is notified; they then designate where the bags would be buried, however,
eimiorcement is SpOtty.
Recommendations
1he Assessment has provided a detailed. facilitv-by-facility statement of improvements that could be
undertaken in the short term with minimal expense. It also provides recommendations which would alter
the structure of biomedical waste management environment in Grenada health care system; in areas of:
a) National Laws and Regulations: to be promulgated by the Ministry of Health to provide clear
definitions of what constitutes biomedical waste and its categories, specify a cradle-to-grave
approach to biomedical waste management; coordination with hazardous (non-biomedical) waste
management laws as well as other laws dealing with health (including prevention of infectious
diseases, hospital hygiene and infection control), sanitation, environment (air quality, water
quality, land disposal), and occupational safety and health; and delineation of responsible national
and local government authorities for implementation new practices. Provisions related to
inspections for the purpose of enforcement, penalties for non-compliance, and legal procedures
for handling disputes related to enforcement
b) Institutional Policy, Administration, and Oreanization: Every hospital or health care facility
should have a written policy on biomedical waste management and provide for proper
management. The Assessment provides a model for such policv statements and manaeement
c) Waste Segregation and Classification: Segregation, or the separation of specific types of waste
from other tvnes of waste, is key to eff!ective management of medinal waste. It is the
responsibility of the waste generator to assure that this is done. Potentially infectious waste
should be segregated from regular garbage as close as possible to the poi.t .here the _aste is
generated. Segregation should be maintained during storage and transport up to the point of
UU..amn. T be effect.ve-, LLi sa...e 03ste... ofL sereation shJuld apply -I.,  U .e Lun.  .



AR
d) Waste Minimization: Waste minimization is the reduction, to the extent possible, of waste that is
destined for ultimate disposal. Potential benefits of minimization include: environmental
protection, enhanced occupational safety and health, cost reductions, reduced liability, and
improved community relations.
e) Color Coding, Transporting within and outside of the facilitv: Adeauate regulations should be
developed and applied under the control of the Ministry of Health
f) Final disposal : In general, treated biomedical waste can be sent along with regular garbaixe for
final disposal in the engineered landfill. If, for some reason, untreated medical waste has to be
disposed of in the la ndfill nr if treated sharps have not heen deetroyed to the point of eliminating
needle-stick injury hazards, a special trench or cell can be used for this purpose under a special
Marrm pmPnt with thP R5nliM W!1dp Mannaopms nt A,uthewit,
g) Training: A professionalized training plan should be implemented for health care professionals
idather - ealth care nn..cnrel nn-.t -"F.F.op. ate publc .n.nr.,,o+n
Project Support
Within tne project, tme MOH would mitigate the environmental risk of poor biomedical waste
management by forming a Biomedical Waste Management Team within the Ministry of Health and
establishing related arrangements in health facilities with a designated head to
e) Coordinate and Mrogram the application of the facility-by-facility recommendations of the
Assessment. Funding for small equipment as necessary would be drawn from the project.
f) Review and rationalize, with the assistance of consultants, the legal framework, organization
and management structure of the system according to the Assessment's recommendations and
prepare updated regulations;
g) Prepare documentation describing the functioning and provided technical specifications of
the equipment needed to implement a unified waste segregation, classification, minimization
and disposal system which could include the acquisition of new incinerator facilities. The
costs of the equipment and facilities could be financed through the project, and
h) Program and deliver updated training and information for health care professionals and other
health care personnel.



49
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs
Grenada: Prevention and Control HIVAIDS Project
Project Cost by Component and Category
(US$, 000)
ANNEEX 3A: ESTIMATED PROTECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
LOCAl       |     OREU.N      |     TOTAL
|             ('~~OMsPONEK  '     , 1              US$ M      |      UB                USS M
1. PROMOTION AND BEHAVIOR CHANGE                         0 56              0.85               1.41
12 PREVENTION AND CONTROL                                 0.19              1.82              2.01
3. ACCESS TO TREATMENT AND CARE                          0.53              0.62               1.15
4. INSTITUTIONAL DEVFr, MGMT & SURVEILLANCE              1.11              1.23       I       2.34
UNALLOCATED                                            0.00              0.28              0.28
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS|         Z39      |        4.80       |      7.19
FRONT-END FEE                            0.03              0.03
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED            Z39               4.83              7.22
ANNEX 3B: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
_  ,ESMA-fiiI  L|OURU OPSlNDING. -ij LOAN/ 1
Y|Z:1    s   I;>RO* ' ,CSC S l' la CATEGOR1'               COST Y                                 1TQTAL
ICivil Works                                                0.50           ° 45         0.05        90
|Goods (excluding ART, lab reagents, drugs and condoms)     1.33           1.33         0.00        100
IAnti-retroviral drugs                                      033            0.28         0.05        84
|Laboratory reagents, drugs and condoms                     0.59           0.50         0.09        84
Consultant Services                                        2.38           2.30          0.07        97
iTraining Services                                          0.52           0.50         0.02        97
Local Personnel Costs                                      0.2            0.00          0.82        0
Projed Operating Costs (exdusind local admin. personnel)   0.44           0.37          0 07        85
Front-End Fee                                              0.03           0.03          0.00       100
Unallocated Costs                                           0.28          0.28          0.00        100
JAnti-retruviral drugs
|TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                        7.22           6.04          1.18
1                                                                          84%           16%



so
Annex 4. Eeononmie Eva1iuation
Grenada: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
This evaluation addresses three related issues facing Grenada in designing its HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control program: how deeply should the public funds be involved in the project; whether the project is cost-
effective; and whether the project can be economically and financially sustained.
Economic Rationale for Public Sector Financing
The estimated HIV/AIDS prevalence rate in Grenada (estimated to at about 1%) appears to be low compared
to other countries in the Region. However, this estimate, may be seriously underestimated considering the
environment in which the stigma associated with the HIV infection (as with other STIs) and lack of
confidence in the confidentiality of testing may have led to significant under reporting. Regardless, the
epidemic creates risks for the continuing economic development of the country.
The Grenadian economy is expected to grow at an average of 5.2% per year to 2004, according to World
Bank nmientions made on the hqqiq nf 2n000 data This growth wAnild he driven hv new inve-tment in
industry, which accounts for about 24% of GDP and an expansion in services, largely related to the tourism
indnutru .which a_^on,,te for abonut ARM8 nf GDP  rrnaila'c, cmr.npt.itiv. ;n t*hecs aras k thre,anh itst
relatively well-educated labor force and perceived hospitable social and economic environment. Being highly
dependant on i-e ava lahiln- of a pro-dutive G-renadi;a 1abor force makaesl  -oco cn--s of irmo. an.d
growth vulnerable to the loss of key workers and managers. In a small economy, the loss of productivity or
.AuA JL tIsL. ntw m.v uU£s wan ,.avv a s;JLlJvJUi.a4y    ,   mI1Ja.L uu- vuv.uuu.- 4p.AA  -  -  u.cu-
in a larger economy with larger labor and talent pools. HIV and AIDS in Grenada is concentrated, and is
ucliy LU iVIri-iairi conwenuaed ui Ui, pUpUlionUII 4agU 1J-44t WM WmoUrU, UmUa:e kO-to) W1,ich% corULLUIUUS rllousL
to growth. Therefore, to minimize the risks of mortality and morbidity in its labor force resulting from
infLecti  usiseases in gpuari,          icilY m pwFIiulwr, is a J ustiIi4ul pubic seciur roui from1 alr e oiiu1IIli.
development perspective.
Grenada's principal sources of growth are also vulnerable to changes in demand for tourist locations and
perceptions of the climate for business. Maintaining visible and effective action to contain infectious
diseases, especially HIV, and to assure public health would be important to maintain favorable international
perceptions of Grenada.
The University of the West Indies (UWI) has estimated that the economic cost of the untreated HIV/AIDS
epidemic in terms of forgone GDP growth in Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica to be between 1% and 1.5%
per year. These countries have economic structures, average income levels and H1V prevalence similar to the
Grenadian economy. Grenada may, therefore, be at the risk of similar losses. Studies of larger but less
developed economies and low-income countries in Africa place the economic loss at about 0.2% per year.
These economies are much more dependant on agriculture, less dependant on tourism, and enjoy a larger
labor pool than Grenada. However, even if dissimilar, they illustrate a minimum level of economic losses
that Grenada might face from unchecked HIV spread. Applying these estimated rates of loss to Grenada,
assuming year 2000 GDP of US$410 million, and base-case projected growth of 5.2% p.a., the country's
foregone economic gain could range between US$4 million (low loss rate assumption) and US$20 million
(high loss rate assumption) per year by 2004. This is illustrated in Table A.



51
Table 1. Estimated Economic Cost of Un-addressed HIV Epidemic
(US$ millions)
Year'      ProjectedGDP   Projected GDP with 1% annual loss I Projected'GDPwith0.2%aninual loss
tuizt tbecas) a) X  u vo)(dirrelitze wil UibS)  'I  kc) LdiUCTUTIGOWI'3vse
2000 1          A1n1    {            AV,7 { AX         I            A~f ,t  I X
2000            410                   410                             410 Lu V-I)       l
Z.VV            .tiI                 4L,i k-4t          ___  __ ___  __ __  ___ __  __
2002            454                  445 (-9)                       452 (-2)
',AAIV, I       A "7     IAC')/ lAX                                  7A/)
2004            502                 482 (-20)                       498 (-4)
CLu,fulative Loss _                         A447)                         (
a) World Bank estimates, Grenada at a glance 9-18-0 1; for GDP, projected growth rate 2000-04
b\ TITWT UA(ndlicy tho Macrnoeconnmic mnnrt nf 9TV/ATfIs in tho Fealigh ('rihhon, tho Anco nf T.inirn,- mn Tnhnan -n,
Jamaica for rates of loss
c) R. Bonnel; Does HIVIAIDS increase or decrease growth in Africa? ACTAfrica, World Bank
Based on this illustration, Government could commit up to US$ 4 million per year and realize a "positive
return"6 on its HIIV/AIDS expenditure in terms of protected economic growth. The present estimated
recurrent cost of the proposed project is US$ 510,000 (see below), which is well below this projected annual
loss. Seen from another perspective, the total loss averted by the proiect is estimated to be at least US$10
million. This compares favorably to the total estimated cost of the project over 5 years of approximately US$
7 million (including investment costs).
The Government would make a sound economic choice- therefore in pursuing this proiect-
CaQt-Effpetivpnps ofthe Prnipet
niternational eviden_-P nf the rncst PffeP_tivPness of Adff,-ent ca   of nt  i         in Table
B.7
The priorities within the proposed project appear to be consistent with the most cost effective interventions
as judgedA by  ' e evidence. Apa-..    -.AJ-- -C-- -i foLr - baicanagel_L  stU cUI.-U to develop tL11
institutional capacity for continued response to HIV/AIDS (17.2% of project costs) and providing necessary
upgraUmIIr 1UI Uab1t IUaILI-D.YOLVIII UIIaULLU.LUIV, k1U.J 7O0, Ul, pIUJVLL rnIUU4Mb LV   WbUb ltU  J lUlIUW5.
MEC, including specially targeted interventions on high risk groups including commercial sex
workers, MSM, youth; led by a dedicated behavior modification manager: 16.6%
* STI control including TB control, and the formation of a new National infectious Diseases Unit:
12.4%
* Condom Distribution: 9.0%
* Voluntary Testing and Counseling including couples counseling and improvement in laboratory
services: 8%
* ART including pharmacy services improvement and case management capacity enhancement: 8%
* Rights advocacy and schools information initiatives: 7%
o   MTCT- 4%
6 The analysis shows that there would be a positive economic return to the project from the first year so that an
economic rate of return would exceed 100%
7 This table is reproduced from the World Bank Project Appraisal Document (Report 22184-LAC); for the Multi-
C.ounluy r-u'v/PiJjS Preverntion anud Control Program (APL), June 6 200i (Annex 8), and from P.iah et a!; for the
Commission on Macroeconomics and Health,WHO: "The evidence base for interventions to prevent HIV infection in
AUW a,,d m.dUdl If.come GUFL5Fr(;



52
The project also includes interventions to insure continuing protection of the blood supply, and initiation of
home care.
lTable 2. Cost Effectiveness of Various lIntervention Tyvies
ISex worker -I   $TT     I   V^1irntArv 1, Anti-retroviral iP.ti to chrnge I  HAART  I
interventiOnS  management  counseling and j  drugs in  risky behavior
__ _e_  n__ _ s  ___      I   utestine  I   reanancv           . _   _
Cost per HIV     $8-12          $218        $249-346       $276          $1,324
infection
averted
Cost per       $0.35-0.52      $9.45      $12.77-17.78     $10.51        $66.2    1 $720-$2,355
DALY saved                                                                                     l
Efficiency       0.6-1          48            9-11          44            NA
Ratio       l             l             l             l             l             l   _I
Dependence        Low         Medium    |     High    |    High     |    Low      |    High
on Adequate
Health Care
[System       [            l              l            l             l             l            l
The first 5 activities of the proposed project, accounting for 54% of project costs tracks the top 4 intervention
types for cost effectiveness from international experience. The Grenada project is considered, therefore to be
likely to be cost effective itself. Where necessary, the performance of the health system is being improved to
accommodate the needs of the interventions where "high" dependence is indicated. The inclusion of the
schools education and advocacy initiatives are considered vital for improving the quality of life of PLWAs,
even though their measured effectiveness in reducing HIV transmission may be low.
Economic and lFinanciae SustainabUlity
Im   -.-  -       -k.  ~    C.1..-      . TTC4' - '7  I1..  fTTQd' '7 1  :11~..  1. L L  1TCIC' AInIl Anf
Ilie esLir.tdLU IUde.tifLiable cost VI ULV, prUJeL4 lb is P UV. I rillilonl kU0P 7.1 IIriIllUion1 ox wiiichi US$P 4t0,000 is
unallocated, and US$ 71,000 is front end fee). The recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated as
in TaleI C, and amIounLt to US$ JOJ,OU. Of- Uhis, approxuiVaeILy US$P JUJ,VVV Would be iIinCreltHe1nIt
assuming that the current government staff dedicated to HIV/AIDS work is not increased (which does not at
this time appear to be necessary).
Ministry of Heanm 'ouage ifor 2002 is equivaient to US$ i5.7 miiiion or wnicn uS$ 4.5 is ior aaminisrrarve
costs, including most national personnel assigned to general ministry work; US$ 2.8 is for community
services including the current fliYvAi-US project, pharmacy services, and heaith education. Within these
costs, the public sector supply of drugs procured through the OECD Drug Procurement Service, St.Lucia, is
about US$ 600,000 per year. Hospital and clinics account for US$ 7.4 million.
Recurrent costs of the Hi-iv/AJDS project would represent 3.7% of the current health budget, and require an
increment of about 2.3% to maintain the project at the end of the period (assuming no increase in national
personnel hiring). Under current assumptions, the purchase of ARV drugs needed for treatment would
amount to an increment of 10% in the current national drug budget. Prior to scaling up ART, a further
detailed analysis of the financial and technical sustainability of the project would be made. Assuming that
most of the consulting services and training, and half of the operating costs were devoted to community
services chapter of the budget, these would represent a 4.3% increase in this budget line. Finally, assuming
that works, equipment, and half of the operating costs are attributed to the hospital and clinics budgets, these
would represent an increase of 2.6%.



53
Table 3. Estimated Recurrent Costs
(US $ OOOS)
ICostCatfegory I ratHld Crt   I    Assumprtionsl   I kfr.iinwt!t (Na>>dt I vn r.vImntebl nrthnn, 
| ___________ _ |  Project    |         ._|           post pTuje;l           (a)
ConIu fnt           2,75      I 10% of 1 AOL- n  ost1 -0                     50
Services
SeArvicesn-         520         20% orlf a0nual cost      20
Works          |     400         10% of total cost        40       4         38          l
Gooas (smaii) I     765       r i0% repiacements'1        77 I               65_   _
Goods         |     1,160     f  5% replacement   j       58       |         50         l
(durable)     I                _                  I                l
ARV Drugs    J       180          33% per year    |       60  X              60
Operating           440       i   Last year cost  J       100                80
[co sts  _  _  I    _        _ I -I                 _   _  _   _ _      _  _  _   _  _
National             860          Last year cost          180                 0
Personnel     I
Total         [     6,700                                 585                365_
Assuming Government counterpart financing during proiect period of 0%. consultant and training
services; 15% for non-ARV goods; 10% for works; 0% for ARV drugs; 100% for national personnel
and 20% for general operating costs.
The project appears therefore to have minimal impact on current budget allocations, in total and in the
significant sub-budgets OI the lviOH, and should be financially sustainaDbe.



54
Annex 5. Financial Summary
Grenada: IV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Project Financing by Years Ending 2007
I Year 1 I Year 2  l Year 3    Year 4   Year 5 | TOTAI.
PROJECT COSTS
Investment Costs            562,847  1,881,057 1,672,432  854,795 339,570   5,310,700
RecurrentCosts              217,300   268,750   271,250  272,750 242,500    1,272,550
ARTDrugs                         0          0        0   165,000 165,000     330,000
Unallocated                            69,000    69,000   69,000  69,000     276,000
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           780,147   2,218,807 2,012,682 1,361,545 816,070  7,189,250
Front-end Fee                30,000                                           30,000
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRE 810,147        2,218,807 2,012,682 1,361,545 816,070   7,219,250
11%        31%      28%       19%     11%I
IFINANCING SOURCES
ITBRD/IDA                            6,040,000
Government of Grenada                1,179,250
Total Project Financing                7,219,250 l



55
Annex 6. Procurement and Financial Management
Grenada: HJV-AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Procurement Arrangements
A. Procurement Guidelines
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guideiines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and the
provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
B. Procurement Responsibility
Proc-uement under the proJect would be i.plemenet.ed by +te PCU within the  PD, which serves the
financial management and procurement needs of World Bank projects, in close coordination with the
Miisr  of ,alu'I. AIi.. A '.CJ woulu follow tihe pi U%L.UW11L pJoc "UU-Le Ul thL TV VIL i (dJ V D) 1o1 wo.. ,
goods and consultant services. Procurement would be managed on the basis of annual procurement plans that
w     .ould 1 correspond .o UuV aannual WUlfr praVsmI1. 1lle DBaLri wouiu approve ooui uie aiiii-u work program ana
the corresponding procurement plan. The procurement plan for each year would be submitted by the PCU to
tule w  fur app-roval, niO later ithan September of the prior year (Grenada operates on a January-December
budget and fiscal year) following a standard format which would list as a minimum (i) goods and services to
be procured ror tie year, (ii) tneir value; (iii) the methods of procurement; and (iv) the timetabie for carrying
out the procurement.
C. Procurement methods:
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works. Works procured under this project could include upgrading of health facilities,
laboratory space and pharmacy infrastructure totaling US$0.5 million equivalent.  Contracts above
US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$350,000 will be procured following National Competitive
Bidding procedures (NCB), using standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the World Bank.
Small works, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$155,000 , may be procured on the basis of at least three quotations received in response to a written
invitation, which will include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank. and relevant drawings, where applicable.
Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this proiect would include drugs, condonms anudiovisual
equipment, vehicles, laboratory equipment and reagents, and office equipment totaling US$2.2 million
equivalent
Tn the e-xtent nnpsibhle, innftrts for these goods (other than drugs, including AV, lab reagents an.d
condoms) will be grouped into bidding packages of more than $150,000 equivalent and procured following
Tr.te.nation! Con.etiti3  Biddr. ICB  -roedues using 10'-1,ssue A Q+__A_-d 10:AAr-- 7ocu-__e
'~-  ~    ~  ~~5~         F -JrU kx3, Ju.aIU  "Cum1I   u3uUmu JL.UIUJIUULli, _1LJUL4LVI1LZ
(SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
T TC!8O  :1       LAA '_._I  ..:-- kTl  _        -- _-_J_-__L--_*____. ____JI_ -.s_ .
.J jIIIIIUII    ley upr oIrUIW  ui I'4LID p1u'.uU1eb Iau bIuuau Uiuug UomwlnuLs agreou Wila wne
Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less



56
uiaih US.$2J,000 pei couuaI.4, up Lv ai aggreate alIUIIL VI US330,PJJ 00 , imay ub prLcu.du usuA1 slhopp1ung
(Nationalllnternational) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
An amount of US$920,000 is envisaged for procurement of drugs, including ARV, lab reagents and
condoms. For the procurement, distribution and management use of tne drugs, including AKV, iab reagents
and condoms required for this project, the Government would enter into an agreement with OECS
Pharmaceutical Procurement Service. The GOG already is a member of the OECS, and therefore, this
agreement would be complementary to the existing one for the implementation of this project. The
Pharmaceutical Procurement Services (PPS) unit of the OECS Secretariat would use PPS' procurement
procedures which have been assessed and are acceptable to the World Bank.
PPS' procurement procedures. Grenada participates in the central OECS drug procurement organization to
obtain all drugs for the public sector health services. Drugs are typically procured to satisfy "National
Formularies"(lists of types and quantities of various name brand and/or generic drugs needed for the year).
These needs are pooled across the OECS countries and prices for the range of drugs are obtained through
offers from regional wholesale suppliers that represent manufacturers. Contracts are awarded on the basis of
the lowest price for a specified quantity to be delivered to each country throughout the year. An assessment
of this svstem was conducted to verifv its conformitv with World Bank guidelines for Drocuring drugs and
medicines. Drugs would be included in its National Formulary and procured through the OECS system,
subiect to an assessment. Drugs would then be nrocured from sunnliers according to registered brand names,
at prices that are being negotiated in various settings with manufacturers (Grenada is currently participating
in the Carihhbbn initiative to negntiate nri:es for ARV druigs nn a regional basis with manufactirers)7 and
would be proposed to the World Bank (when loan proceeds are to be used to finance the purchase) as "direct
onntrantinno nrwnpir-rmPnt
Seecti.on of Cons-utants. Consulting senvices will b contractda nmAdr this project in flp fo1oiyuncr areas of
expertise: advocacy and radio/TV campaigns, production and dissemination of educational materials,
p.-oUduc.fIo 01 MaLlderis 1fo  schooLJls, uira.;pa  e vaiuatior,u adu 301vva' adaptateio,  o ne Vnd
implementation. These services are estimated to cost US$2.9 million equivalent and would be procured
usiily BsU aS'uudard Request forI Flupub s.
Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS except for small and simple contracts estimated to
cost US$50,000 equivalent or less that would be procured using CQ up to an aggregate amount of
US$650,000 equivalent, and using LCS for services of a routine nature and small amounts up to an aggregate
of US$200,000
Selected services supporting the improvement in the technical capacity and quality of UGOGs iaboratory
operations would be contracted through PAHO acting on behalf of CAREC. These services would include
processing PCR, CD4 and viral load testing, confirmation of HIV/AIDS diagnostic tests and providing
specialized training, for a total amount estimated to be US$ 150,000.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000
NGOs, FBOs, CBOs
These organizations would provide services either in response to general request for offers, or voluntarily as
unsolicited proposals. The procurement of such services from these agencies would be treated as the
nrnvisinn nf rnfiultinr services and follow nrocednre. comnatihle with selection on the basis of consultants
qualifications (CQ).



57
Training. Training activities to be fnanced under the project would include: preparation of training manuals
and family education materials reaching and training peers for urban/rural out of school youth, training on
condoms use, and training courses for health workers, management, H1V counselors, surveillance nurses,
laboratory staff pharmacy staff and information technology. These activities would be provided mainlv bv
NGOs and individual consultants.
Operating Costs. The project would partially finance operational costs such as annual audiovisual
campaign. execu'.ed by r nises an.d vonlunteers, essay com.petitions, screerng np.whnrnr for I4TV/ATMS,
treatment provision for opportunistic disorders, support for execution of programs within line ministries,
D. Re-view uf -r-Aurvwu Ac-uo---
Prior review tnresnolds: ine proposed tnresnoias for prnor review arm baseU OH iii prLAureImerL Lapaci.Ly
assessment of the PCU and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of individual
procurement actions, the plan and budget for the PCU Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by the
Bank annually.
E. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
The PCU would carry out procurement activities and administer project funds. The PCU is composed in part
by a Procurement Officer and an Accountant. These will work in close coordination with technical units in
various line ministries and the Ministry of Health who would prepare technical specifications for works and
goods and terms of reference for consultant services. An organization arrangement similar to the one
proposed for the project is satisfactorily working under the World Bank-financed Emergency Recovery and
Disaster Management Program (ERDMP). Current staffing of the PCU is satisfactory. Since the initial
procurement activities for the ERDMP have already been completed, the Procurement Officer presently
working for this project who is already well trained will take the Procurement Officer position in the new
proiect. The Operations Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard
Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods
procured on the basis of three quotations or shopping.
An assessment of the caDacity of the PCU to implement Drocurement actions for the Droiect has been carried
out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on May 21, 2002. The assessment reviewed the
orurni7Ationn1 qtnicture of the nronosed PCIG within the MFPD and the interaction with the MOH and other
agencies.
Most of the issues concerning the PCU have been or are being addressed, and corrective measures are being
implemented under another Bank-supported project that is also managed by 'this Unit. The risks identified in
the assessment include: (i) difficult coordination between line ministries and agencies and the project; (ii)
lack of generally available written procedures that would be an obstacle to establish clear accountability in
project implementation; (iii) lack of standard bidding documents for NCB and Shopping; (iv) the staff within
the MOH has not been exposed to projects requiring the preparation of large number of terms of reference
and technical specifications; (v) the MFPD's staff is not sufficiently familiar with the Bank Standard
Evaluation Forms. The MOF and MOH have already agreed that staff of NAC would coordinate the units
involved in project implementation; preparation of a Operation Manual for the project that includes a
complete and detailed nrocedures for procurement, and standard bidding documents; submission of
satisfactory terms of reference for the procurement of consultant services due to start during the six first
mnnths of prnjept implementation; and training to its staff on snecific procurement issues.



58
The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE. The project is ELIGIBLE for PMR-based
disbursements on procurement reporting grounds. The MOF is already producing procurement reports for
disbursements under the ongoing ERDMP.
F. Procurement Plan
The Borrower develoned a procurement nlan for nroiect implementation, which provided the basis for the
aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This plan was approved by the RPA and is
in the project files. At the beginninag of earh calen.dar year, the Borrower will update the Prncirement Plan
with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
G. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of the
rPU hld L-CUUlMlCHUCU   lull sUpViVisiUo IlIllUlil LU VZisL Ule i U.eldL t  UUL O Jdt   lview oU procurernient
actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE) the post-review field analysis should cover a
sainpie of not less th-an i in 10 contracts signed.



59
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000 equivalent)
I  .        .          1                                               1~~~ I.
Expenditure Category     ,              Procuremucnt Method             |   Ttltl Cast
i________________________        _____CB      NCB         O tber      N._ El.F'   I __Cos
1. Works                       |          |    0.35_        | .1(a/ |        |      C.§1D
2. Goods _
(a)  -oosohertha,..L abe.   0.70         0    1022 Il3                I       l3
reagents, drugs, ART        (0.70)     (0.30)      (0.33)                    (1.33)
anu conuoms
(b) Lab reagents, drugs,                                    L
A WIMU                                                l  iIf                    h
A.M   u a I IU'UIUMsS                         I    V7A Ul                    UYh
(07)(0.78)
3. Consultant Services                                      2.38c/                   2.38
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I _ _ _ _ _   I _ _ _ _(2.30)_ _ _    (2.30)
4. Operational Costs                                  |        d/                    0 .44
1                   ~~(0.37)                  (0.37)
5. Training Services                                       0.52 e/                   0.52
I          I   (0.50)1                   (0.50)
6. Local Operating Costs                                               0.82          0.82
I             I           I           I          I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.0)  1 (°-°)
17. lFront-endl Fee                                         0 .03                     0-0 De1
TTno1I,la'o*~A               l I         t     ~         (0.03)                    (0.03)
. JnigCated -0-+                                                                 4 Y9 1  .Alt
(0.28)   _                (0.28)
IT otal                     I    U.,/U)      U.          21.W5      0.82          7.2
(0.70       (0.6        (4.72      (0.0)         (6.04)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Foot-Notes:
'Three, quot.ations
b/ Procured via OECS/PPS competitive procurement procedures; $330,000 triple ART drugs
c/ Consultants Services. Details provided in Table A-I
d/ Annual audiovisual campaigns, essay competitions, screening newborns, treatment provision for opportunistic
disorders, support for execution of programs within line ministries, sundry items, supplies, transportation.
e/ Contracts with NGOs and individual consultants to provide training to Government staff, schools and families.



60
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$'000 equivalent)
C ron4;tig,*!nf  l                         9fioGtihn Me-thot                            r Ttal Cost
Services                                                           (mcl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_wuding~
Expe  nditure     _ _ _  _               FB             TerTT                      .B. .     ___    __
Catoegorvys
-  -       KttBI 4-'" 01 '  |1M  I r |WC  Lr'Z; |r        |   ORe      |NB
A. Firms       |   l.30      1        |         0.20 I    0.80 t    0.15 b/                   2.45
,. inO1,       ,I          I   'nI  -   ,n -\n  I A Ir ex                   I'% A ex
(i 1" (     )_____    (0.20) I(.80) I      V D)      I I             z.4)J)
B. Individuals                                                          ii.45                      0.45
(      )I(       )  (         (                    (0.35)      (             (0.35)
Total      L.30                         0.20      0.80      0.60                      2.90 (*)
(1.30)  (      )              (0.20)   (0.80)    (0.50)                      (2.80)
Note:  (*) It includes: Consultant services US$2.38 million and Training Services US$0.52 million.
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB= Selection u,nder  ixed tiBudoet
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices,, single sourcing etc.
N.B.F. = -No Da-L--i-A.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a/ = Consultants for audit services
b/ $150,000 contracting of CAREC



61
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
_________________  US $ thousands                            U 1  JS$ milUons
[1._Works                                 r
>100 /<500               NCB          All: 0.4
<1A ! 0             A     ve (ntations  Nlnp o nt llwUiP
F2. Goods
2a) Goods otuher Ulan      IJ0                     ICB           All: 0.7 
drugs, including ARV,
iab reagents and
condoms              _                     _                   -|
<iSu            I        NCB          kFirst 2 contracts: 0.2
<25            |      Shopping       None (Post Review)
| (b) Drugs, including  |                  |  Direct Contracting  | All: 9.2
ARV, lab reagents and                          (OECSIPPS)
condoms
3. Consultants and
Training            I
Firns                      >50                    QCBS           All: 1.3
|  |   < 50                    QC           None (Post Review)
I  I  A.i;t     |        T P<:        I All- n 1
IA                      X)1     I A 11I'riND
"Iu fV                       Guidelines     CV)
> 20           See Sevr, cklon V of  Noneur krosL ReVIe-W)
Guidelines
Total value of contraets subject to prior review:   2.7
Overall Procurement Risk Assessmenet:
High
Average LXI
Low        [
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 month(s)
(includes snecial procurement sunervision for nost-review) reviewing a sample of I in 10
contracts signed.



62
Table C: Allocatiom of LLozn and Credit Piroceeds
. 41  Pe"diVj9M        ; . |~ Alttuunt4of tile |  Atno|       iljtn'it {afi
( -r                          rw LOtR~        &.T WC  L  Milhol
| 1. Works                        227,000    179,000         100% Foreign/90% Local
.                       ~~~~~~~~Expenditures
2. Goods (except as covered                                E     d
under Categories (3) and      665,000   525,000         100% Foreign/85% Local
(4) below).                                             Expenditures
3 3. Anti-retroviral drugs  |      138,000  | 109,000      1 95% until disbursements 1
I                           I               I              I underthis Categor,vhave I
reached an amount
eauivalent to SDR
109,000, and 75%
I            I                              I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~thPreRftArI
4. Laboratory reagents,                                    9    u
A-- f--,~+ ..--          I      )AQ Iqn    I0  A          95% until disbursements 
- .  Ig           -- -e8-                               under this Category have
under Category(3)                                      | reached an amount
hbove), caresuJpNis U       .                             | equivalent to SDR
hom careIsupplies                     I               | 196,000, and 75%
_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   | _ _ _ _ _  I | th ereafter
| 5. Consultants and Training    1,403,000   1,108,000     t 100% Foreign/85%
Local Expenditures
[6. Project Operating Costs        185,500   146,000         85%
(excluding local
administrative personnel)
[7. Front-end Fee           |      30,000   j
8. Unallocated            I      103,000  | 137,000
Total                     I     3.000,000  I 2.400.000



63
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Implementing Entities
The NAC and its Directorate would be the overall implementing entity which will rely on the MOH to
implement the clinical and treatment aspects of the project, and PCU for financial and procurement
services. Regarding the financial management arrangements, the PCU has appointed a qualified
accountant (who is currently working in the World Bank financed projects implemented by the same
PCU) to oversee all aspects of financial management for the project. This staff member will also liaise
with the MOH's NIDCU for matters of project progress, procurement and accounting information, and
for monitoring the flow of funds to the project.
Funds Flow
Procedures for flow of funds from the loan and the required counterpart contribution will be implemented
with due regard to safeguarding project's resources and ensuring timely execution of pavments.
Loan funds will be disbursed to one Special Account (US dollar account for Bank funds), and this account
will be utilized for the purposes of the implementation arrangements agreed. As is the current practice in
C(renada, the Special Acotnint w.ll be opened hv the MFPD and maintained in a conmmercial hank
acceptable to the Bank. The World Bank has emphasized the need to place the Special Account in an
intPrrnationna!u rw-p1nm1f7Pd  'nqmm.eT'iAl hbnnl due to the nmneronil nrnhlems (relntino' tn v2rio-us
commercial banking services including, inter alia, letters of credit, foreign currency payments and
+...,sfers) _n_roA   in r+thrn. lonl, fnon.^A  ';t.^+c r  tha. Cn^;al An n.t,mnt wase nlanaA ;n th.6
-F-----sss_     raV  V ---   --- z_  F-JV_ W--- '- -  r-- Spec-  Ac m           U_
National Commercial Bank.
The GOG would allocate its counterpart funding into a local operational project account, based on
applupIiLtLlv wdllLt submi.eduby ule MiHv1'.JI. vG-ivenI the  FLl le-vel of-- fi-i.igu -dIer t ep  CJt, 30-
day's of estimated expenditures will be transferred from the Special Account to the project account, from
whicn checks or -uaiseIrs (I-i tll1ai cI-urreny) Wli; be issued LO tuie pruviuvrs f gouos JLU services. ile
project will reconcile (monthly) both the project account as well as the Special Account, and submit the
documentation regarding 'ooth accounts, to the BanK under each withdrawai application and Financiai
Monitoring Report (FMR).
Additionally, the PCU will execute all payment orders on behalf of the line-Ministries Agencies which,
under the project, will receive financial support for specifically approved activities in their annual work
plans. The line-Ministries and Agencies will provide critical technical information regarding the
procurement for services and/or goods in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines, and
payment orders for eligible expenditures will be forwarded to the PCU for financing and execution. This
arrangement will not require additional accounts for World Bank funds, as all financial transactions will
flow directly from the PCU's Special Account. This arrangement will also fall under the normal scope of
work for the annual external audit.
Payments and operation of bank accounts. Before payments for acquisition of goods and services can
be processed, a purchase order or contract must exist. On the basis of these documents, appropriation
warrants are issued, provided that there's available budget. Bank account reconciliation will be prepared
on a monthly basis by the Accountant and will be available within 8 days after the end of the month.
Aecounting Pnlicies and Procedures
Administrative proredures wi!l be in place to ensure th.at financial transactions are- made with
consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring
sytlls   The n   + alreadyi, lhas, a wonrk;,.gA-  of +he ---r-;ons mar.ua!, which isn fin prn6oc of
ayLLUMa . J"  Fu J p I t  "ant.a.Y  agO  a `1`6n,   %`a%J  L. nnno  nu,  TV *11L-fl CO flI I-5A



64
being finalized. The proiect accounting system has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial
transactions of the project, and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting
TIBRD's fiduciary requirements. The accouinting system is designed to he able to canture all financial
information and allocate among both categories (the Bank's legal/disbursement categories and GOG
Rivdgpt nnt .anriPq' -e-nl nrnipgt antiuvitu
Tlha project+ ,v,, .1A  su- bm.i A n,t Ap+olpA mnon4i,l, -tota.ts of a-,nanA+.r-S to flip n -of   of Finance .n A
Accounts and to the MFPD's Economic Management Division in order that the project's expenditures are
recoul-dedu onl LUV IVJLMJLOUY b 4%a we MnusuJ,.
Segregation of dUUties. The PCU hsL  - c  o-rganiizational structure and procCuims established
according to the norms under the Financial Administration and Audit Act (FAA). Said procedures support
an adequate segregation of procurement, budgeting, payment and recording activities, and this was
observed within the PCU during the appraisal mission. All payment orders/requests are reviewed and
signed by the PCU coordinator and by the Permanent secretary (in the MIeeF) betore being processed by
the Accountant General's office in the MFPD. All detailed procedures are contained in the operational
manual for the project.
Budgeting. The loan agreement and project cost tables will be the main inputs for the project budgets and
counterpart (GOG) funding estimates under the Capital B Budget. The PCU will follow prescribed
governmental budgetary heads, and in adherence to the FAA Act, the NAC Directorate will prepare at
least:
*  The annual work plan classified by work lines, with goals/obiectives, physical and financial
programs;
*  the budget proposal specifying the sources of funds. the summarized and detailed
expenditures by major areas, accounts, and specific objects;
*  after approval hy Parliamepnt: the budge-t evxecuion prngram brokPn down monthly, and the
quarterly document of budgetary commitment authorization;
:  te montkhly repor- on budge.A--. execut.io to be issued -+hin5 days a4er the end of eah
month; and
uie quarterly report On evaluation of budgetary exv-ution to be issueu wiu,in IV uays ter -ire
end of the quarter.
Bank account reconciliation will be prepared on a monthly basis by the Accountant and will be available
within 8 days after tne end of the montn.
Accounting. Accounting and budgetary records would be maintained in accordance with the GOG's
procedures, under the FAA Act and which are satisfactory to the World Bank. However, for World Bank
monitoring purposes the PCU will report on detailed information at the project level, specifically the
deposits to the special account and the expenditures classified by activity/ subcomponent and
disbursement category.
Safeguard over assets. Assets acquired by the project will be in the custody of the respective institutional
departments of the MOH and other Agencies (where applicable). For the proposed project, the PCU will
keep detailed subsidiary records of plant and equipment acquired. The amounts in this register will be
reconciled monthly against the respective accounting balances. At least one annual physical inspection
will be undertaken by PCU staff, preferably with the participation of staff from the external auditors and
the Auditor General's Department



65
Audit arrangements.
Annual project financial statements would be audited in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference (TORs) both acceptable to
the World Bank. In addition to the audit opinions on project financial statements, Special Accounts and
FMRs, special purpose reports will be required to deal specifically with the observance of the
procurement and consultants services provisions of the Loan Agreement. The memorandum on internal
controls ("management letter") will be issued after semi-annually.
The PCU will annoint the auditors (for both the annual and snecial audits) by loan effectiveness, with an
annual contract to be renewed during the first quarter of each subsequent year. The audit would then
follow the prnvisions of Section 4.01 (h) (ii) of the Loan Agureement (Janmary 1st thrmouh December 31st
of each year).
The PCU will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and recommendations contained in
The tal beo    -a1e udtri-mns
* ,0A.~A+ 'annkt **-t n+  1- .-A             ..-..* fl~fl 1*ttlIAI -% ntnnnint-lfl +n *1,aflni
Inc~ LaULV, UVIIJW OLUuaiLUC IWA' atlUiL 1V.ULI V'MVILLO.
Project financial statements           5 months after the end of the reporting period
SOEv                                   ^    .ae as
Special Accounts                       same as above
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government and IBRD's
w, *.i+---   --A C:A- ._
monitoring -" fiduciary purposes.
ULI a MUIUUUly UaZO (a;L I-UbL), U'eru PCU  Will p.-IVpa  UiV j)IUJVAA p   ULaLUMenIL of EX:AJpUUreLUi, a Lu.UUI
classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by fnancing source and disbursement category.
iLue expendunus wouiu ue Lumpuu to tii prvu[jwwu fizguzv per Luc quarwrly uuuge-s pprepnu a8
indicated in the Budgeting section above. This report is submitted to the MOH 's and the MFPD's
Economic Management Division
in addition to tme FMKs, the monthly financial reports will include the Speciai Account Reconciliation
Statements. Any difference in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial statements
must be clearly explained. The project financial statements, along with the physical progress and
procurement sections of the FMRs, wili be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and will be
submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter. The contents of the FMRs have
been discussed, and the formats of the reports will be finalized by loan negotiations.



06
Risk Analysis
IRisk                            I Risk Rating  I Risk Mitiuation Measures
Inherent risk         I _                                                l
l_______l_______fnancial unit (PCU) and appointment of
Entity/project specific         Negligible
C-onitrol rs
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___   N eg,:igible I
Funds Flow: counterpart funds  Moderate      Approval of budget units prior to
I_commencement of fiscai year.
Staffing             Moderate      Extend contract of experienced FM
personnel; additional clerical staff to aid
I   ..               I             I ~~~~~~~~~~financial officerl
Accounting policies and     Negligible  l                   c
procedures            I            I
External Audit          Negligible    Appointment of auditors before
effectiveness; semi-annual intemal
control.
Reporting and Montorin      I Negligible   Bank support to generation of flexible
I________________________________ I ____________I draft FMRs prior to effectiveness
Strengths and Weaknesses
The PCU has an adequate fnancial management system. However, its contributions to the project's
implementation and monitoring will be in effect when additional staftf are assigned to the project, the
updated procedures, controls and systems are under the organizational arrangements described previously
are finalized, and arrangements for producing certain information relevant to the Bank are in place. The
Action Plan (below) aims at addressing these issues.
Financial Management Action Plan
lAction                     IResponsable Entdtv          Completion Date
I1. Finalize financial management  PCU                  Before effectiveness
section of the Operational Manual 1
2. Open Special Account     PCU                         Before effectiveness
3. Appoint the external auditors  PCU                   Before effectiveness
4. Submit draft Project Monitoring PCU                  Before effectiveness
I Reports (FMRs).           I                           I                           I
15. Submit first FMRs       |PCU                        145 days after the end ofthe quarter
I                           I                           I in which effectiveness takes place I



67
Annex 7: Management Organization
Grenada: HfV-AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Project Governance and Reporting Structure
The Public Interest                              Legend
_Ci i-                  ~~~~~~~1. Political Accountability
1 1                            2. Project Accountability
F                    1                  3. Executive Accountability
J  C2hinet   |                     4. Policy, Priorities
Pol.cyU--A   jul                   Prime Min-h - _  
|ulY A   AOffice
]2r
|  National AIDS Council 
I          Chairperson*
_ _ f 3t_ ..... 1~~~~~~4                          -   -... _--__--_-_
|  Directort 
5. Project Proposals
Director/CEO*                            6. Project Assistance
7.AccountabiDity
Deputy Director,                         8. Resources
Communications                            9. roject Services
Program Assistant
Executive Level                   Deputy Director,
Technical
(NIDCU)**
FM and
Procurement
(PCU/MFPD) ' 
rarticipanon Minisri:es (rocal roints)
NGOs, FBOs, CBOs           I
e9;
Target Groups and Constituencies
*May be the same person
**Existing Agencies contributing as staff units



68
A naex 0 Pro.jec* Dh -cwing Bu.Adt and chadAleA
_JVIVId1Ua. 1711 V -P1LJ_.3 rI_VQiiLiUon aLU %,UIIU U1 I IUVJ~L.A
I i^jfx    ;iiigT, 'i'inua4ble and Btidget
Key.Dates
_      _     _    _    _     _    __Ti etable  St_        _            _     _     _     _   
LENP        Concept Review Meeting           March 26, 2002          March 26, 2002
LEN1?      RVP/ROC/OC Sign off
LENP       lPID to PIC date
LEN?        IDepart Preappraisal
LEN]?       Decision Meeting                 March 26, 2002          March 26, 2002
LENA        Authorize Appraisal/Negotiation                         I
LENA        Update PID to PIC                May 7, 2002
LENA        EA received date
LENA        Depart Appraisal
LENN        Invitation to Negotiate
LENN        Start Negotiations               May 28, 2002            May 28, 2002
LENN      I Board Presentation               July 12. 2002
| Completion Note                l                        l                       l
Name                                        Speci*lty
1D.fri,;- lAkr--o                      ITAom ToaAar Tr Pcf UJpal+h nrle
Robert Crown                     _      Institutional Development and Operations Specialist
Ilviarcelu Osoriu                      Iri-uMVIRUIR a SpeclisUtIi
Marta Ospina                            Procurement Specialist
Rayeev Swami                             inancial Management Specialist
Edward Daoud                            Disbursement Specialist
Mariana Montiel                         Legal Counsel, LEGOP
Maria Colchao                           Project Assistant
| MryDowling                            |Project Assistant 
Oscar Echeverri                         Public Health Consultant
I Alberto Gonima                         Management Information Systems, Consultant
I 1i11mn Pesantez7                           rtn.pra1it , niiltnnt
Government of Girenada Team. Prime Minister of Grenada Dr. the Honorable Keith C. Mitchell; the
Hon. Minister of Health and the Environment Dr. Clarice Modeste-Curwen; The Honorable Minister of
Finance Anthony Boatswain; Ms. Eunice Sandy-David, Acting Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Health; Mr. Mervin Haynes, Head of Projects and Development Unit, Ministry of Finance; His
Excellency Denis Antoine, Ambassador to the United States; Ministry of Health personnel Dr. Phillip
Finlay, Head of the National Infectious Diseases Control Unit, Mr. Dave Duncan, Health Planner; Ms.
Janet Sylvester, Coordinator of the AIDS Programme; Mr. Ian Marryshow, Counsellor; and Ministry of
Finance personnel, Mr. Garth Taylor, Procurement Specialist, Joanna Moore, Financial Comptroller; and
Marguerite St. John, Consultant.
Peer Reviewers: Salim Habayeb (SASHD); Kundhavi Kadiresan (LCOQE).



A    fA ~l   V  ---  ~-  ---   T%'U.
U   ,nMM  UVA,; JUOrUICUOnfUI UUD IJ I EMW C
'.rr:naua: ni v -^iL±u rTrivenuou aind 'until riujiac
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation and Procurement Plan, May 2002
Draft Operational Manual, May 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Osorio Marcelo, Procurement Capacity Assesment, February 2002
Swami Raieev- Financial Man_,ement Canacitv Assesment Anril 2002
(r A*h.r lUihIinernnhv
C. OteBiL     .h
Ministry of Health -Grenada: Communicable Disease Program. Sub-Program(1): STDs/HIV/AIDS
(0A01).
Ministry of Health -Grenada: The Organization Structure for HIV/AIDS Control in Grenada (2001)
kivLUXUMU oJfLLIU1 *J1UI.IUO. 1Jbv:     WA... oAMM&uJ .   Dfu UvLa U Vi IUV ALL V I rLJL7 A w eAJ5If l
(2001)
IVUIU U  1 UL rMaUI --JIUIWJU. E'Li V IIi.LJ.aJ3I~ 15. IV1U1LU-bV%A[U1 1%V,5JUI1W W=VlUiUMIPJUL OUUL4.LUI~ VI ,.WI)
Ministly of Health -Grenada: Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control (2001)
MiMisiiy of Healith -Grenaa: Proposal for tue Formation and openuion of a Unit to run National
Programmes for serious infectious Diseases. (2001)
PAHO: Grenada: Basic Country Profiles, Summaries 1999.
Ministry of Health -Grenada: National Tuberculosis Control Program Manual (2002)
World Bank: Aide Memoirs of Missions on October 26-28, 2001; January 9-ii, 2002 and January 28-
30, 2002 February 18-20, 2002; March 18-20, 2002
69



70
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credib
Grenada: HIV-AIDS Prevention and Control Project
cAS Arnz 3. 
ao  Dat Wat)
Closed Pre    2
rat, OhbwDt (Aw)   La
of wtflls, nfti  fe,  0.00
Total teWudtesM5   1tt t
do tll, an pt   0.48
Tdal Otebmd (Aeon * Cbed  14.24
ofwI has ken inpOP  0.4
Totld UObumed (Ad)  t'.79
To.- tad--ml- M ._ _  OA.15
Total UrdobflOised (is  Closd  11.94
__                                   Uupschd and AlOI
Pt-
Po  ID             Pro  N.III        W   E    PT  OM     A GRANT C.,., StAIeL  a. _f,t
P083022            GD Gmmed CmrMuag.     8   2001  6.06 &01          7.966396  -1.9
P077682            Gimeaf Emrgaicy Reowr 6  6  2002  1.14 LO6         3620
^e    Z lP-udf e.2 ?.                                                11.a44    = e
CAS Annex B8 ki-Cj for Girenaaa
Grenada
tatemient nf 1T  's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Annmoval Comnanv Loan Rauitv Ouasi- Partic Loan- Eqitv Quasi Partic
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Qasi Patti
2002 Bel Air   1000      0  1000     0
Total Pending Commitmen 1000     0   1000     0
70



71
Annex        i: Countiry at G¢an¢e
Grenada: HIV-AIDS Prevention and Control Proiect
Grenada at a giance
Letin    Uppor-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               America    middle-
Grenada     & Carib.  Iricome      Dovelopment dInmond°
2000
Population, mid-yErn (mfltons)                            0.10       518        847                   Life esaectancv
GNI per capita (Atlfas mathod, UJS5)                     3,770      3,680     4.820
GNI (As'as mah.od, USS bI/Ions)                           0.37      1,895     2,988                         T
Avra^-o annual growh, 1^-^00T
Populaton (%)                                              0.7        1.8       1.3                       IK
Labor force M)                                               .        23        2.0      GN                                Gross
Poverty (% of populatlon belownndonolpova,rty.na)
Uiban populaiion M of iPotp pu/a/on)                       38
LUe erpectancy at brlh (yetrs)                             72         70         89
Infant mortality (par 1,000 Eva bhfirs)                    13         30         28
Ch"d malnutrition ,  ofch C.il.dr.n. u.^d.r5,               ,,         9          ,            AwCa Irsourc .m        o   s
Acceas to an Improved water aograC (5S of popula3'0n)       94        85         87
Ititeracy I Of OpopU/Qton age 15+)                       '.           12         10
nrmen nrrnrv ennrolmnent M nf sohwAam nonl aom)           aint       1          1?7             GmnadaI
Male                                     ,                           ..       103           -    Uper-fmltodlncow a gr^o
Female                         '                                              105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG,TERM TRENDS
1990      1990       1899      2000           r      th
GDP (USS bfions)                                0.Oi;     022        03-       0.4i     I Economicr_os
Grosa domestic InvesemanthGDP                   27.1      38.1       35.7       388                       Trade
Exports of goodsan servIces/GDP                 47A       42.4       82,4      80.8
Groas _rn_Dst/C aDvingsaGOP                     -5 0      17.8       28.0      24 i
Groms natonal aavinga/GDP                       21 7      23.9       27.7      23 0
Current account balance/GOP                     -5.4     -12.1       -8.0     -156 8
Interest paymonts/GDP                            0.8       05         0.5    Q    .8  w          _                     Investment
Total deb/GDP                                   19.3      464        40.1      47.8
Total debt service/exports                       5.8       2 9        3,4        3.8
Present value of debtGDP                                             335           .
Prsasnt value of debtlexporta                     ..        ..       48.8
Indebtedness
(avorega onnual growth)
GDP                                    81        3.4      10.1        8.5        5.2         .      G,e noda
GDP p.,"5                               se       2.9       9.2        5.4        eA
Exports of goods and services          8.4       72       354         3.8        5.5     _
STRUCTURE of tho ECONOMY
`1980     1990       1999      2000      [Growth of Investmcnt and GDP I%)
AgrIculture                                     24.7      13.4        81         7 7
Industry                                        13.1      18 0       22 7      23.9   l   o
Manufacturlng                                  38        6.8        7.3        7.6       .\_
Services                                        82.2      88.8       89.3      88.3       a       o_                            o  |0
Private consumption                             84.8      60.7       57.3      81.8                    ess
Ge0_1a governmen cAonsumption                  2-n 2A       1 -.4. a4 3A 7   
Imports of goods and se4ces                     79 4      82 8       70.1       75.3    _                                          IW
(avereD g annual g180-80 190                              0.00      1999       2000      Growth of cxpoetsand Impeoo(%)
Agriculture                                     -0.8      -1.2       10.0        0 9     4
indus8y                                          7.5       6.2        9        14.0        + 
Manufacturing                                 12.1       82        12.1       13.8
Services                                         88        3.5        8.8       4.8      15        /
Privateconsumplon                                25        35       -11.4       148 6
General govemment consumpIlon                    8.9      -0.5        02         38     15
Gross domestic Investment                        8.3       4.2        5.1       152     |        *     -rta      -wIrnpoft
Imports of goods and soerces                     2 8       5.8        2 3       14.5
Note. 2000 date are preliminary esUmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared wth Its Income-group average If data aro missing, the dlamond wIll
be Incomplete
71



72
Grenada
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Doomestc prke1980                                     1990       1999     2000     IIn.ton I%)
(6 change)
Consumer prices                               21.0      2.8       1.0       3.5
ImplIdt GDP de8ator                            7.2     -1 4       0.7       2.0                                       A   ,
Government finance                                                                   t                                      I
(96 of GDP, InchLdes cunent grants)                                                 o                                       I
Current! rvnue                                  .      24.3      28 2       89R.R          95    as    97     go    99
Current budget balance                           ..    *2.6       4 8       8.0             - -;DP deolator _--CPI
Overall surplus/defict                          .     -12.0       -84 -4.1
TRADE
___S _M/Iibnt)                              1980     1990       1999      2000     Export andImportlevels(US$ iV4l.)
(tJS1 mil/lios5-
Total exports (fob)                             .       26         74        84     so
Cocoa                                         ..       ..        15        12
Bananes                                                           3         5
Manufacturs                                   ..         ..      49        60
Total Imports (cdf)                            ..       ..       206      243                      *       m     l* *    i
Food                                           .        .        37        39     100
Fuel and energy                                                  I 9       24
Capital goods                                                    so        75       o                                    I
Evert pie index (1995=10)                                         115       1 t 8                  0     0    D    g    OD
Import prIce lndex (1995=100)                   ..       ..        9a       95     |EIpolt                   aimports
Term of te (1995100)                            ..       ..       117       122
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990       1999     2000     |Cuereteccount blancetoGDP(%)
Exports of goods and servIces                  40      108        236      250       0
Impcrtsofgoodsandtservlces                     68      148        2e5      309
Resource balance                              -27       -40       -29       -60
Net Income                                      0       -12       -29       -33     .1 .I*             I-    -
Net current transfers                          22       26         28       29                     * I       -
Current account balance                        -5       -27       -30        4
FInandng Items (net)                            5       29         34       71
Changes in ne. reserves                         0        -2        -4        -7
Reserves Induding gold (USS VilIons)             .       - ..      51       58
ConversIon rate (DEC, locaslUSS)               2.7      2.7       2.7       2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999     2000
(USS ,rib7ons)                                                                      Composition of 2000 debt (US1 ntiAl.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            16     103        152       198                                             1
IDA                                           0        6          9        10                    22     10
Total debt service                              2        3          9        10    |                                        I
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0                                     4
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                                     4 84 s
Cornp-sillnn of no.--ou  ° flow
Offidel grants                                1        4          2        ..           81                                I
Ofticlalcreditors                             1       13          9        11                         -          .
PdvEte redithe                                -1       0         -1       §7
Forelgn direct Investment                     0       13         43         ._
Portfolio eBuItk                              0        0          0 gr
Dsburements                                   0        1          2        2      B- IO     0- Other etlaXtra  F - PIvate
ina,w I3yrnfiw e                                       0          0        0      c=                          ^= Shr
Net ftows                                     0        1          2        2
Interet payments                              0        0          0        0
Not Imn s.em                                 A0        4          0        2
Development Economks                                                                                                  918/01
72






MAP SECTION






I BR D 20301
|  f1°5W                   610466'W                   6                           61°5 'Iw
L12015'N                                                    G           Iq  A  D     - A   12015'N1
2000 and Over
|___~~~~~ Parbh Boundaries
|~~~~~ ecapital 
012010'N    *   Airport        (G>                  g4                    Ai.10rN
C               __                                  Ii                 /1 .eX |k 
1    12005'N%^n/ 12005'Ni
M|n ad ST.GEORGE'                            Ids                     1°3
rG  Caprintah         7,             ,, oCARRIACOU
n-i  A-._P-
rtr¢lA!e-:r ~ ~ ~ ~  __                     an lie      () t
J;bin*8fXll6-HJy(t  \   ,\  <                   | ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IHllsborouo |
POINT SALINES            S C
INTERNATIONAL AIRPO .-.          p  )   \\                                           '
-12°OON  piLial
rr U                                  Co,n        Cm=
~~ _rw f _ ft 2 4r dw ~~~~~~~Milesetfl
61050                                  61040'W                             ------
JULY 1986









IMAGING
Report No.:       24174  GRD
DAr%t-



