                   Grenada HIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlProject
                            -
           Proposed Amendment to the Loan 7140-GRD and Credit 3706-GRD
                          Followingthe passageofHurricane Ivan


1.  This proposal seeks the Executive Directors approval of an amendment of the Loan and
    Development Credit Agreements for the Grenada - HIV/AIDS Control and Prevention
    Project (Loan 7140-GRD and Credit 3706-GRD). The purpose i s to reassign undisbursed
    credit and loan proceeds to address new challenges in the prevention and control of
    HIV/AIDSemerging inthe aftermathofHurricane Ivan.

2.  The HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project (Loan 7140-GRD and Credit 3706-GRD)
    was approved by the Board on July 25, 2002 for an amount o f US$6.04 million (US$3.0
    million loan & SDR 2.4 million credit) to assist the Borrower in controlling the spread of
    the HIV/AIDSepidemic through (a) the scaling up of programs for the prevention, care and
    control o f the epidemic, targeted in particular to HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups; (b) the
    heightening o f the awareness with respect to HIV/AIDS infection and prevention amongst
    the Borrower's population; and (c) the strengthening o f the institutional capacity o f the
    MOH, other related government agencies and civil society organizations to ensure the
    effectiveness and the sustainability o f the Project.

3.  On September 7, 2004 hurricane Ivan hit Grenada creating additional challenges in the
    prevention and control o f HIV/AIDS. More than 90% o f the building structures sustained
    some form o f damage and more than 10% o f the population lives and will live in the
    foreseeable future in shelters. Large areas of the country remain without electricity. These
    living conditions have rendered the general population and, in particular, people living in
    shelters vulnerable to HIV.

4.  The Borrower's Ministry o f Health (MoH) reports that the majority of people living with
   AIDS (PLWA) does not have the physical and financial capabilities to cope with the
    damage brought to their homes and households. Food security and price inflation o f basic
    food provisions remain critical issues and PLWA face tremendous challenges to meet their
    increased nutritional needs. Water damage in the central hospital and central medical store
   destroyed the stock o f antiretroviral drugs and caused the disruption o f the antiretroviral
   treatment o f PLWA.

5. The hurricane caused substantial damage to the health service delivery infrastructure that is
   critical for the implementation of activities under the HIV/AIDS project. The island's
   central laboratory and the second largest hospital were completely destroyed. The central
   hospital, other secondary care facilities, the central medical store and all health centers
   sustained various degrees of damage. The M o H estimates the costs o f reconstruction and
   rehabilitation at US$10 to 12 million.

6. The Government of Grenada (GoG) requested the reallocation o f US$1.3 million into a
   new disbursement category for a new component o f the Project (Part E: Emergency
   Response to Hurricane Ivan). Said component will finance: (i)the establishment and
   operation o f the N A C Directorate as needed for its expanded role for the prevention and
   control o f the epidemic and difficult working conditions post Hurricane Ivan; and (ii)the
   strengthening the Borrower's capacity to respond to the additional challenges in the
   prevention and control o f HIV/AIDS caused by Hurricane Ivan, by: (i)assessing the
   damages to the Borrower's health service infrastructure, developing and managing the
   implementation o f a reconstruction and rehabilitation strategy for the health service

   delivery infrastructure and rehabilitating and reconstructing facilities critical for the
   implementation of Project activities; (ii)designing and implementing information,
   education and communication campaigns and condom distribution strategies attending the
   populations rendered more vulnerable to HIV post Hurricane Ivan; (iii)supplying people
   living with AIDS with drugs, food and materials required for the rehabilitation of their
   homes.

7. In order to accommodate the request of the GoG,the following modifications to the Loan
   and Credit Development Agreement are necessary:

         0   Article I11o f the Loan Agreement: the revised version incorporates the National
             AIDS CouncilDirectorateas an agency criticalfor the execution ofthe project;


        0    Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement: the revised version introduces new
             disbursement categories (6b and 7), reflects the requestedreallocations o f Loan
             (US$636,600) and Credit (SDR 525,200) and increase all the disbursement
             percentages to 100% as per the recently approved financial parameters;

        0    Schedule 2 o f the Loan Agreement: the revised version includes the additional
             development objective and the new project component with the activities to
             achieve the objective;

        0    Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement: the revised version establishes more flexible
             procurement arrangements for the new project component10/25/2004.

8. A copy ofthe draft Letter ofAmendment to the Borrower is available upon request.

The World Bank                                                1818 H Street N.W.          (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT        Washington, D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                         U.S.A.                      Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                         November         ,2004


        The RightHonorable
        Mr.Anthony Boatswain
        Minister o f Finance
        MinistryofFinance
        Financial Complex, the Carenage
        St. George's
        GRENADA,W.I.

                                         Re:        HIVAIDSPrevention and Control Project (Loan No. 7140-
                                                    GRD/ Credit 3706-GRD)
                                                    First Amendment

        Dear Mr.Boatswain:

                Please refer to the Loan and Credit Agreements between Grenada (the Borrower) and the
        International Bank o f Reconstruction and Development and the International Development
        Association (jointly the Bank) both dated September 05,2002, for the above mentioned Project.


                Pursuant to your request dated               ,2004 andour recent discussions onthe subject, we
       are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan and Credit Agreements so
       as to incorporate appropriate provisions to help the Borrower address the natural disaster emergency
        situation which recently took place.

                Consequently, the Loan and Development Credit Agreements are hereby amended as follows:

                I. LoanAgreement:

                1.       Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement i s hereby amended to incorporate the following
       modificationto Section 5.08 o f the General Conditions:

                "Section 5.08. Treatment o f Taxes:

                "Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds o f the Loan may be
       withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on the
       goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or
       supply. Financing o f such taxes is subject to the Bank policy o f requiring economy and efficiency in
       the use o f the proceeds o f its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the
       amount o f any taxes levied on, or in respect of any item to be financed out of, the proceeds o f the
       Loan i s excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
       percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as
       required to be consistent with such policy o f the Bank."

                2.       Section 1.02 is hereby amended so as to add the following definitions:

                        "(w)     `Hurricane Ivan' means the hurricane which caused extensive wind
       damage and floods inthe Caribbean in September, 2004;



                                       RCA 248423. LQ WUI 64145 EQ FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                  -2-



                (x)     `NAC Directorate' means the Borrower's NationalAIDS Council Directorate
        referredto in Section 3.10 o f this agreement; and

                  (y)   `Procurement Plan' means the Borrower's procurement plan, dated October
22, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) o f Project implementation, as the same shall
be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions o f Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to
cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) o f Project implementation.".


        3.  Section 3.02 i s hereby amended so as to read in its entirety as follows:


        "Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement o f the goods, works
and services required for the Project and to be financed out o f the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions o f Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further
elaborated inthe Procurement Plan.


        (b)     The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the date o f
the precedingProcurement Plan, for the Bank's approval."


        4. Section 3.10 i s hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:


        "Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall appoint and maintain duringProject implementation a
       national AIDS council (NAC), with membership acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of:
       (i)advising the Borrower on HIV/AIDS policy; and (ii)assist in the coordination and
       implementation o f the Project;


       (b) Not later than three months from the date o f this amendment letter, the Borrower shall
       appoint and thereafter maintain during Project implementation a N A C Directorate serving as
       the executive arm o f the NAC and with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
       Bank, which shall include, inter alia:


                (i) managing the implementation of the Project according to NAC's
       recommendationsregarding the scope, scale and resources o f Project activities;


                (ii)    managing the development o f annual work programs and procurement plans
       incollaboration withthe Borrower's ministries and other stakeholders;


                (iii)           collaborating in the preparation o f adequate annual budgets and the
                                appropriate allocation o f resources; and

               (i4              assuring sound financial management and procurement practices.


       (c) The Borrower shall:


               (i)      ensure that the N A C directorate is staffed at all times with at least a director,
       a deputy director for communications and a program assistant; and


                                RCA 248423. LQWUI 64145 Q2 FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                    -3-


                 (ii)      ensure that the N A C directorate i s provided with adequate facilities,
         satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out its responsibilities."


         5.  The disbursement table for the Loan andthe Credit referredto inparagraph 1of Schedule
             1 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as set
             forth inthe Annex 1to this Amendment Letter.


         6. Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement i s hereby amended and replacedto read in its entirety
             as set forth inAnnex 2 to this Amendment Letter.


         7. Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replacedto read in its entirety
             as set forth inAnnex 3 to this Amendment Letter.


         I1*     Credit Agreement:


         Section 1.O 1 o f the Agreements is hereby amended to incorporate the following modification
to Section 5.08 o f the General Conditions:

         "Section 5.08. Treatment o f Taxes:

         "Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the proceeds o f the
Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Credit, or on their importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing o f such taxes is subject to the Association policy o f
requiring economy and efficiency in the use o f the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the
Association shall at any time determine that the amount o f any taxes levied on, or in respect o f any
item to be financed out of, the proceeds o f the Credit i s excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred
to inrespect o f such item inthe Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy o f the
Association."

         Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
letter inthe spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed intwo counterparts each
o f which shall be an original.


         Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions set forth
in this amendment letter shall become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank
of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.




                                                 Sincerely,




                                  RCA 248423. D WUI 64145 81 FAX (202) 477-6391

                                            -4-


                 INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT



                                      Caroline D.Anstey
                                          Director
                            Caribbean Country Management Unit
                          Latin America and the Caribbean Region



AGREED:

GRENADA


By:
      Authorized Representative


Name:

Date:




                          RCA 248423. 2WUI 64145 P FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                -5-



                                                                                            ANNEX 1

$ 61.    The table below sets forth the Categories o f items to be financed out o f the proceeds o f the
Loan and the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed ineach Category:

                                  Amount o f the Loan         Amount o f the Credit        % o f
                                        Allocated                   Allocated           Expenditureto
            Category              (Expressed inDollars) (Expressed in SDRs)                be Financed

(1) Works                                  590,000                 465,700         100%
     (except as covered
     under category 7 below)




(2) Goods (except as                       27,500                  21,800          100% o f foreign
     covered under                                                                 expenditures,
     Categories (3), (4)                                                           85% of local
     (6) and (7) below)                                                            expenditures

(3) Anti-retroviral                        234,000                  185,000        100%
     (except as covered
     under category 7 below)


(4) Laboratory reagents, drugs             1,23 5,000              975,400         100%
     (except as covered under
     Category (3) above) and
     condoms




(5) Consultants' Services                  185,000                 146,000         100%
     and Training
     (except as covered under
     category 7 below)

(6) (a) Operating costs,                   185,500                 146,000         100%
     other than under Part E
     o fthe Project

     (b) Operating costs under             17,500                  13,900          100%
     Part E o f the Project

(7) Works, Goods, Consultants'             619,100                 511,300         100%
     Services and Training,
     Antiretroviral drugs,

                               RCA 248423. 2WUI 64145 G! FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                -6-


    Laboratory reagents, drugs and
    Condoms under Part Eo f the Project

(8) Premia for Interest                    -0-                                Amount due
   Rate Caps and                                                              under Section
   Interest Rate Collars                                                      2.09 (c) of this
                                                                              Agreement

(9) Fee                                    30,000                             Amount due
                                                                              under Section
                                                                              2.04 o fthis
                                                                              Agreement

(10)   Unallocated                         60,900                 80,900

       TOTALS                              3.000.000              2,400.000




                               RCA 248423. EQ WUI 64145 FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                    -7-




                                                                                            ANNEX 2
                                             "SCHEDULE 2


                                       Description of the Project


          The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower in controlling the spread of the
 HIV/AIDS epidemic through: (i)     the scaling up of programs for the prevention, care and control o f
 the epidemic, targeted in particular to HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups; (ii)the heightening o f the
 awareness with respect to HIV/AIDS infection and prevention amongst the Borrower's population;
 (iii) strengtheningoftheinstitutionalcapacityoftheMOH,otherrelatedgovernmentagenciesand
     the
 civil society organizations to ensure the effectiveness and the sustainability o f the Project; and (d)
 assist the Borrower in its response to the challenges inthe prevention and control o f HIV/AIDSinthe
 aftermath o f Hurricane Ivan.


          The Project consists o f the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
 Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such objective:


Part A: Promotion and Behavior Change


 1.       Reduction o f stigma and discrimination against people living with AIDS, through: (a) the
carrying out o f advocacy campaigns throughout the Borrower's territory; and (b) the strengthening o f
the existinglegal framework to prevent discrimination associated with HIV/AIDS.


2.       Design and implementation o f information, educational and communication programs,
through, inter alia: (a) the improvement o f sexual education (with emphasis on prevention o f
HIV/AIDS and other STI) in schools; (b) the carrying out of educational programs for HIV/AIDS
High-risk Groups; and (c) the carrying out o f outreach campaigns, all for purposes of raising
awareness and understanding among the targeted population with respect to HIV/AIDS transmission,
and promoting behavioral changes with respect to safe sex practices among said population to avoid
the spread o f HIV/AIDS.


Part B: Prevention and Control


1.       Carrying out o f a couples challenge program, consisting o f voluntary counseling and
confidential testing for couples.


2.       Carrying out of a voluntary counseling and confidential HIV/AIDS testingprogram.


3.       Carrying out of a national program to distribute condoms among the Borrower's population.


4.       Provision o f technical assistance, specialized training for health workers, drugs and
laboratory equipment for the strengtheningo f the STI prevention and control program, throughout the
Borrower's network o f health centers.


5.       Implementation o f a national program for tuberculosis patients which will include, inter alia:
(a) the strengthening o f the laboratory network to improve the diagnosis o f tuberculosis; (b) the
                                 RCA 248423. Bi WUI 64145 LQ FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                     -8-


 provision of training to health workers on tuberculosis prevention and control, with particular
 emphasis on HIV/AIDS patients; and (c) the provision o f anti-tuberculosis drugs.


 6.       Carrying out a mother-to-child transmission preventiveprogram which consists of, inter alia:
 (a) the provision o f the anti-retroviral therapy to pregnant women and new-born children; (b) the
 provision o f counseling to mothers regarding breastfeeding alternatives; and (c) the provision o f baby
 formula to new-born children whose mothers are infected with HIV/AIDS.


 7.        Strengthening o f the technical capacity o f the laboratory o f the Borrower's general hospital
 for purposes o f improving the capacity and quality o f HIV/AIDS testing, diagnosing and monitoring
 o f HIV/AIDS infections and preventing HIV cases due to bloodtransfusions.


 8.       (a) Preparation and carry out o f an action plan to implement the recommendations stated on
 the biomedical waste management practices assessment prepared by the Borrower; (b) revision and
 updating o f the manuals containing guidelines and procedures for medical waste handling and
 disposal on the basis o f the recommendations of the assessmentreferred to in (a) above; (c) provision
 o f training to health workers on handling and disposal of medical waste; and (d) acquisition o f
 equipment for the improvement of biomedical waste disposal, on the basis ofthe recommendation of
 the assessmentreferredto in(a) above.


 Part C: Access to Treatment and Care


 1.       Strengtheningo f the technical and institutional capacity o f health facilities inthe Borrower's
 territory, through: (a) the provision of specialized training to improve the diagnosis o f opportunistic
 infections associated with HIV/AIDS; and (b) the provision of care, medical supplies and anti-
 retroviral therapy for patients with AIDS.

2.        Design and implementation o f a program on home care o f HIV/AIDS patients which will
 include, inter alia: (a) the provision o f training to health staff of local care facilities; (b) the provision
of training, family education materials, and counseling to relatives o f HIV/AIDS patients; and (c) the
provision o f medical supplies, disposable materials and medical durable equipment to incapacitated
patients.


Part D: Institutional Development. Management and Surveillance


 1.       Establishment and operation o f NAC.


2.        Establishment and operation o f the N A C Directorate.


3.        Strengtheningo f the institutional capacity o f the NIDCU and the PCU.


4.        Strengthening the institutional capacity o f the MOH and other related government agencies'
disease surveillance system (in particular the STI/HIV/AIDS sub-system), through: (a) the design o f
standardized protocols and systems for the collection and reporting o f data, including data on
population characteristics, in particular data on HIV/AIDS High-riskGroups; and (b) the design and
implementation o f an integrated management information system for HIV/AIDS and the required
information technology platform for the purposes o f improving the Borrower's resource allocation
and decision making concerning HIV/AIDS.

                                   RCA 248423. Q WUI 64145 LQ FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                   -9-


Part E: Emergency Response to Hurricane Ivan


1.       Establishment and operation o f the N A C Directorate as needed for its expanded role for the
prevention and control of the epidemic and difficult working conditions post Hurricane Ivan.


2.       Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to respond to the additional challenges in the
prevention and control of HIV/AIDS caused by Hurricane Ivan, by: (i)assessing the damages to the
Borrower's health service infrastructure, developing and managing the implementation o f a
reconstruction and rehabilitation strategy for the health service delivery infrastructure and
rehabilitating and reconstructing facilities critical for the implementation of Project activities; (ii)
designing and implementing information, education and communication campaigns and condom
distribution strategies attending the populations rendered more vulnerable to HIV post Hurricane
Ivan; (iii)supplying people living with AIDS with drugs, food and materials required for the
rehabilitation o f their homes.

                                                    * * *

        The Project i s expected to be completed by December 3 1,2006.




                                RCA 248423. 81 WUI 64145 FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                 -10-


                                                                                            ANNEX 3

                                              SCHEDULE4


                                               Procurement


 Section I. General


A.       All goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section Io f the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this
Schedule.


B.       All consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with Sections Iand IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.


C.       The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement
methods or methods of review by the Bank o f particular contracts, have the meanings ascribed to
them inthe ProcurementGuidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.


Section 11.      Particular Methods o f Procurement o f Goods, Works and Services (other than
                 Consultants' Services)


        A.       International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B o f this
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis o f International Competitive Bidding. The provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 o f the Procurement Guidelines,providing for domestic preference inthe
evaluation o f bids, shall apply to goods manufactured inthe territory o fthe Borrower.


B.      Other ProcurementProcedures


1.      National Competitive Bidding


        Except as provided for in Part B.4 hereto, works estimated to cost more than $100,000
equivalent per contract, but less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $350,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 o f the Guidelines.


        Selection o f contractors and suppliersunder this paragraph shall be carried out usingstandard
biddingdocuments acceptable to the Bank;



2.      International or National Shopping


(a)     Goods which cannot be grouped into larger bid packages and are estimated to cost less than
$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $330,000 equivalent, may

                                  RCA 248423. 9WUI 64145 Q FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                    -11-


be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f international or national shopping procedures in
 accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines;


 (b)     Goods procured under Part E of the Project, estimated to cost less than US$500,000
 equivalent per contract, may be procured using shopping procedures based on a model request for
 quotations satisfactory to the Association in accordance with paragraph 3.5 o f the Guidelines.



3.       Force Account.


Works which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Force Account may be carried out in
accordance with the provisions o f said procurement method. In order to respond to the needs o f the
natural disaster, the Borrower may also call for participation o f community groups.


4.       Procurement o f Small Works


$100,000(a)equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $155,000 equivalent, may
                  Works for all other parts o f the Project, except Part E, estimated to cost less than

be procured under lump-sum, fixed-priced contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the requiredwork, and who has
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; and


         (b)      Works under Part E o f the Project estimated to cost less than US$1 millionequivalent
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f at least three quotations
received by qualified contractors in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed
description o f the works, includingbasic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f
agreement satisfactory to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable, in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraph 3.5 o f the Guidelines.



5.       Direct Contracting


(a)     Drugs, including anti-retroviral, reagents, condoms and other pharmaceuticals, may, with the
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 3.7 o f the
Guidelines;


(b)     Goods and works under Part E o f the Project for an amount up to US$500,000 equivalent per
contract, to be used for rehabilitation o f vital services or required for response to a natural disaster
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs
3.6 and 3.7 o f the Guidelines.




Section111.      Particular Methods o f Procurement o f Consultants' Services



                                  RCA 248423. LFl WUI 64145 P FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                  -12-


A.      Oualitv- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section,
consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f Quality- and Cost-
based Selection.


B.      Other Procedures



 1.     Selection Based on Consultant's Oualifications


        Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 o f the Consultant Guidelines.


2.      Least-cost Selection


        Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements o f paragraph 3.6 o f
the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost
Selection in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 o f the Consultant Guidelines.


3.      IndividualConsultants


        Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence of
paragraph 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 o f the Consultant
Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 o f the Consultant Guidelines, such
contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval o f
the Bank.


4.      Single Source Selection


        Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements o f paragraph 3.10 o f the
Consultant Guidelinesfor Single Source Selection, may, with the Bank`s prior agreement, be procured
inaccordance withthe provisions ofparagraphs 3.9 through 3.13 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.


Section IV.      Review bv the Bank o f ProcurementDecisions


        Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:


    (a) each contract for works under Part E o f the Project estimated to cost the equivalent o f
        $100,000 or more;


    (b) each contract for goods and works procuredunder Part B.5 (b) o f SectionI1o f this Schedule;

   (c) each contract goods and works procuredunder Part B.3 o f Section I1o f this Schedule;




                                 RCA 248423. Q2 WUI 64145 FAX (202) 477-6391

                                                  -13-


    (d) each contract procured under Part B.2 (b) of Section I1to this Schedule estimated to cost the
          equivalent o f $100,000 per contract;


    (e) each contract for consultants' services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent o f
           $100,000 or more.

    (0 Each contract for consulting firms and individual consultants to be procured through single
          source under Parts B.3 and B.4 o f Section I11to this Schedule respectively.


    (g) All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.




FabiolaAltimari


M:\GRENADA\Amendments\L-7140andC-3706.doc


October 25,2004 8:05 PM




                                 RCA 248423. LQ WUI 64145 FAX (202) 477-6391

