LE        Copy                  b              ,Document of
FILE         COPI                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1830-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
THIRD FERTILIZER EXPANSION PROJECT: PUSRI IV
April 29, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00         =   Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 1.00         =   $0.0024
Rp 1 million    =   S2,410
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A THIRD FERTILIZER
EXPANSION PROJECT: PUSRI IV
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$70 million to
help finance a 1,000 ton per day (TPD) ammonia plant and a 1,725 TPD urea
plant for P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI). The loan would have a term of
15-1/2 years, including 3-1/2 years grace with interest at 8-1/2 percent
per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to PUSRI at the same
repayment term but with an interest rate of 12 percent per annum, including
a 3-1/2 percent fee accruing to the Government which will assume the foreign
exchange risk. The Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) is also expected to
make a loan to the Republic of Indonesia of $70 million equivalent for the
project at 4 per cent interest per annum, for a term of 19 years including
4 years of grace. The SFD loan is expected to be made available to PUSRI by
the Government on the same terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Indonesia:   Development
Prcspects and Needs" of April 15, 1975 (708-IND) described and analyzed
the structures of production and incomes, the recent changes in the avail-
ability of resources, and the medium and longer-term outlook for the
Indonesian economy. Country data are shown in Annex 1.
3.        In 1969, at the start of Indonesia's First Five-Year Plan, the
per capita income of the Indonesian population was probably no higher than
half a century ago. A majority of the population lived below a minimum
welfare standard, especially on Java. Most were dependent exclusively or
primarily on agriculture, and farms were generally very small. Under-
employment was widespread. While the inflation of the mid-1960s had been
overcome, infrastructure was still in a very poor condition.
4.       'The Government's efforts during the First Five-Year Plan period
(April 1, 1969 - March 31, 1974) were successful in putting the economy
on the development path. Most physical objectives were achieved or nearly
so, and there was substantial rehabilitation of run-down infrastructure
and Government enterprises in agriculture-and manufacturing. Foodgrain
production increased by 4 million tons during the Plan period at an average
rate of 5 percent per annum. Investments increased at a very fast rate,
rising from 9 to 19 percent of GNP. The reliance on foreign financing of
Government development expenditures was much smaller (57 percent) than the
rate of nearly 80 percent foreseen in the Plan. GDP increased at an annual
rate of over 7 percent. GNP per capita, in current prices, reached about
$130 1/ in 1973. The Government instituted programs for the labor intensive
1/   World Bank Atlas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
rehabilitation of infrastructure and other programs which created substantial
incomes and employment. In all, however, given the annual increase in the
labor force of about one million, one cannot be confident that the employment
situation improved during the First Plan period, and it is difficult to judge
from available information the extent to which the poorest sections of the
population shared in the gains of development.
5.        The Second Five-Year Plan (April 1, 1974 - March 31, 1979) builds
on the achievements of the First Plan. While the First Plan dealt mainly
with the urgent needs for stabilization and rehabilitation under conditions
of great scarcity of resources, progress had been such that the Second
Plan could give much more attention to such problems as employment, equitable
distribution, regional growth, health and education. The Plan identifies a
number of specific low-income target groups and, in general, adopts an employ-
ment oriented development strategy. It aims at a continued growth in invest-
ments, needed both because capital intensity will tend to increase as the
rehabilitation phase draws to an end, and because more socially-oriented
investments will be made. Overall, the Plan expects GDP to grow at 7.5
percent per annum.
6.        Over the decade 1961-71, Indonesia's population grew by 2.1 percent
a year. However, as a result of changes in the age, distribution and declining
mortality, the current annual growth rate is estimated at 2.5 percent. Even
under the most optimistic assumptions with regard to fertility decline, the
growth rate would only come down gradually, and the population would nearly
double by the end of the century. While Indonesia still has substantial
unutilized land reserves in the Outer Islands, these are limited in relation
to the expected population increase, and a further large increase in popula-
tion pressure - already severe on the Inner Islands - must be expected.
Since 1969, the Government has been operating and gradually extending a
family planning program. The number of acceptors has been increasing rapidly.
The Second Five-Year Plan foresees a progressively more vigorous and compre-
hensive attack on the population problem.
7.        During the years 1976-79, average annual additions to the labor force
are estimated at 1.2 million, increasing to more than 1.4 million in the years
1980-85. In addition, substantial underemployment exists, and there is the
risk that even relatively simple technological improvements may adversely
affect existing employment. The Second Plan's projections show that employment
growth would almost keep up with the growth in the labor force but even this
may prove optimistic. Thus, the employment thrust of the Plan needs to be
further strengthened if an appreciable increase in real labor earnings - and a
wider spread of the benefits of development - is to be attained.
8.        Towards the end of 1973, when the Second Plan was being finalized,
prospects for resource availability improved dramatically. In line with other
OPEC countries, the Government raised the export price of oil in successive
stages from $3.70 per barrel in April 1973 to $12.60 per barrel in July 1974.
Early in 1974 (and again in 1975) the Government successfully renegotiated the
contracts with foreign oil companies, enabling it to retain a greater share of



the oil income. As a result, the net contribution of the oil sector to the
balance of payments and Government revenues was expected to increase very
considerably; a large increase in foreign exchange reserves and a budget
surplus were also anticipated for 1974/75 1/.
9.        By October 1974, foreign exchange reserves had risen by $650 mil-
lion from about $1 billion at the beginning of 1974/75 and Government revenues
exceeded the levels originally estimated. The Government authorized much
higher levels of expenditures, mainly for development, which reflected the
improved revenue prospects. However, the recessionary conditions in the in-
dustrial countries began to affect the volume of oil exports and production by
the middle of the year. Indonesia's low-sulphur oil tended to become over-
priced 2/ as world oil demand slackened and output declined from an average of
1.45 million barrels per day (bpd) in the first half of 1974 to 1.31 million
bpd in the second half. Proceeds from non-oil exports also started to decline
as prices, and in some cases export quantities, fell.
10.       In October 1974 also, the first signs appeared of what turned out to
be a substantial financial overextension by PERTAMINA, the national oil compa-
ny. PERTAMINA had undertaken a large and diversified investment program fi-
nanced to a substantial extent by short-term borrowing. In the third quarter
of 1974/75 it started withholding part of the corporate oil tax it had
collected on behalf of Government from the foreign oil companies; by the end
of the fiscal year a total of Rp 346 billion ($830 million) had been so
withheld and used to meet PERTAMINA's financial obligations. Early in 1975,
PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due to some foreign banks, and the Govern-
ment stepped in and took decisive action. It banned all independent foreign
borrowing by PERTAMINA and other Government enterprises and gave Bank Indonesia
the sole authority to contract foreign obligations, instructed Bank Indonesia
to provide the funds needed to meet PERTAMINA's external obligations, under-
took a comprehensive review of the oil company's investment projects and began
the process of reducing and re-planning the company's investment program and
of cancelling and renegotiating many of the related procurement contracts.
11.       The combination, in the latter half of 1974/75, of slackening re-
ceipts from exports of oil and other products, and of the need to meet
PERTAMINA's short term obligations resulted in a loss of the foreign exchange
reserves gained in the first half of the fiscal year; by March 31, 1975,
these reserves were at the same level as at the beginning of April 1974.
12.       In the first half of 1975/76, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves
declined by a further $480 million, despite substantial capital inflows,
1/   Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975.
2/   The premium on Indonesian oil has recently been reduced by the Govern-
ment's decision to raise the price of its main crude by 1.5 percent (to
$12.80) as compared with the 10 percent increase in the price of Saudi
Arabian light crude agreed at the meeting of OPEC in September 1975.



- 4 -
which included two syndicated public cash borrowings (totalling $575 million)
from the international capital market. With continuing recessionary con-
ditions in Indonesia's principal markets, exports failed to increase while
imports rose again (about 30% on an annual basis). Debt service payments on
behalf of PERTAMINA were also very large (about $1.0 billion). In the second
half of 1975/76, there was no appreciable change in export earnings, but
imports and debt service payments were lower and there was only a small re-
duction in capital inflows (two more cash loans, amounting to $475 million,
were raised). The country's foreign exchange reserve position was therefore
relatively stable in this period and the decline in the reserves for the
year as a whole amounted to nearly $500 million.
13.       Balance of payments prospects for 1976/77 are on the whole good.
Recovery from the recession appears to be underway in most industrialized
countries, commodity prices seem to have bottomed out and oil exports from
Indonesia have been rising in recent months. The Government is in the process
of negotiating an increase in its share of the oil income. Rice imports are
expected to remain at the average level of recent years (Government estimate
is 1.4 million tons) but prices are likely to be considerably lower. The
country has sizeable stocks of fertilizer and only small amounts are expected
to be imported. However, there remains some uncertainty as to the exact
magnitude of payments due on account of PERTAMINA's financial obligations,
and the outcome for foreign exchange reserves during 1976/77 at this point
is difficult to predict.
14.       Budgetary revenues in 1974/75 were much lower than had been anti-
cipated at the middle of the year, partly due to the withholding of oil tax
revenues by PERTMITNA and partly to the shortfall in oil exports in the
second half of the year. The budget was however, still in balance by year's
end as the Government reduced or deferred expenditures. The Government re-
venue in 1975/76 also fell substantially short of the budget estimates, main-
ly as a result of lower oil tax revenue. To keep the budget balanced, both
current and development expenditures were reduced. Revenues, as well as
current and domestically financed development expenditures, are now esti-
mated to have been roughly 15 percent lower than originally budgeted.
15.       In spite of the shortfall in budgetary revenues, and the adminis-
trative difficulties involved in the implementation of some projects, total
development expenditures in 1974/75 were Rp 770 billion ($1.9 billion), about
60 percent higher than the level in the previous year. In 1975/76 they are
estimated at Rp 1.27 trillion ($3.1 billion), including foreign project
financing totalling about $925 million and fertilizer subsidies amounting to
$320 million. This is more than two and one-half times the actual expenditure
in 1973/74; when adjusted for price changes it represents an increase of
about 60 percent.
16.       Preliminary figures indicate that the high growth rate achieved
during 1969-1973 was maintained in 1974. In constant 1973 prices, gross
domestic product rose by 7.5 percent in 1974. Partial indicators seem to
point to slower growth of output in 1975. The inflation rate was very high
Ln the first part of 1974 as, among other factors, world inflation was trans-
mitted through both export and import channels, but abated somewhat later in



- 5 -
the year, partly as a result of the Government's stabilization measures in
April 1974. Nevertheless, for the year as a whole it reached 40 percent.
While still considerable, the average inflation rate for 1975 was reduced to
20 percent.
17.       In the aftermath of the PERTAMINA development, the Government is
faced with problems which, although serious, are surmountable. The review of
PERTAMINA's projects has resulted in the cancellation or renegotiation of
many contracts and reductions in project scope and size. 1/ The Government
has more recently undertaken a broader review of projects initiated by
various Government departments and other State entities in an effort to
bring future expenditures in line with available resources and the priorities
set out in the Second Plan. It is screening very carefully any major new
programs or projects, since considerable resources will be needed in the
next year or two for the completion of projects already initiated.
18.       The recent financial difficulties will have a longer-term effect
on the country's external public debt service obligations during the rest
of the decade. Debt service payments over the next several years will be
much larger than previously envisaged as a result of the large borrowings by
the Government in the last fiscal year. Debt service in 1976/77 is now
estimated at $700 million, which would be about 12 percent of the value
of officially projected net oil and other exports. Debt service payments
on all loans contracted up to December 31, 1975 may reach about one billion
dollars by 1978, before declining as shorter-term maturities are paid off.
This is about $500 million more per year than the payments projected on the
basis of debt outstanding at the end of 1974. With debt service obligations
from these borrowings substantially higher than expected earlier (about
13 percent of exports in 1978), the margin for further borrowing on other
than semi-concessional terms has now become much more limited. The amounts,
terms and purposes of future borrowing therefore need to be kept under con-
tinuous and careful review.
19.       While the recent balance of payments and budgetary difficulties
have upset some of the Government's plans, the long-term prospects for
Indonesia's development remain good. The country has a substantial poten-
tial for further productive investment, employment and income growth. In
agriculture a vigorous pursuit of on-going programs in irrigation, develop-
ment of new plant varieties and technical services, provision of credit
and current inputs, etc., promises to yield high returns. In addition,
there are opportunities for the development of new areas, of food and plant-
ation crops - partly in conjunction with a rapidly growing transmigration
program. The industrial potential is good, both for modern capital in-
tensive natural resource-based activities and for more labor-intensive,
partly export-oriented industries.
1/   The planned capacity of the Krakatau Steel plant for example was re-
duced from 2,000,000 to 500,000 tons per year and the existing supply
contracts were reduced by $750 million.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
20.       Part I of this Report emphasized Indonesia's plans for and need
to undertake a large investment and development program designed to provide
productive work opportunities (with resultant increased incomes) for its pre-
sently underemployed and growing labor force. Substantial external financing,
the larger part on concessional and semi-concessional terms, as well as a con-
siderable volume of technical assistance, is also required. The Bank is plan-
ning to maintain its lending to Indonesia at present levels and in particular
to support projects designed to: improve agricultural credit, research and
extension; rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems; improve nutritional
levels; assist transmigration and other land development in the Outer Islands
for and by smallholders; increase non-agricultural employment in the rural
areas and small towns, through the establishment of small-scale industries;
rehabilitate and expand urgently needed transportation and other infrastructure;
assist urban development and the national family planning program.
21.       As of April 15, 1976, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits total-
ling $561.8 million and twelve Bank loans amounting to $628 million. At that
date, IFC investments totalled $58.4 million. At the end of 1974 the Bank
Group accounted for about 4 percent of Indonesia's total (disbursed) outstand-
ing public debt; by 1978 it is expected to account for 12 percent of total
outstanding debt and 5 percent of public debt service obligations. A summary
statement of IDA Credits and Bank Loans as of March 31, 1976 and IFC Investments
as of February 29, 1976, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects
are contained in Annex II. This is the sixth loan proposed for Indonesia this
year and, if approved, would bring total IBRD commitments since June 30, 1975
to $372 million.
22.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one-third of all
Bank Group lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate
rehabilitation, six for the rehabilitation and expansion of the irrigation
systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds, beef cattle, sugar and
smallholder tea and rubber. In the industrial sector, the Bank Group has
assisted in three projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production and dis-
tribution capacity, three for development finance companies (Government-owned
and private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of industrial
enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial estate. Loans and credits
have also been extended to the transportation, education, telecommunications,
tourism, power, population, urbanization and water supply sectors; one loan
for a national resource survey and mapping project; and four credits for
technical assistance to aid the Government in preparing and formulating its
development programs and projects.
23.       Bank Group lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in
1968 for irrigation rehabilitation; almost half of all loans and credits
have been made since mid-1972, with lending on Bank terms commencing in
June 1974. Disbursements on loans and credits are prevailing at satisfactory
levels. The Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the
delays in project execution caused by cumbersome procedures and the need to
establish an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the National Development



Planning Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank has arranged for
assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help
set up a monitoring and control system which it is hoped will lead to better
project administration.
24.       Future Bank lending gives high priority to the agricultural sector
through support of projects to increase rice and other crop production in the
Inner and Outer Islands, and the expansion of resettlement efforts on the
latter. In addition, the program provides for further socially-oriented pro-
jects in the fields of urban development and population. Projects for agri-
cultural extension, ports, power, irrigation and nutrition are expected to be
ready for presentation in the next few months.
PART III - THE INDONESIAN FERTILIZER INDUSTRY
25.       Increased supplies of fertilizer are crucial to the success of the
Indonesian Government's efforts to increase the production of food and cash
crops. On the Inner Islands of Java and Bali, where limited additional
arable land is available, increased production will depend principally on
raising yields which can be achieved through application of additional fer-
tilizer in combination with improved and increased irrigation water supplies
and use of high yielding varieties of seeds. As is indicated in paragraph 22,
the Bank Group has already provided substantial assistance to the Government
in rehabilitating and expanding irrigation systems and increasing the produc-
tion of fertilizer and high-yielding seeds. In the longer run, the Govern-
ment is planning to expand its resettlement efforts to open up new areas of
production' in the Outer Islands. The success of these efforts will depend,
in part, on the increased availability of fertilizer as the soils in the outer
islands are less fertile than in Java and heavier applications of fertilizer
are therefore necessary.
26.       Indonesia, with its large reserves of natural gas, offers very
favorable conditions for the production of nitrogen fertilizer. P.T.
Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI), established in 1959 as a wholly-owned Government
Company, built the first urea plant in Indonesia (PUSRI I), which commenced
operation in 1964. While this 100,000 tons per year (TPY) plant is small by
present standards, it quickly achieved capacity operation, fluctuating between
84 percent and 104 percent. PUSRI I is expected to need major overhaul by
1978 after 13 years of operation. Another fertilizer plant, Petrokimia, at
Gresik in East Java, was commissioned in 1972, and has an annual production
capacity of about 45,000 TPY of urea and about 150,000 tons of ammonium
sulfate based on the partial oxidation of fuel oil. In 1969, in response to
Government requests, the Bank Group assisted in organizing a consortium of
international aid agencies, in addition to making a Credit of $35 million
(Credit 193-IND), for the financing of the expansion of PUSRI by adding a
modern 380,000 TPY urea plant (PUSRI II). Later, the Government with the help
of consultants financed under the First Technical Assistance Credit (135-IND),
carried out a National Fertilizer Study which reviewed the agronomic, economic
and marketing aspects of fertilizer in Indonesia and developed a program to
expand fertilizer production, marketing and consumption. After completion of
this study, IDA financed under the Third Technical Assistance Credit (275-IND)
the feasibility study for the West Java fertilizer project based on gas
supplies in that area. Assistance in financing this plant is now being
provided by Iran. At about the same time, PERTAMINA, with financial assistance
from private sources, undertook construction of an ammonia-urea plant in East
Kalimantan based on newly discovered gas supplies available in that area. The



- 8 -
PUSRI II plant began commercial operations in 1975 at capacity utilization of
76 percent, which is expected to rise to 90 percent in 1976. As PUSRI II was
nearing completion, the Government decided in early 1974 to commence PUSRI
III, based on additional gas supplies available in South Sumatera, to meet the
growing demand for fertilizers. The Bank made a loan of $115 million (Loan
1089-IND) for this expansion. The construction of the PUSRI III plant is
proceeding according to schedule, and when completed will produce 1,725 tons
per day (TPD) of urea. In April 1975, the Government decided to start work on
PUSRI IV when PERTAMINA's East Kalimantan fertilizer project, designed as a
floating plant, began to experience delays because of serious technical and
financial problems.
27.       Further planning for nitrogen fertilizer production in Indonesia
is determined mainly by three factors. First, consumption of nitrogen
fertilizer, spurred by Government programs to increase food crop production,
is rising faster than anticipated a few years ago. Second, very large
deposits of natural gas have been found in North Sumatera 1/ and East
Kalimantan and, on a smaller scale, in West Java. The resource base for
additional nitrogen fertilizer production has thus been greatly enhanced.
Finally, recent energy price developments give nitrogen fertilizer plants
based on natural gas and serving domestic or regional markets at relatively
low distribution costs a competitive advantage over plants based on either
coal or hydrocarbons imported in the form of crude oil, fuel oil, naphtha or
liquified natural gas (LNG). The Bank's report, "The Fertilizer Requirements
of Developing Countries" of July, 1975 identified Indonesia as one of the
future suppliers of nitrogenous fertilizers to the countries in East and
South-East Asia. In these countries, Indonesian plants would also have a
transport cost advantage over competing producers.
28.       Fertilizer consumption in Indonesia is characterized by (a) the
predominance of the rice crop in agriculture and in total fertilizer usage;
(b) the heavy reliance on nitrogen fertilizers, mostly urea for rice; and
(c) the concentration of consumption in Java, Madura and Bali, the major
rice-growing regions. During 1968-75 fertilizer consumption increased at
an average rate of 21 percent annually. In spite of these rapid increases,
fertilizer consumption per hectare is still comparatively low in Indonesia,
even in Java. Updated demand projections for nitrogen fertilizer show an
increase in the expected annual demand by about 10 percent since: first,
constraints on fertilizer availability that existed especially in 1973/74 have
been overcome by the Government's fertilizer stockpile and increased produc-
tion from the new plants; second, incentives have been introduced by the
Government to boost fertilizer use, mainly by strengthening and expanding the
credit program and by maintaining an attractive ratio between the cost of
fertilizer and prices for agricultural produce; and third, recommended dosages
of urea have been increased. Based on these assumptions, domestic consumption
1/   Government plans also include another ammonia-urea plant by 1982 as
part of a petro-chemical complex in Aceh, North Sumatera; it is pro-
posed to be a regional export-oriented project with investment from
Indonesia and neighboring countries. This project is in an initial
stage of planning and has not been taken into account in this report.



- 9 -
of nitrogen fertilizer is expected to increase from 310,000 nutrient tons in
1974 to about 775,000 nutrient tons in 1980 and about 981,500 nutrient tons in
1985.
29.       Domestic production of nitrogen fertilizer has lagged behind con-
sumption; only some 54 percent of consumption in 1975 was met from domestic
sources. Thus, Indonesia's total imports of fertilizer have increased at an
average annual rate of about 20 percent from 1964 to 1973. Bagged urea
import prices (c.i.f. Jakarta) increased sharply from $62/ton in January
1972 to $424/ton at the end of 1974, and even at this high price, fertilizers
in general, and urea in particular, were not readily available in adequate
quantity on the world market. Accordingly, the Government initiated a fertil-
izer stockpiling program to secure an adequate supply to the farmers; imports
increased by some 87 percent and 56 percent in 1974 and 1975 respectively,
and in the last quarter of 1975 the country's stocks increased to about 1.6
million tons of urea or about two-year's needs at 1975 levels of consumption.
Therefore, Indonesia is not expected to have to import additional urea and by
the turn of the decade the new production units will provide an ample domestic
supply as well as an exportable surplus.
30.       The annual production capacity for nitrogen fertilizer, which is some
263,000 nutrient tons at present, is projected to increase five-fold in ten
years to about 1.2 million nutrient tons in 1985 when four additional plants
are scheduled to be in commercial production:     (a) PUSRI III in April 1977;
(b) PUSRI IV in February 1978; (c) the West Java plant in July 1979 and (d)
the East Kalimantan plant in July 1980. As agreed under Loan 1089-IND
(PUSRI III Fertilizer Expansion Project) the Government will from time to
time exchange views with the Bank on its plans for meeting the country's
fertilizer requirements.
31.       As a result of these developments, Indonesia should emerge as an
exporter of nitrogen fertilizer by the early 1980's. The exportable surplus
is projected to be about 234,000 tons of nitrogen in 1982 1/ and then decline
to about 174,000 tons in 1985 as domestic demand increases. The nitrogen
fertilizer deficit for the region consisting of the Philippines, Thailand
and Malaysia is expected to be about 267,000 tons in 1980 and about 375,000
tons in 1985, even if tentative plans to build urea plants in several neighbor-
ing countries are implemented. Indonesia, because of its favorable location,
is in an advantageous position to supply these deficits. The Government has
agreed with its neighbors on a region-wide market survey to form a basis for
coordinated nitrogen fertilizer development plans and for the allocation of
markets for exportable surpluses. The Government has agreed with the Bank
that by December 1, 1977 a study will be completed of the markets to which
nitrogen fertilizer,could be profitably exported, and that in consultation
with PUSRI, it would adopt an export strategy for such fertilizer based on the
results of the study and inform the Bank of such strategy (Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement).
32.       Since no phosphate or potash deposits have been found in Indonesia,
phosphatic fertilizer and potash have so far been imported, mostly in the
1/   The export surplus could be double this volume if Indonesia builds
another ammonia/urea plant at Aceh by 1982 (page 8, footnote).



- 10 -
form of triple superphostate (TSP) and muriate of potash (MP). Petrokimia
plans to build a 330,000 TPY TSP plant at Gresik, East Java. However, even
after completion of this plant, Indonesia would need to import substantial
amounts of phosphate and potash. Trials to determine the optimal nutrient
ratios appropriate to the various Indonesian soils and crops are underway.
33.       In 1972, nearly 80 percent of all nitrogen fertilizer was used
on Java. With the development of the Outer Islands, Java's share is ex-
pected to decrease to about 67 percent in 1980 and about 65 percent in 1985.
Since the major gas deposits are on Sumatera and off-shore East Kalimantan, a
reliable fertilizer transport and distribution system is required to connect
the raw material and production centers with the Java market. PUSRI has
established an efficient distribution network to market its fertilizer output,
imported fertilizers and related agro-chemicals, currently accounting for the
distribution of about 60 percent of all fertilizer consumed in Indonesia.
34.       PUSRI operates bulk terminals with bagging facilities and ships
urea from Palembang both in bags through vessels which operate among the
islands and in bulk, through chartered carriers equipped for unloading at the
bulk terminals, where urea is bagged, stored and dispatched for inland dis-
tribution. A more optimal solution for fertilizer shipments will be estab-
lished by more efficient bulk shipping, unloading, bagging and related storage
facilities to be installed by mid-1977 under the Fertilizer Distribution
Project ($68 million Loan No. 1139-IND of July 10, 1975). Final design
of a transport and distribution system to accommodate the PUSRI IV plant's
production will be made when the ongoing National Fertilizer and Pesticides
Distribution Study, financed by the above-mentioned loan, is completed in June
1976; bilateral assistance is being sought for the implementation of the
system. During negotiations agreement was reached that the additional dis-
tribution facilities required for PUSRI IV will be developed in time for the
commercial operation of the project (Part C of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment); and PUSRI agreed that a financing plan and an implementation schedule
for such fertilizer distribution and marketing facilities would be made
available to the Bank three months after the completion of the National
Fertilizer and Pesticides Distribution Study now underway (Section 2.08 of the
Project Agreement).
35.       Over 60 percent of the fertilizer consumed in Indonesia is in areas
covered by two successful programs for promoting intensive cultivation of food-
crops, especially of rice; the BIMAS (Mass Guidance Program) and the INMAS
(Mass Intensification Program). The rest of the fertilizer is used mostly by
the cash crop and estate sectors. The Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) is the sole
credit agency for the BIMAS and INMAS programs, while the estate sector depends
on the normal banking facilities to meet its credit needs. Credit for fertil-
izer purchases in all these sectors is currently provided by BRI and by normal
banking facilities at monthly interest rates of 1 to 2 percent and existing
arrangements are adequate to ensure that sufficient credit will be available
in the future. Fertilizer is sold in village retail "kiosks" or by village
unit cooperatives. It is the Government's policy to expand and strengthen
these cooperatives and promote them as a main source of input supplies for
farmers under the BIMAS and INMAS programs.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       In April 1975, in recognition of the assessment by the Government
that PUSRI alone has the required technical, organizational, commercial and
financial experience to implement rapidly another fertilizer project to meet
Indonesia's growing demand, the Government decided to start work on PUSRI
IV. The proposed project will increase PUSRI's urea capacity from 1.0 mil-
lion to 1.6 million TPY. The plant will be located adjacent to PUSRI's
existing facility at Palembang, in South Sumatera.
37.       The feasibility study for PUSRI IV was completed in 1975.   The pro-
ject was appraised by missions in September/October 1975 and January 1976.
Negotiations were held in Washington in March, 1976. The Government's nego-
tiating team was led by Dr. Julianto Moeliodihardjo and PUSRI's team was led
by Mr. Kotan Pasaman. Mr. S. Al-Zamel represented the Saudi Fund for Develop-
ment. The Appraisal Report is being circulated to the Executive Directors
separately and a loan and project summary is contained in Annex III.
Prolect Description
38.       The project would consist of:   (a) the detailed engineering, con-
struction and start-up of a fertilizer plant at Palembang, Sumatera; and (b)
training of PUSRI's staff and staff employed in the national fertilizer
industry in the operation and maintenance of plant as well as in financial
and accounting procedures. The plant's facilities would include: (i) a
single-train ammonia unit with a capacity of about 1,000 metric tons per
day; (ii) a single-train urea unit with a capacity of about 1,725 metric
tons per day; (iii) a natural gas pre-treatment section; (iv) the usual off-
sites and auxiliaries required to support such plant, including inter alia,
an ammonia storage tank, urea storage and loading facilities, cooling towers,
water treatment facilities, a 15 MW gas turbine power generator coupled with
waste heat boiler and expansion of the bag making plant financed under the
PUSRI III project. The project is part of a larger program which will also
include the development of a gas gathering and distribution system and a
fertilizer distribution facility. (Parts B and C of Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement).
39.       Natural gas will be used for both feedstock and fuel and will be
obtained from the nearby oil and gas fields in South Sumatera operated by
PERTAMINA and STANVAC. Total gas reserves in the area are estimated to be
adequate to meet PUSRI's needs over the entire life of the projects and the
Government has assured PUSRI that its requirements will be met on a priority
basis. Under Loan No. 1089-IND (PUSRI III Fertilizer Expansion Project) the
Government is obligated to assure an adequate supply of gas at reasonable
prices for PUSRI III. However, PERTAMINA and STANVAC have not been able thus
far to agree on a mutually agreeable gas price formula. During negotiations,
the Government informed the Bank that it will assist PERTAMINA and STANVAC to
agree on the formula and sign a contract at an early date. Gas for PUSRI II is
supplied by a gathering and transmission system developed by PERTAMINA which



- 12 -
was redesigned in 1974 to include PUSRI III gas requirements. In response to
a Government instruction in early 1975 that PERTAMINA develop a gas supply
scheme to cover the additional gas requirements for PUSRI IV, PERTAMINA
designed an integrated gas system which will supply all of the Company's
requirements (except PUSRI I which is supplied by a gas pipeline operated by
STANVAC). In August 1975, PUSRI and PERTAMINA entered into a gas supply
agreement obligating PERTAMINA to supply the Company's requirements for PUSRI
II, III and IV plants over their respective lives, an estimated 20-year
period. PERTAMINA will be the executing agency of the integrated gas project.
40.       The PUSRI III project is expected to require gas for initial test-
ing by mid-1976 and the existing gas system developed for PUSRI II is capable
of delivering the quantity needed for this purpose. It is also expected that
PUSRI III will be ready for final performance tests in early 1977 when its
full gas requirements will be needed and, therefore, the looping work from
Simpiang to Palembang and extension of the existing gas gathering system to
nearby STANVAC and PERTAMINA fields will have to be completed. During nego-
tiations, the Government made available to the Bank a contract between
PERTAMINA and Quadra Engineering Company of Canada to complete the most im-
portant phase (1-C) of the gas project by February, 1977. Financing for this
phase of work is being negotiated with the Export Development Corporation
(EDC) of Canada. Should EDC financing or other assistance not be available,
the Government would be obligated to finance the gas project from its own
resources (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). Further, the Government has
undertaken to carry out other phases (1-A and 1-B) of the gas project in time
to ensure adequate gas supply to PUSRI IV plant (Part B of Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The total financing required for the project, including working
capital and interest during construction, is estimated at $186 million equi-
valent, of which $145 million would be in foreign exchange. Proceeds of the
Bank and SFD loans would cover 92 percent of the foreign exchange costs, with
the Government meeting the balance of 8 percent. The Government will also
contribute the necessary local currency financing, including working capital.
Cost estimates include provision for a physical contingency equivalent to 7
percent of the base cost estimate; this is relatively low due to the advanced
stage of the project. Price escalation for equipment (excluding proprietary
and critical items valued at $25 million for which orders have already been
placed on fixed price contracts) is based on projected price increases due to
inflation in major equipment supplying countries of 9 percent in 1976 and 8
percent per year thereafter. Price escalation for civil works is based on
price increases due to projected rates of inflation in Indonesia of 13 per-
cent in 1976 and 12 percent per year thereafter.
42.       The incremental working capital requirements of the project are
estimated at $7.8 million. At present, the Company's consolidated accounts
show excessive working capital, primarily because of the large inventory of



-13 -
imported fertilizers held by PUSRI on behalf of the Government (paragraph 29).
However, the national fertilizer stockpile accounts will be shown separately
by PUSRI starting in 1977 and the Government will continue to make up all
the losses resulting from the stockpile operation (paragraph 53). For the
purpose of projections, therefore, the stockpile accounts have not been taken
into consideration. As a result, the current excessive working capital of
PUSRI is forecast to show a sharp reduction from 1977 onwards.
43.       The Government will subscribe $46 million in new equity to PUSRI
in foreign exchange and in local currency as required. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that these funds will be made
available to PUSRI in a timely manner and that, the Government would provide
promptly the funds needed to complete the project on terms satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement). The financing of the balance
$140 million (75 percent) will be provided on a parallel basis by the proposed
loans from the Bank and SFD. The Bank loan to the Government will be on-lent
to the Company with repayment over the same period as the Bank loan but with
interest at 12 percent per annum, including a 3-1/2 percent fee accruing to
the Government which will assume the foreign exchange risk. The SFD loan to
the Government is expected to be made at 4 percent interest per annum, for a
term of 19 years including 4 years of grace. The SFD loan is expected to be
made available to PUSRI by the Government on the same terms as the proposed
Bank loan. The Bank loan will become effective after all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the SFD loan are met (Section 6.01(d) of the Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
44.       In view of the urgent need to increase domestic production of fertil-
izer as quickly as possible and to make the country self-sufficient in nitrogen
fertilizer by 1980, and given the high escalation in equipment prices, it was
recognized that there were important benefits in speedy project implementation.
Therefore, in response to the Government's request, the Bank agreed that the
Company retain, on a negotiated basis, Kellogg Overseas Corporation (U.S.) and
Toyo Engineering Corporation (Japan), the contractors for PUSRI II and III, to
implement PUSRI IV as well. A project team has been formed to supervise and
coordinate the work of the two engineering firms which have performed satisfac-
torily for PUSRI II and III. Kellogg will have overall responsibility for
construction, erection and start-up of the complete fertilizer plant which
will be supplied as follows: (a) the ammonia plant and all offsites and
auxiliaries are being designed and procured by Kellogg; and (b) the urea plant
is being designed by Toyo which would also procure the equipment for shipment
to the plant site ready for erection by Kellogg. These arrangements together
with standardization in equipment, and reduced spare parts requirements,
will significantly reduce the capital costs of the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       International competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines are being used -- independent of the source of financing



- 14 -
-- for equipment and materials estimated to cost about $80 million including
escalation. Proprietary equipment essential to the process and items in
limited supply, which are estimated to cost together about $11 million and
whose timely supply is critical to the efficient completion of the project,
are being procured following bidding from lists of qualified suppliers, which
have been approved by the Bank. In addition, standardized items worth $14
million will be procured from the same suppliers as for PUSRI III. Items
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, and totalling about $1 million
are being purchased from suppliers on the basis of suitability, availability
and price. The list of items falling into this category has been approved by
the Bank. A preference of 15 percent or the customs duty, whichever is lower,
will be allowed to qualified Indonesian manufacturers for the purpose of
evaluating international competitive bids. Bid evaluation will be PUSRI's
responsibility with assistance as required from the engineering firms con-
tracted and from Scientific Design (U.K.), the Technical Advisor. To expedite
deliveries PUSRI has assigned its procurement officers to the main offices of
the two engineering firms, in Houston and Tokyo. Engineering and project
management services ($26 million) have been procured as stated in para. 44.
46.       The project is expected to be mechanically completed by November 1977
and be in commercial production by about February 1978.     The procurement
procedures described above would advance by twelve months the completion of
the project with consequent savings in capital cost as well as in fertilizer
imports.
47.       The proceeds of the Bank loan will cover the foreign exchange cost
of a part of the imported equipment, materials and engineering services, in-
cluding project management and pre-operating expenses. A separate list of
goods and services has been prepared for SFD financing under a parallel
financing arrangement. The SFD loan would also finance a part of local costs
associated with those items. It is estimated that by the time the proposed
loan is considered by the Executive Directors, $60 million will have been
committed out of a foreign exchange cost of $145 million, with expenditures
amounting to $20 million. In view of the advanced stage of project implemen-
tation, it is recommended that the Bank retroactively reimburse the Government
up to $7 million for expenditures on goods and services (estimated at $3 mil-
lion for goods and $4 million for services) made prior to loan signing.
PUSRI: Organization and Finances
48.       PUSRI is generally considered one of Indonesia's best managed
large industrial enterprises. PUSRI is a wholly Government-owned limited
liability company with a supervising Board of Commissioners (Dewan
Komisaris), consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Finance,
Industries and Agriculture, and a four-man Management Board (Direksi),
which has responsibility for the Company's day-to-day operations. Members
of both Boards are appointed by the Government.
49.       PUSRI's present staff of about 2,600 is expected to increase by
60 per cent in the next three years. At the same time the Government is



- 15 -
relying upon PUSRI to provide the staff and training facilities required to
implement the investment program in the fertilizer industry as a whole.
Recruitment of staff for PUSRI IV is expected to begin in January 1977; only
the recruitment of graduate accountants is expected to be a potential problem.
During negotiations, the Government and PUSRI agreed to review present salary
scales, including fringe benefits, of professional staff and submit a report
to the Bank by June 30, 1977 (Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement).
50.       PUSRI's record of staff training is good.    In order to meet addi-
tional demands which will be placed on the training system within the next
three years, a National Fertilizer Production Training Center will be estab-
lished under the project, at a total cost of $1.7 million.
51.       Under the current fertilizer marketing system, the Government buys
all locally-produced fertilizers at a fixed price and sells it again along
with imported fertilizers at a set price to approved distributors including
PUSRI. Although PUSRI has been operating efficiently, it made only small
profits or incurred losses during 1970-73 because of rising costs of inputs
other than gas, and low prices fixed by the Government for locally produced
fertilizers. To rectify this situation the Government increased its purchase
price of PUSRI - produced urea by stages from Rp 28,200 ($68) per ton in
1972 to about Rp 63,910 ($154) per ton in the last quarter of 1974. This
price, comparable to the current world export prices of urea (about $110-150
per ton after peaking to more than $300 per ton during 1973-74) would, under
normal circumstances, be adequate to provide sufficient revenue for PUSRI to
be financially viable. However, under a system of fertilizer rationing in-
troduced in Indonesia in October 1973 to control illegal marketing, all whole
salers became PUSRI's agents. Therefore, PUSRI has to finance the distribu-
tion of not only its own fertilizer but also of imported fertilizers--which
in 1975 accounted for twice the volume of PUSRI's own fertilizer sales--and
wait up to ten months to be paid for sales to farmers on the basis of vouchers
issued by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) the State Bank for Agriculture.
52.       This system has led to excessive receivables and inventories,
part of which represent the Government's fertilizer stockpiling program,
under which PUSRI's current assets increased to $380 million equivalent
by the end of 1975 and were financed, under Government direction, exclusively
by short-term borrowing mainly from BRI at an average interest rate of 1.3
percent per month. Therefore, a combination of factors created a heavy
burden on the Company's finances. Agreement was reached during negotiations
for the PUSRI III loan that Government would compensate the Company for its
marketing losses. The Government also agreed to make up the forecast losses
for 1975 by payments in four equal quarterly installments to PUSRI. The
forecast of shortfalls for 1976 was to be agreed between the Government and
the Company by October 1, 1975. This arrangement was to be operative until
the assets in service in PUSRI's marketing department had increased sub-
stantially with the execution of the $140 million Bank-assisted Fertilizer
Distribution Project (Loan No. 1139-IND of July 10, 1975) which is expected
to be operational in early 1977. Subsequently, a reasonable rate of return
on assets in operation was to be ensured by the Government.



- 16 -
53.       The Government has not compensated PUSRI fully for its marketing
losses in 1975, as it had underestimated the marketing losses for the year
and had made inadequate provision in its 1975/76 budget to meet those losses.
Events described in Part I (The Economy) also caused the Government serious
and unanticipated financial difficulties. Of the 1975 losses the Government
had paid $18.2 million equivalent as of end-March 1976 to cover the losses
through the third quarter of 1975.    To meet the marketing losses during the
fourth quarter, and subsequently, the Government proposed that in view of
prevailing budgetary constraints, 50 percent of the marketing losses would be
paid to PUSRI within 45 days of presentation by PUSRI of the quarterly financial
statements and the balance within four months of the presentation of accounts
for each quarter. Usually, PUSRI's financial statements are submitted to the
Government 6-8 weeks after the closing of each quarter. The above proposal has
been accepted by the Bank subject to a Government commitment undertaking not
to ask PUSRI to pay (a) its liabilities on account of interest to BRI before
the Company receives payments from the Government to cover stockpile marketing
losses; and (b) its principal repayment liabilities on BRI loans to import
fertilizers before PUSRI recovers its receivables from the sale of imported
fertilizers. Payment of $9.2 million due to PUSRI by the Government under the
terms of the above agreement to cover 50 percent of the fourth quarter 1975
losses have been made on time (April 15, 1976). Further, the Bank has been
informed during negotiations that adequate provision has been made in the
Government budget for 1976/77 to cover PUSRI's marketing losses and also
provide necessary financing for the Company's capital investments.
54.       The marketing margin allowed by the Government which fixes ferti-
lizer selling prices is inadequate. The margin has not been increased
significantly during the last two years when transportation and other operat-
ing costs of the marketing department have increased sharply. The Government
has informed the Bank that this issue is being examined by an inter-ministerial
committee, and that a decision will be taken following the recommendations of
the Committee in June 1976.
55.       As agreed under Loan No. 1139-IND (Fertilizer Distribution Project),
PUSRI is obligated to propose for the Government's approval by October 1976 a
methodology to separate fertilizer stockpile accounts from the normal marketing
accounts of PUSRI. During negotiations, PUSRI and the Government informed the
Bank that by mid-1977, PUSRI will start reporting the fertilizer stockpile
accounts separately in its financial statements.
56.       Further, under Loan No. 1089-IND (PUSRI III Fertilizer Expansion
Project) the Government has undertaken to withdraw the prevailing fertilizer
distribution control system as fertilizer shortages are overcome and fertilizer
prices decline to a normal level. During negotiations, the Government informed
the Bank that it is awaiting the results of the National Fertilizer and
Pesticides Distribution Study now underway, and will, upon completion of that
study in June 1976, review the fertilizer distribution control system and
initiate measures to reduce fertilizer costs. Such measures would help
increase consumption by making fertilizers freely available at a common price
and thereby help reduce the fertilizer stockpile. It would also allow producers/
distributors like PUSRI to assume direct responsibility for recovering their



- 17 -
receivables rather than collecting them through BRI under the present system,
thus reducing the excessive time now required to recover receivables.
57.       As noted earlier, the Government sets and controls the price aL
which domestic fertilizer is sold to the Government, currently Rp 63,900
($154) per ton of urea c.i.f. Java. Under the terms of the agreement
reached with the Government for the PUSRI III loan, from 1977 the Govern-
ment is obligated to enable PUSRI to earn at efficient operation a reasonable
rate of return on assets in service and to allow adequate debt service cover-
age at all times. During negotiations these assurances were reaffirmed.
58.       As PUSRI I was financed entirely with Government equity, the
Company had initially no debt to service. However, with the construction of
PUSRI II the outstanding debt of the Company increased sharply with the debt/
equity ratio reaching 72/28 in 1973, partly because of negative or low earn-
ings during 1970-73 and partly because the Government delayed the conversion
to equity of some of its loans to bring the debt limit to the stipulated level
of 50/50 until the full project cost was known. The Government has now con-
verted an appropriate share of PUSRI's debt into equity, bringing the debt/
equity ratio to 49/51 at the end of 1975. Confirmation of the amendment of
PUSR['s Charter to increase the Company's authorized capital and of the
provision of adequate paid-in capital will be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 6.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement).
Financial Projections
59.       Total sales from the project are expected to increase from about
$53 million in 1978 (for 10-1/2 months of operation) to $73 million in
1981 (the first year of sales equal to full production). Net profit after
tax would increase from about $4.5 million in 1978 to $17.0 million in 1982,
but would decline the following year to $10 million because the 5-year tax
holiday for the project would end in 1982. However, the ratio of net pro-
fit to sales in 1983, the first year of tax payment, would still be at a
satisfactory level of 14 percent.
60.       From the beginning the project is expected to generate enough cash
to more than meet its debt service requirements. Beyond 1982, the debt
service coverage would weaken because of the assumed tax payments (45 per-
cent of pre-tax profit) but it will still be at an acceptable level.
61.       The project's incremental financial rate of return before taxes
would be 21 percent (19 percent after tax) which is satisfactory. Sensi-
tivity analyses indicate that the financial rate of return would remain
satisfactory even after allowing for the possible adverse effects of a reduc-
tion in capacity utilization, a decline in sales, an increase in capital or
operating costs or delays in plant completion. Analyses also indicate that
the rate of return is more sensitive to decline in sales revenue than to
increases in operating and capital costs; assuming a 20 percent decrease in
sales revenue the financial rate of return would still be 14 percent.



- 18 -
62.       The consolidated projections for PUSRI's entire operations show
that during 1976-83 total sales from its production would increase by about
117 percent, and the net profit would increase 2.2 times. The Government
has agreed to maintain PUSRI in a sound liquidity position by maintaining
an adequate current ratio. The debt/equity ratio of the Company is estimated
at 49/51 in 1976 and is forecast to improve significantly to 26/74 in 1983
if all earnings are retained and no further expansion is undertaken.
63.       During negotiations, the following undertakings similar to those in
the PUSRI II and PUSRI III Agreements were obtained (Articles III and IV of
the Project Agreement): (a) PUSRI will have subsidiaries only with the prior
approval of the Bank; (b) without Bank consent, PUSRI will not incur additional
long-term indebtedness other than ($361 million equivalent) for PUSRI III,
PUSRI IV and the related fertilizer distribution projects if as a consequence
the debt/equity ratio would exceed 55/45 for the company; (c) PUSRI will
depreciate fixed assets of new projects over 12 years of their operating life
and other assets in conformity with sound accounting principles; (d) without
Bank consent, PUSRI will not declare dividends except out of accumulated net
earnings nor pay dividends, until PUSRI IV shall have produced at 80 percent
capacity for 12 consecutive months, i.e. 456,000 tons, or if its current
assets would be less than 1.4 times its current liabilities and (e) except for
PUSRI III, PUSRI IV and related distribution projects, and normal replacements,
PUSRI will not except for certain specified purposes, invest more than $5 mil-
lion per year without Bank consent until PUSRI IV produces at 80 percent
capacity for 12 consecutive months, and (f) the Government will help PUSRI
maintain a debt service coverage annually of at least 1.5 times by allowing
PUSRI adquate prices.
Risks
64.       The project design is based on modern commercially proven tech-
nology for economically efficient large-scale production, thus minimizing
technical and obsolescence risks in the project. Further, urea has been
produced and marketed by PUSRI during the last 10 years and it is the most
common fertilizer used in Indonesia. However, the project could face finan-
cial problems for lack of realistic Government policies regarding fertilizer
prices. In the past, the Government responded to PUSRI's financial needs
rather slowly. The Government has agreed to meet its obligations without any
delay in the future according to the Government formula for payment accepted
by the Bank (paragraph 53). In addition, the gas gathering and distribution
system for PUSRI III is one year behind schedule. Any further delay in the
implementation of the gas project would affect both PUSRI III and PUSRI IV
as the system designed for PUSRI III has to be expanded to serve PUSRI IV as
well. The Bank is closely watching the progress of the gas project and the
Government has agreed to provide promptly adequate funds for the project.
Commercial risks in the sale of urea, including possible exports, are also
present, but these are considered comparatively minor, since Indonesia will
have to use most of the project's output if it is to meet the food require-
ments of a rapidly expanding population.



- 19 -
Economic Benefits
65.       During the late 1960's, world fertilizer prices were depressed due
to excess supply and consequently, investments in new fertilizer projects
declined sharply. The widespread realization in the early 1970's of the
production possibilities of high yielding varieties of seeds used in com-
bination with other agricultural inputs led to a rapid increase in the demand
for fertilizer, which was not matched by increased supply. As a result, fer-
tilizer prices increased steeply; the price of urea increased to about $300
(f.o.b. exporting countries) per ton in 1974 compared to about $70 per ton at
the end of the 1960's. However, after some importing countries built large
stockpiles and then stopped buying, prices declined and reached the level of
about $110-150 per ton by April 1976. World fertilizer prices are likely to
remain at the present levels until the stockpiles are used up and imports are
resumed, but the large-scale expansion at higher investment cost per ton of
capacity required to meet future urea demand in the world would require a
selling price of $160-190 (f.o.b.) per ton of urea in 1975 dollars. Defer-
ment of investment in new urea projects due to prevailing low prices may
again result in shortages leading to sharp price increases as experienced
during 1973-74. Therefore, fertilizer-deficit countries have to depend on
increased domestic production to combat periodic surges in world fertilizer
prices.
66.       The proposal for PUSRI IV is supported by Bank investigations which
employed a programming model to determine the least cost solution with regard
to investment, production, importation and transportation in the region to
meet long-term fertilizer requirements. Indonesia, with its ample and under-
utilized resources of natural gas, has the potential not only to achieve self-
sufficiency in nitrogeneous fertilizers but also to emerge as a significant
exporter to neighboring countries like Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines
and Vietnam. In this respect, Indonesian fertilizer enjoys the competitive
advantage of comparatively low freight costs.
67.       For the purpose of the economic analysis of this project, it has
been assumed that by the time PUSRI IV begins production in 1978 the world
market price f.o.b. for bagged urea would be $160 per ton in constant 1975
prices. On this basis, the economic rate of return of the project has been
estimated at about 29 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the
economic rate of return remains very satisfactory (at about 22 percent) under
a wide range of possible adverse circumstances, including lower urea prices,
increased capital and operating costs, and delays in plant construction.
68.       The project would augment annual urea production by 513,000 tons
and would contribute to an increase in rice production of about,2 million
tons annually. Further, the net foreign exchange savings at full production
would amount to $72 million annually. While the direct employment created
by the project would be low at 850 jobs, the project would create substantial
indirect employment especially in construction, transportation, storage and
distribution of fertilizer, and in the exploitation and distribution of
natural gas. An important benefit of the project would result from the pro-
vision of training facilities for not only PUSRI personnel but also for staff



- 20 -
of other fertilizer plants, existing or proposed, in Indonesia. Under the
training program during the next three years, about 3,800 persons are to be
trained in various fields such as finance, administration and accounting,
plant operation and maintenance, marketing and distribution.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and P.T. Pupuk
Sriwidjaja, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft re-
solution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately.
70.       Features of the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 31, 34, 38, 40, 43, 49 and 63 of this
Report. Special conditions of effectiveness are the execution of the financ-
ing agreement between the Government and PUSRI, the amendment of PUSRI's
Charter to increase the Company's authorized and paid-in capital and the exe-
cution of the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement and the fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness including the right to make withdrawals there-
under (Section 6.01(b), (c) and (d) of the Loan Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
April 29, 1976



Il~tof 4 Pace*
REFERENCE ECOUNTRIES (19Y0)
TOTAL       1904.3                                            MOST RECENT
10810.       219.8                          1960       1970     ESTIMATE            BANGLABESH       INDIA            PHIL1PPINES *
GNOP PBR CAPITa (US&)                          4.0         100.0         830.1                 80.0        110.0        220.0
POPULAT ION 639 VIIAL STATISTICS
POPULATION 01-YR.  ROLLION             95.4       115.4         le4.4                 70.6        536a.1         36,.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KR.                             50.0         61.6         65.6                696.0         118.0        123.0
PER SQUARE KR. iONIC. LAND...                                       426.0                846.0         350.0
VI1TAL STATOISTICS
CRUDE BIRTHi RATE PER THOUSAND             43.0   4     6 2.6        42.0                 *4.0          36.0         45.0
CRUDE DEAtH RATE PER THOUSAND              21. a    .k .0           1.0                  21.0         16.0         12.0
IN4FANT NOOETALtTY RATE OITHOU)          125.30           1..                             40.0        130.0          60.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TR$P             48.0         47.0         51.0                 40.0          50.0         56.0
GROSS REPRtODUCTION NATE                    2.6          3.2          3.1                   3.1          2.9          3.3
POPALATIOR SMOATFH RATE (I)
TOTA0L                                      2.1          2.0          2.0                   2.?7         2.3          3.0
URBAN                                        ..           .6          3.2                    ..4.0                    4.0
URBAN POPULSIION (I OF TOTAL)                15.0         17.          16.0                    ..         2.0          32.0
AGE STRUCTUM (PERCENT)
0 TO 16 YEARiS                           612.1         44.1         46.1                    ..          2.0         63.1
IS TO 64 YEARS                             55'.4        %1.4         53.4                    ..         15.0         53.6
63 TEARS AND OVER                           2.5          2.5          2.5                    .           3.0          3.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                          0.8a          0.9          0.9                   .           0.9a          0.9
ECONOMIC DEWPENOENCY RATIO                    1.3            .           1.5                   t. .2 La                  1.5
FAMILY 'LAPANINGI
ACCEPTORS (CUMULAI1VE. THOU)                 ..        24.2        4808.2                     ..                    276.9
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMtEN)                  ...                        ..                                 .8.0
EMPLOYMENT
T_OTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)              36600.0            -.      0100.0               22100. 0    221000.0 /b 12300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (13               68.0..                    62.0                  71.0         71.0         51.0
UNEMPLOYED (I Of LAROR FORCE)l                5.4          2.0          5.    L                .           3.0 La        7.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
IO PRIVT    INOCOM1E REC-D BY-
HIGHEST 202 or POPULATION                                                                 lb....4.3 2'j~
HIGHEST    51X OF POPULATION                 .....                                        I.    4       25.1d
LOWEST    201 OF POPULATION                  4..                        .                    .77
LOVES?    60: CF POPULATION                  ..           ..            ..319.
3ISIRI9UTION Of LAND TWNERSHI-
I   IORNED BY TOP 10! Of OWNERS              68. a..                                         36.0
I DANEO By SMALLEST 101 OWNERS                3.00          I..                               10
HEALTH RHO NUTRITION
POPIWLAIION PER PHYSICIAN                 61000.0      2 76 50. 0    308oo.0               7600.0 /     48c0.1
POPULATIO0N PER NURSING PRESON                  ..       010.0a      6960.0               72030.0       5110.0
POPALAIIDN PER HOSPITAL BED                1350.0       1720.0       1450.0                1)20.0       1620.3        850.0
PEA CAPITA SUPPLY OF 
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENiTS)              89.0         69.0         63.0                     .         9.3. 0       8 5.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAYJ                    41.0         43.10        38.0                    ..          3.0         45.0
-OF AHICH ARIqAL ANDRPULSE              15.0         14.0            ...                              6.0         2 2. 0
LEEATH RATE (JTHOU) AGES 1-4                    .            ..                                 ..                       7.0
EQUCAT ION
A1.JU11E0 ENR0LLMfENT RATIO
PRIMRYT SCHOOL                             60.0   a     7.           800                   50.0 d       79.         119.0
SICONODARY SCHOO0L                          6.0         120          160                   15.  &~      20.0         45.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                               ':::
IPIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   12.0         12.0         12.0                  jo.0La       12.0         10.0
VOCAlT IONAL ENROLLRENT
CZ OF SECOADARY)                           20.0 Li      28.0         26. 0                  1.0          6. 0/a      10.0 ILkb
ADULT LITERACY RtATE (1)                     47.0             .        6 0.0 aL
HOUSING
PRSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                      .                        1. 6
OCCURPIED OWDLLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (fl...                                                   44 .0 La..                                      66. 0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)...                                              64.0                     ..                     23. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                           ...                      9.6                     ..                       6.0 1
CONSUMPT lOl
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POIP)                1.0       114.0            .                    6.0         2 1.0        65.0
PASSENGER CAfRS (PER THOU POP)                 I0.0         2.0          I.                    1.0          1.0          a.6
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                  19.0         20.0         23.0                 10.0        111.0         23.01.
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                      0.2          0.2          6.2                    .           0.3          1.2 La
SEE NOTES ANO DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page0 I f pages
NOTES
Unless other,,ise noted, data for 1960 refer i. any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Heces        Esto-iat  betwe-
1971 & 1973.
-    tre Philippines has been selected asa   bjective country for its geographical sieilarity sad beCause oIf its     Papprnt advanced stage of
econnict  dse-iopcsn.
bNONOElIA       1960    /a  Excludes West Irias    a/    1963;   La  1961-63.
1970    /a   Registered applicants for work.
MOST TECENT ESTIMATE; /a Unemployed workers seeking their first job; lb 10 years and over, ability to read end write in either
Latin or non-Latin characters;     &g  Inside only.
BARNXADIEIR     1970    Ia   1966467, households;    ab  Registered, not all practicing in tftn country;    /c   Governmonrt hospital establishments
only;    jd  Approximate enrollment as percentage of population in 6-10, and 11-15 age groups respectively;         /e  Up
to end of esnond 1evs..
INDIA          1970    /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 60 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;       /bAID estimate of labor force In
age gro.up 15-59. IBRRD report gives a figume of 180.Li m-llion based on 1971 population census. The difference is
due t.ochanges in the definition of a worker. In the 1971 cenus, persons were classified only son the beasi of their
main octivities.   This ied to the exclusion of several categories such as housewives;       /j Registered applicants
for work;   /d   1967-68, households;    /a  1965.
PHILtIPPiNES 1970 /a Poblic education only; ab 1967; Ic Imports only.
RIO, April 21, 1976
rTEPiITITONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORIS
land Toss (toai                                                                        Popultion per, nursIng person - Population divided by somber of practi-
ioa  oa  urface oren comprising land area end inland esters,                     clo   mal sod female graduate nurses, "trained- or 'Icertified'- curses,
ARcm- - Mos t Iesoc cotnate of a0rio.u-1ro      sres used tmp-caily or per-              and auxiliary personnel with training or espejrieo..
cuneoly for crps. postorcu, macbet & hitches ga-deso or to its fellow               E2    tolffhgia           e   - Population divided by sn-ber of hospital
bidssvimlipubflc and privaet           generol and specialized hospital
fliP Der -acita (uss) - Tn? per capita estinates ot narket prices, ea1co-                 and rehabilitaioin centers: exceludes nursing hones sod establish-nets
Loted iv same rooversion method as World Rash Atlas (297"-7L boots),                   for costodial and preventive care.
Per cap1ita sp     of rol-ries (% of requirenenis) - Conpoted from
Posulution ond vital stothtien                                                            enr    euvlent of net food supplies avoilobla in country per
Pcpolstion (oid-yr. eillion) - us of Jufly first; if net noallable, ave-raecapita p3er daY, avanlsble suppliso comprise domestic production,
of two end-ye.r estinateo.                                                              imports lass ex ports, and changes In stock; net oupplase exclude
animal feed, sa    ,quantities usead In food processing nod losses
cocoulation dnsity -k.rsnaeh           Mid-year population per square b,il-               in distribotion; requiremento were estimated by FAD based on plysi-
meer(17isines,f 15tota  area.                                                   ological needs for normal activity and health considering environ-
Plopuat     dniy-prsuehofagrie, lend - Conputed as above for                             mental temperature, hotb weights, age and sex distributions of popu-
sericuitorac kend ocky.                                          ~~~~~~~~~lation, and allowing 10% for waste at houshold leve.
Vital statistics                                                ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~Per capt  upl  fpotein (gasprda)-     Protein contact of per
Cital staisticsep     thuad-Anullv                                                        capita nerth.supplyoofidfood per day; n-et suPPly of food is defined an
Crudebirfb rae pe  thouand  inoal lve brths  er tousad ofnid-above; requiremsents for all countries established by U50k Economic
),ear poopvlation; suno11Y five-year averages ending in 1q60, 1970 and                  Research Services provide fa- a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
0~75 for devlopng co-trnes.                                                            protein per day, and 20 grace of anixal and pulse protein, of which 10
Cmivdonii mte  er  hoo-nd - t,--1, death,s per thousand of mod-year                 greno should is animal protein; th..a sin~d-rdo ar      l-owr then th-os
pplo    ioc;  soafl I ie'  e    aeage    ending in 1967, 7970 and 1975                  of 75 graee of total protein and 23 gram     of animal protein as an aver-
for developing countries,                                                               age for the world, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Infant omortalit~ rate (/thou) - innual deat.hs of infants under one yearPer cap0ita rotei                  supl    frmanimal ard pulse - Protein supply of food
sfag .er1000   00~ binto,                                                       deie'rma         imas end pulses in grams per diay.
Life exectac     at, birth (yro) - Average comber of yearsa of life remain-                   rateh  'tisl,O  a ea 1  - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
fog atbirth; Imoly fiv-  eravrgoedn           Ic16,190sd97yas,to cilre .in thi                                   g   ru;sgetd          sa    niao       fsl
for developing countries,              ge    dn     n16,17         n   95nutrition.                              i   g    ru;sgetd.            nid.t,o           1
Gross reProduction rate - iverage number of live daughters a woman cdli1
hear in her normal reproductive period if ohs experiences present age-                Edocation
spec i!c fertility rates; oouollY five-year vavrages onding in 1960,                  Adutderlletrto-prs                 ssho       - Enrollasni of all ages as
1971 and 1975 for developing countr-es.                                                 p ernaeo       rmr     colaepplto;icue                    hlrnae
Pplotoo- growth rote    :(9)-total- Coopound annual growth rates of mid-                6-i1 Years but adiusted for different lengths of prisary education,
year popula tion for 19504,   _190-7, and 1960 to nest receot Year.                     for countries; with universal educafion, enroilmect nay exceed 100%
Population groth rote (9) - urban - Cncputsd like growth rate ef total                    since some puPils are below or above the official school age.
pcp]aioo     di_rn:eiiin             fubnaea         a   fetcnaa                       dutderollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-
biity o data amng countries,                                                           r   educaio requires at least four years of approved primary instruc-
U~b  Roul.ion(%of totl     - Ratio of urban~ to total population;                    tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training Instruction for
differen  defi   orturban areas may affect coemar..bility of data                 puIPile of 12 io 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
amone countries,                                                                        ecuded.
msdtrutr      eret        hlrn(-byas,wrigae(50yas,                                   Yearsof aghoalixng provided (first and sagond leel) - Total years of
an crtired       years and over) eas percentages of mid-year Population.                schooling; at secondary level, vocatinlisrcion say be partially
ARe deDendency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end 65 end over to                    Or completely excluded.                   L   n
those   dfaesc 15    athroug  61oainlenol                                                                   t(     fsecondary) - Vocational Institutions include
FE            ~~raio-Ratio Of population under 15 and 65 and over                 tehia,idsri~i or oher programs which operate independently
to  e    orforce in age group of 15-64 years.                                         or as departments of secondary Institutions.
faiy    lnnn      acetors (u       laie    th)-Cu        ation abe ofaml                  r'ltta        ate   )- Literate adults (able to read and write) as
acetri   fbrt      oto     eicsudrasis            ofnaioan amiygo96itjW                           TESTildult POPulation aged 15 years and over.
planin    program since inception.
family Planning  -'nr     9o      aried women) - Pmeretages of married
women of chldbarngae          1-t yas      wousgirh-otrlreicsroom                                       aivers a) - Average number of persons per ream to occupied
to all married women in sane age group,conventi; o                               wa   togs in urban areas; dwellings exclude nono-pernanent
estructures and unoccupied ports.
flclomnet.                                                                              Occupied dwellingsOr  wIthou ativ  esn,ic  piped twae  (9)- Occupied conventional dwell-
amdf-          ad         oe -oonialacieprosinlding                                      tasi      ra    ndrna      ra   wthout inside or outside pipad water
t      'Wfrosahunmledht excluding housewives, students, etc.;                       facilities as percentage    falocpiddelns
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                  daast       lcrct       9Of all dwlinsd         Collnvetonldeligswt
- Agiculurallabr force (in farming,                 electricitY is livirng quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban,
,forestry,lTImntigiand fishing) as percentage of total labor force..                     and na-al areas.
lYd   of labor force) - Onemployed are usually defined as persons              Rrldeln           contnected in electricity()- Computed as above for rural
hESir   ablie andw   l3lingt take ajob, outofa.Job on agiven day,                    25   ellingoosy.
remanedout  f amb,and seeking work for a specified minimumn
period not exceeding one week; nay not be comparable between countries                Cons,tignva
due to different definitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g.,            ~       ll~l              rte              l  ye     frciesfrrdobod
inuraoyncentafu      ttsis       apesrvy,cmusr               ns    ysn                  cos6ts    g enGralpfljic pj   thousand Of POPulation; excludes moo-
insurance,                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~license  receivers in countrIes and in Yrear  wham registattion of
In   dl-otr Percentae of prit. ino,ma(botb in~aoh -radio sets was in effect; data for recent yeoar mAy not be cemparable
incom   ditrbuio    -   ecnaeo         rnsicm         bt    ncs      n                    ince eat countries abolished licensing.
kind)f receaived byrcet5,itn             0,poet2%           n    ors                              as    e   hu      ) - Passenger cars comqprise notor cars seat-
00% of populatlen -                                               ta~~~~~~~~~ig        pesthneih  rsons; excludes ambulances, hearses and
Distribution of land owners~~~~~~~~~p                              military vehicles -
Distibuton  olan  owerhi    - Perc.entages of l,and owned by wealth-               MwtricIsItAk!t,ES         nl- Annual consumption of industrial, nser
iest 10% and poorst 10% of lend owers.                         cial, publi   and prfiatWe"lectricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
Health acd Nutrition                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~generally based en Production data, without allowance for losses in
He~atlthond Nutritio  ln    -PPltodviebynmrofp.tiggrids but allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
~~resicin          'ro - Popuclato  divided by unumbert ofepactcin                     riotcm ) - Per capita annual consuWtion in kilogram
qual    afot     amdclfcolltuieriylee.d                                                  on     etic Production Plsis met imports of ngsprint.



Page 3 of is pages
ECONOMIC INDICATOPS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                       ANNUAL RATS OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ lg .                                 1960 -65          1965 -70           19714
ONP at Market Prices         22479          100.0                       1.9                4.9              5.6
Gross Domestic Investment     4330           19.3                       3.3               11.5             19.2
Gross National Saving        4336            19.3                        5.8               5.1             64.8
Current Account Balance         6             0.0
Exports of Goods, NFS         6755           30.0                       1.5                7.8              0.5
Imports of Goods, NFS        5527            24e6                       0.2               10.9             33.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTrVITY IN 1971
Value   1/                            2/                  V. A. Per Worker
Value Added-                  Labor ForceV
US$ _Mln.    K3 Mln                                              US           % 
Agriculture                   4221        44,8                30.5      69.0                   138         65
Industry                       1915       20.3                 3.0       6.8                   638        300
Services                      3279        34.9                 8.3      18.8                   395       185
Unallocated                     -          -                   2.4       5.4
Total/Average            .           .                   -          .
9415      100-. 0      m7                100.0                             100.0
GOVEaNMENT FINANCE
Central Governxmnt
( pX)          s     L
179         17.          15.
Current Receipta                           1759        17.9        15.0
Current Expenditure                        1001       10.2         10.8
Current Surplus                                         7.          4.2
Capital Expenditures                        966         9.8         7.3
External Assistance (net)                    234        2.4         3,2
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                  1970         1971         1972        1973        1974         1975
TfBillinn Rp. outstanding end period)            June
Money and Quasi Money                      330          469          695         987        1452         1776
Bank credit to Public Sector                57          129           58          37       -    2       -  29
Bank Credit to Private Sector              306          451          555         936        1126         1837
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Honey as % of GDP            9.9         12.8         15.2        14.6         14.8
General Price Index(Sept. 1966=100)        612          638          680         891         1253
Anmual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         12.3          4.2          6.6        31.0         140,6
Bank credit to Public Sector              - 5.0         126.3       - .5.0        3 76.2
Bank credit to Private Sector               77.9         47.4         23.0        68.6         20.3
NOTE: All coTrversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/  Conversion at an exchange rate of Rpe 390 = US$1.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.     fUnallocatedC consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not aiailable
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 4i pages
TRADE PAYMINTS AND CAPITAL FWkIh
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-7 4)
1972     1973     1974                                               US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $) Est.
011                                2260     59.1
Exports of Goods, NFS         1757     2957     6755              RtLbber                             359      904
Imports of Goods, NFS         1875     3170     5527              Timber                              513     13.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)   -ll     -_   3     17TZ              Palm Oil                             93      2.4
Tim                                 104      2.7
Interest Payments (net)      - 46     - 5o     - 106              Coffee                               84      2.2
Workers' Remittances            -         -
Other Factor Payments (net) - 318     - 543)    -1116
Net Transfers                - 364    - 593     .1222               All other commodities             410     10.8
Balance on Current Account    - 42    -+                                 Total                       3823    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      258      290       471             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. i9i&
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               447      624      1072                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization              -   70    - 138      231
Subtotal                    377       m8 _6                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            5W5
Capital Grants                   ..       ..                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            181      208)    _                   Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i           9           147)
Increase in Reserves (+)       432      325       690             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19714-'
Gross Reserves (end year)      574       806     1473
Net Reserves    (end year)     458       783     1473               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             7.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         4        4        4
of which: Petroleum           2        2        1
Exports                       877     1348     4556
of which: Petroleum         877     1348     4556       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (4ar. 31 , 1976) (Million US
IBRDl       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                  -
Through July   1971            Since AOutstanding & Disbursed                                      93.8         332.0
ThroughJulySince August 1971    Undisbursed                         367.2        229.8
US $ 1.00 -P R. $.-            US $ 1.00 =- R  . 415          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        461.0         TW
1.00 = US $ 0.0027             1.00 = US $ 0-0024
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services#
with oil exports net of factor payments and imports of the oil sector
not available
not applicable
April 21 , 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDCNESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS ( as of )Erch 31, 1976)
Loan/                                                        US $ Million
Credit       Fiscal                                     Amount (less cancellation)
Number        Year          PuBpse                       Bank   IDA Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                  11.0
154           1969    Highway                                  28.0     0.2
155           1969    Agricultural Estates                     16.0     0.1
165           1970    Electricity Distribution                 15.0     0,2
193           1970    PUSRI Fertilizer                         35.0     0.0
194           1970    Second Agricultural Estates              17.0     2.2
195           1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation         18.5     1.0
210           1971    Telecommunications Expansion             12.8     0.2
2U1           1971    Fisheries                                 3.5     0.2
219           1971    Education                                 4.6     0.4
220           1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation          14.5    17
246           1971    Seeds                                     7.5     2.5
259           1971    Tea                                      15.0     3.8
260           1971    Second Highway                           34.0     4.1
275           19?2    Third Technical Assistance                4.0     1.0
288           1972    Second Education                          6.3     4.7
289           1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation         12.5     1.8
300           1972    Population                               13.2     8.o
310           1972    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)      10.0     1.5
318           1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation         8.5     4.3
319           1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates              11.0     6.8
334           1973    Second Electricity Distribution          40.0    15.6
355           1973    Beef Cattle Development                   3.6     2.4
358           1973    North Sumatera Smallholder Development    5.0      2.9
387           1973    Third Education                          13.5    10.9
388           1973    Third Highway                            14.0      6.9
399           1973    1bst Java Thermal Power                  46.0    31.2
400           1973    Smiallholder and Private Estate Tea       7.8     7.3
405           1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation            50.0     30.3
428           1974    Palo Gadung Industrial Estate            16.5    14.7
436           1974    Private Development Finance Co. (PDFCI) 10.0      8.2
451           1974    Fourth Technical Assistame                5.0     4.1
479           1974    Bai Tourism                              16.0    15.2
480           1974    Fisheries Credit                          6.5     6.1
514           1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension           30.0     29.4



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
(Continued)
Loan/                                                        US $ MiJllion
Credit     Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellation)
Number      Year          Purpose                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
1005        1974     Railway                           48.o               46.5
1040        1975    Jakarta Urban Development          25.0                16.8
1049        1975    Five Cities Water Supply           14.5               13.2
1054        1975    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                    50.0               37.2
1089        1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion       115.0                49.5
1100        1975    Sixth Irrigation                   65.0                64.4
I127        1975    Fourth Power                       41.0                40.8
1139        1976    Fertilizer Distribution            68.o                6403
1179        1976    Agricultural Research and
Extension                      21.5                21.5
1197        1976    National Resource Survey           13.0               13.0
and Mapping
TOTAL                             461.0    561.8      597.0
of which has been repaid                     -          -
461.0    561.8
Amount Sold               0.1
of which has been repaid 0.0        0.1
Total now held by Bank and
IDA (prior to exchange
adjustment)                 460.9    561.8
=mm= =   =.=m,
Total undisbursed                 367.2    229.8     597.0
a/ Approved in FY 1975 but signed in FY 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
STATEKENT OF IFC INVESDMENTS (as of February 29, 1976)
Fiscal                                                           US $ MIllion
Year                                                      Lpan    Ecuity   Total
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               10.6    2.5      13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                   Textiles              2.5    0.8       3.3
19?1     P.T. Primatexco Indonesia     Textiles              2.0    0.5       2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                 2.8    0.4       3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles              4.5    1.5       6.o
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism               1.0      -      11.0
1973     F.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                5.4    0.7       6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco Indonesia     Textiles              2.0    0.3       2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan
ELectronics              Electronics          0.9      -        0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                    Dsvlp. Fin. Co.        -     0.5       0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles              2.4    0.6       3.0
1974     P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               '0      1.5       6.5
TOTAL                49.1    9.3      58-4
Leass sold or
repaid and
cancelled     20.2    1.5      21.7
TOTAL now held       28.9    7.8      36.7
Undisbursed
Jcintdng parti-
cipant's portion)     5.4    1.5       6.9



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 127:      Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Effective Date: March 25, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
All civil works were completed on March 31, 1976. Additional
drainage work will be carried out under Loan 1100-IND. The proposed Irrigation
VII Project would provide funds for tertiary development under this project
and other on-going irrigation projects. The closing date has been postponed
by one year to allow for payment of late accounts. The adequacy and timeliness
of operation and maintenance of completed irrigation rehabilitation projects
has been recently discussed with the Government. As a result the Government
has allocated for operation and maintenance for the present fiscal year an
amount double that of last year's budget.
Cr. No. 154:      Highways:   US$28 Million Credit of June 20, 1969;
Effective Date: October 2, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975.
Rehabilitation work, of acceptable quality, has been
completed. The work accomplished exceeded the project's original target.
The program for improved highway maintenance included in the project has
been completed. A project completion report is being prepared for issuance
before June 30, 1976.
Cr. No. 155:      Agricultural Estates:   US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
With improvements in management and much higher inter-
national prices, particularly for palm oil, prevailing in 1974, the
financial position of the estate groups has improved. The field and
factory standards have now been raised to a good technical level and
the managements have been advised to concentrate on cost control in order
to prepare for the time when produce prices may become less attractive.
The combined efforts of the management, consultants and IDA missions
to review project implementation are yielding good results. The closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1976 to enable payment to con-
sultants for services for other rubber estates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
Cr. No. 165:      Electricity Distribution:   US$15 million Credit of
October 29, 1969; Effective Date: June 1, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The closing date was postponed to December 31, 1975, to
allow for payment of small amounts outstanding. The project completion re-
port will be prepared in conjunction with that for Credit No. 334.
Cr. No. 193:      PUSRI Fertilizer:   US$35 Million Credit of June 15,
1970 (as amended May 21, 1973); Effective Date:
January 15, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The urea plant has successfully passed its performance
test and is operating at close to 90 percent of rated capacity. The gas
gathering and transmission system is also completed and sufficient gas is
being delivered to the plant. The closing date has been postponed to December
31, 1976 to allow for delivery and installation of remaining equipment.
Cr. No. 194:       Second Agricultural Estates:  US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
After initial delays, there have been considerable
improvements in management and these, combined with high prices, particular-
ly for palm oil, have resulted in the two estate groups being put in a
much stronger financial position. On the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort
is necessary to improve agricultural standards and tapping methods. With
the rapid expansion of investment of the palm oil group (PNP VI), there is
a need to employ expertise in financial planning, control and management,
which are now the main constraints to efficient development. This estate
group is undertaking action in this respect. The closing date has been
postponed by one year to allow payment for remaining equipment, civil
works and consultants' contracts.
Cr. No. 195:       Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1976.
Problems of quality and progress of construction still
exist, but the project entity assisted by the consultants are tackling
these vigorously, and the situation is improving, although not sufficiently
to make up for earlier delays. Costs are likely to be double the overall
appraisal estimate, due to inflation, but the Government will provide any
additional funds required. Completion of disbursements will be about two
years behind the original schedule.
Cr. No. 210:      Telecommunications Expansion:    US$12.8 Million Credit
of July 13, 1970; Effective Date: February 18, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The project has been completed except for the installation
of the telex exchange at Medan, which is now expected to be in service by



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
June 1976. The delay in completion of the Medan telex exchange was due to
late completion of a building to house the exchange. The closing date of
the Credit has been extended up to June 30, 1976, which should be suffi-
cient to allow for payments of outstanding contracts. The audit of finan-
cial statements for FY1973 is expected to be completed in May 1976 and
efforts are being made to ensure timely audit in future.
Cr. No. 211:      Fisheries:   US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13, 1970;
Effective Date: January 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
The project is about two years behind the original schedule due
to delays in engaging consultants and in executing contracts for the shore
facilities. There has been a substantial project cost increase but the
project is still expected to be financially viable due to the greatly
increased skipjack prices. Government has recently appointed new project
management. The first stage of operation of project facilities is expected
to start shortly.
Cr. No. 219:       Education:  US$4.6 Million Credit of November 6, 1970;
Effective Date: January 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Project implementation in the Department of Education
is satisfactory. Civil works for the five Technical Training Centers
(TTCs) have been completed. About 90 percent of the equipment has been
purchased and about 60 percent delivered and installed. All TTCs will
operate at full capacity by January 1976 when the new academic year begins.
Over 500 technical teachers have completed or are about to complete their
training. Technical assistance financed by the U.K. for the project is
also satisfactory. Disbursement has improved considerably. Revised
total project cost is now about 40 percent above appraisal estimate. The
Government will finance the cost overrun. The project is expected to be
completed about three months ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 220:       Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction remains about two to three years behind
schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in preparation
of contract document, late financial allocations, heavy rains in the 1973 con-
struction season and, more recently, slow response by GOI to high inflation
rates and consequent civil works costs overruns - have been mainly overcome,
but time lost cannot be regained. Estimated project cost is 50 percent above
the appraisal estimate, but with higher rice prices on the world market, the
project's economic rate of return remains over 20 percent. The closing date
has been postponed by 18 months as a result of project delay.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
Cr. No. 246:       Seeds:  US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Significant progress has been made in the construction
of the irrigation infrastructure and in land development at the National
Seeds Corporation (NSC). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and is
now 70 percent completed. The inadequacy of NSC management at the opera-
tional level is reflected in technical production problems, low yields of
seed and high costs of production. Increasing nation-wide production prob-
lems caused by prevalent disease, pests and insect losses has resulted in
government authorities now giving certified seed production high priority.
Cr. No. 259:       Tea:  US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded
appraisal expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation
of three additional factories. Project completion, estimated for December
1977, can probably be advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating
pressure on available funds and the main challenge for the two PTPs will
be to reduce working capital requirements, as well as overhead and indirect
costs, and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260:       Second Highway:  US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction work is about 80 percent finished and should
be completed by August 1976, about one and a half years behind schedule.
The delay was caused largely by slow progress in mobilizing contractors,
difficulties in equipment delivery, heavy rains and landslides. The closing
date has therefore been postponed by 15 months to December 31, 1976. Design
standards for the road sections have been slightly lowered and some savings
have been achieved, which, together with other savings have partly offset
construction cost increases of 12 percent.
Cr. No. 275:       Third Technical Assistance: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Effective Date: February 25,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress on this project is satisfactory. The closing
date has been postponed by another year to complete disbursements for
ongoing studies.
Cr. No. 288:       Second Education:  US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This agricultural training project, being implemented
by the Department of Agriculture, is about 16 months delayed because of



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
late appointment of consultant architects, lack of counterpart funds, delays
in bid analysis and in awarding contracts. As a result, civil works,
which were to be completed already, have not commenced. Furniture and
equipment procurement have therefore been deferred. Unlike the physical
aspects of the project, the educational aspects are generally on schedule.
Total project costs are now estimated to be 90 percent higher than the
original estimate. Government has budgeted for the cost overrun. Disburse-
ment, which has been slow, should improve since civil works contracts have
now been awarded.
Cr. No. 289:      Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Civil Works and equipment purchases for the main project,
Pekalen-Sampean, are proceeding but completion of civil works will be
about two years behind schedule. Due to inflation, project costs are
likely to be substantially higher than appraisal estimates. Consultants
for the various studies are at work with their counterparts. Disbursements
are also on schedule.
Cr. No. 300:      Population:   US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress of this project is generally satisfactory.
Steps are being taken to improve preparation and implementation of project
components concerned with communications, research and evaluation. All
vehicles have been procured and good progress is being made with equipment
procurement. The civil works section of the Project Implementation Unit
functions well but is underutilized because of delays in making policy
decisions. Construction costs will exceed appraisal estimates by 135
percent. Population Education is now being introduced into school curricula
after a successful trial. Despite its limitations, the national family
planning program, of which the project is an integral part, is expanding
annually and showing good results.
Cr. No. 310:      Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I):   US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This credit is fully committed.
Cr. No. 318:      Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:   US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Progress on this project is slow but funds are expected to
be fully committed by September 30, 1977. Due to substantial cost increases,
only about half of the anticipated tonnage will be rehabilitated.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
Cr. No. 319:      Fourth Agricultural Estates:   US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The physical progress of the project is ahead of the
appraisal schedule. The financial position of the estate group is dif-
ficult due to an unsatisfactory debt/equity ratio. Measures to improve
the situation are under review.
Cr. No. 334:       Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits
165-IND and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays
due to procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result
the project is two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties
have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. No further delays
are therefore expected.
Cr. No 355:       Beef Cattle Development:   US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date; March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project imple-
mentation. Government's budget allocation has been insufficient; and fi-
nancial management and coordination have been weak. The last supervision
mission undertook a thorough project review and its recommendations, which
include major changes in project scope and objectives, are presently under
discussion with Government.
Cr. No. 358:      North Sumatera Smallholder Development:    US$5 Million
Credit of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project performance, which had suffered from severe fin-
nancial and organizational difficulties, has improved greatly. Physical
progress is encouraging; rubber planting and rice intercropping are now
on schedule. There is some room for improvement in financial management,
in which consultants are assisting. Total project costs are now estimated
at about three times the original estimate of US$10 million. Disbursements
are expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 387:      Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1,
1973; Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about 10 months behind schedule, mainly due
to insufficient top management staff and paper shortages last year. The paper



ANNEX 11
Page 10 of 14
shortage has been overcome and about 32 million text books will be printed by
January 1976, about four months behind schedule. Steps are being taken to
strengthen project management and to improve arrangements for expert services.
Measures to improve project implementation have been discussed and agreed with
the Government. The book testing and teacher training programs are on schedule,
but their results have not yet been evaluated. Procurement of instructional
equipment will be completed by early 1976.
Cr. No. 388:      Third Highways:   US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections
in the project was started early in 1974 under two contracts and is now 60
percent completed. Construction has been delayed mainly because of long
mobilization periods and heavy rains. Project costs will likely exceed
original estimates (including contingencies) by 57 percent mainly due to
sharply escalated prices. The training program has been completed success-
fully.
Cr. No. 399:       West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 mw units at Muara
Karang were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal.
This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase
in the total project cost of more than 100 percent. Government will provide
the additional funds required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets
in its financial recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit
Agreement.
Cr. No. 400:       Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:   US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Planting is presently slightly behind schedule but
it is expected that targets will be achieved or even exceeded by the end
of the 1975/76 planting season. Project nurseries are well organized
and field work is proceeding well. Also non-participating farmers have
benefitted from the project. Total project costs are estimated to be
double the amount originally envisaged and project management is attempting
to achieve cost reductions. Due to the high prices for tea (about twice
the level expected at the time of appraisal), the economic rate of return
is still satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
Cr. No. 405:       Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
In view of the rapid and continuing increase in the cost
of sugar factory machinery and the more recent shortage of budgetary funds,
the scope of the above-mentioned project has been reduced by the deletion of
six minor rehabilitations from the project description. The revised project
consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories and the construction
of a new factory. Credit funds have been reallocated from the minor to
the major rehabilitation and to the new construction.
Cr. No. 428:       Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Of 430 ha earmarked for the project, about 270 ha had been
acquired by end 1975, and 108 ha had been developed to readiness for
occupatfon.   42-factories are operating on the estate and 35 more are in
various stages of construction or commissioning. The rate of new applica-
tions for land allotment has been slower in recent months than in the past,
and the estate is intensifying its promotional efforts. Overall, operations
are profitable, despite an increase in construction costs.
Cr. No. 436:       Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After a long start-up period and difficulties in finding
and recruiting qualified local staff, PDFCI has now reached the operating
stage. Commitments have started and are expected to increase rapidly
as PDFCI's own operational capability improves.
Cr. No. 451:       Fourth Technical Assistance:   US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479:       Bali Tourism:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial diffi-
culties. Tender documents for all major infrastructure works were issued
in January 1976. The earliest possible completion date has shifted from
February 1979 to October 1979. Budgetary allocations as requested by the
Bali Tourism Development Corporation for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Negotia-
tions with one group of investors are in progress but otherwise investor in-
terest appears to be low. Promotional efforts to attract additional investors
have been intensified in 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
Cr. No. 480:      Fisheries Credit:   US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Lending for fishponds is now on schedule, and the contract for
construction of shore facilities at Ambon has been awarded. There may how-
ever be some delays in skipjack vessel construction due to procurement pro-
blems. Although significant cost increases are envisaged, the project is
still expected to be financially viable because of increases in fish prices.
Cr. No. 514:        Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:   US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The consultants are designing works and preparing contract
documents. The first civil works contract is expected to be let in August 1976,
about one year behind the original schedule.
Loan No. 1005:       Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been
slow due to poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now
improved. Bids have been received for most items and the bulk of the con-
tracts should be signed soon. Passenger traffic in 1975 is slightly lower
than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic has continued
to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive power, which
should improve towards the end of 1976. Although tariffs were raised in May
1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25 percent and freight revenues
by about 10 percent, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate further, as
operating costs have continued to rise at a faster rate.
Loan No. 1040:       Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress on the Kampung Improvement Program has been
very good; costs were less than estimated, allowing additional work to be
undertaken. Execution of the Klender Sites and Services Scheme is one year
behind schedule due to disagreements about site boundaries. Most consultant
contracts commenced early in 1976.
Loan No. 1049:       Five Cities Water Supply:   US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the
project is running 8-10 months behind schedule. This delay together



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
with higher rates of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase
project costs 20-25 percent above the appraisal estimate. Water Enterprises
have now been established in each of the five cities and good progress has
been made in their staffing. The anticipated interdepartmental decree which
would govern the relationship of the Water Enterprises to the Central Govern-
ment's Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has not been issued; it is now
proposed to clarify this relationship in a Presidential Decree which is
being drafted.
Loan No. 1054:     Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):   US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements initially were slower
than expected, but they should increase in the second half of FY76. The
progress of this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1089:     Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
Work on the PUSRI III project is proceeding according to
schedule. Work on the related gas pipeline is experiencing delay, but steps
are being taken to expedite implementation.
Loan No. 1100:     Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Consultants for the project and technical assistance advisors
have been selected. Construction work is about five months behind schedule
due to the delay in selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1127:     Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The options for a third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang, which
were included in the tenders for the first two units financed under Credit
399, have been exercised. The project is on schedule and expected to be
completed during 1978.
Loan No. 1139:     Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress design is satisfactory. About 60 percent of the
equipment and materials required for the project have been ordered.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
Loan No. 1179:    Agricultural Research and Extension:    US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on February 23, 1976.
Loan No. 1197:    National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:    US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 2, 1976.
Loan No. 1236:     Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan is expected to become effective on August 13, 1976.
Loan No. 1237:     Fourth Education Project:  US$37 million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan is expected to become effective on July 14, 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
INDONESIA: THIRD FERTILIZER EXPANSION PROJECT: PUSRI IV
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:           P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI)
Amount:                $70 million equivalent
Terms:                 15-1/2 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace with
interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:       The Government would onlend the loan proceeds
to PUSRI at the same repayment term, but at an
interest rate of 12 percent per annum. The Govern-
ment would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:          The detailed engineering, construction and start-
up of a fertilizer plant at Palembang, Sumatera,
to manufacture about 1,000 TPD (tons per day)
of ammonia and 1,725 TPD of urea; training of
PUSRI's staff and staff employed in the national
fertilizer industry in Indonesia in the operation
and maintenance of plant, as well as in financial
and accounting procedures. The plant's facilities
would include:
1. a single-train ammonia unit with a capacity of
about 1,000 metric tons per day;
2. a single-train urea unit with a capacity of about
1,725 metric tons per day;
3. a natural gas pre-treatment section;
4. the usual off-sites and auxiliaries required
to support such plant, including, inter alia,
an ammonia storage tank, urea storage and loading
facilities, cooling towers, water treatment facili-
ties, a 15 MW gas turbine power generator, a bag
making plant and expansion of the existing jetty.
The project is part of a larger program which will
also include the development of a gas gathering
and distribution system and a fertilizer distributLon
facility.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
Estimated Cost:
Sumwary of Capital Costs
In Rp billion                  $ million
Local  Foreign /a   Total    Local  Foreign /    Total
Equipment and Spares  b     2.1     34.6       36.7     5.0      83.2        88.2    62.8
Duty and Taxes /c            -       -           -        -       -           -       -
Erection                    2.0      -           2.0    4.8       0.1         4.9     3.2
Civil Construction          1.8      2.4        4.2     4.3       5.8       10.1      7.2
Engineering Services &
Project Mpnagement /d     0.5     10.9        11.4     1.2     26.3        27.5    19.6
Preoperating and Start-
up Expenses /e            1.6      1.3         2.9     3.9      3.0         6.9     4.9
Jetty                       0.1      0.4         0.5     0.2      1.1         1.3     0.9
Housing                     0.5      al.         0.6    14       0.1         1.5     1.1
Base Cost Estimate
(BCE)                     8.6    49.?        58.3     20.8   119.6       140.4    100.0
Contingencies:  Physical    0.7      3.3         4.o     1.8      8.o         9.8     7.0
Prioe       0.7      2.1         2.8     1.6      5.1         6.7     4.8
Installed Cost            10.0      55.1        65.1    24.2    132.7       156.9   111.8
Incremental Working
Capital                   2.7      0.5         3.2     6.5      1.3         7.8
Project Cost               12.7     55.6        68.3    30.7    134.0       164.7
Interest During
Construction              4.3      4.6         8.9    10.3     11.0        21.3
Total Financing
Required                 17.0     60,2        77.2    41.0    145.0       186.0
/   Including indirect foreign exchange requirements of about   $1.0 million equivalent.
v   c.i.f. cost at plant site.
/c Exempt from duty and taxes
/d  Including    $1.4 million for bonus for contractors for project completion ahead of
schedule.
e   Including   $0.9 million for training services.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
Financing Plan:
$ Million
Bank Loan                                       70.0
Saudi Fund for Development Loan                 70.0
Government's equity contribution                46.0
Total                             186.0
Estimated Disbursements of Bank loan:
Calendar Year      1976    1977     1978     1979
Annual           39.0    26.5      4.1       0.4
Cumulative       39.0    65.5     69.6      70.0
Procurement Arrangements:      International competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines
are being used -- independent of the source
of financing -- for equipment and materials
estimated to cost about $80 million in-
cluding escalation. Proprietary equipment
essential to the process and items in limited
supply, which are estimated to cost together
about $11 million and are critical to the
timely completion of the project, are being
procured following bidding from lists of
qualified suppliers, which have been approved
by the Bank. In addition, standardized items
worth $14 million will be procured from the
same suppliers as for PUSRI III. Items cost-
ing less than $50,000 equivalent each, and
totalling about $1 million are being pur-
chased from suppliers on the basis of suit-
ability, availability and price. The list
of items falling into this category has been
approved by the Bank. A preference of 15
percent or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, will be allowed to Indonesian
manufacturers for the purpose of evaluating
international competitive bids. Bid evalua-
tion will be PUSRI's responsibility with the
assistance as required from the engineering
firms contracted, Kellog Overseas Corporation
(U.S.) and Toyo Engineering Corporation (Japan),
and the Technical Advisor, Scientific Design
(U.K.). To expedite deliveries PUSRI has
assigned its procurement officers to the main
offices of the two engineering firms, in Houston
and Tokyo.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
Technical Assistance:          Kellogg Overseas Corporation will have over-
all responsibility for construction, erection
and start-up of the complete fertilizer plant
which will be supplied as follows:
(a) the ammonia plant and all offsites and
auxiliaries are being designed and pro-
cured by Kellogg; and
(b) the urea plant is being designed by Toyo
Engineering Corporation which will procure
the equipment for shipment to the plant
site ready for erection by Kellogg.
Rate of Return:                28.6 percent.
Appraisal Report:              No. 998-IND dated April 21, 1976
Industrial Projects Department



IERD 12C69
\TyHAILAND                                                                                                                      10                      5
s~~~~~~IvQ  I                                                                                                                 LOCATION    OF FERTILIZER PLANTS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOAIO   F ETIIERPANSS
EXISTING AND PROPOSED
*                           ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~       ~~So aA  China  Sea  -1 -I_I i- I                                                             TERTLIT LANTS
-'         K~~MALAYSiA
ETAAc  Rueletumpur ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tEXI5TING
AREGLA-L MARKETIING OFFICES OF PATTI
*  PSPi'S INLANT  DEPOTS  PER JAVA  SEE IEAT-11A22J
MALAYSIA                           0                                             IU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLE TERMINALS
BULK S.IPLMENT OF UREA
INGAPORE                                                                                                   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnee-.- . NI TI.AMENT OF OTHER FERTILIZAP EAVN- HAULII
HLMAHERA                       AD
-YPROVII,C&AL BOUNDARIES
-.-INTERNATIENVA BOANDARIES
PROVINCE                               0-                                                       -kpp        V                   KEDAA SW  22                          260
IA                                                                                              L~~~~~~~~~~~~*PIALIATE  AeLWES)AA
2_CENTRAL JAVA
3 WEST JAVA                                                                                                                                                   TF.o
4S SECIAL CAPITAL                                   B                                                                                        0                                NeUN,    /6/AN  AY 
TERRITORY JAKARTA    ALA       C1    1                                     rsrsl                                                             dACAMA
5SPECIAL TERRITOTE JOGJAKARA                                                                                         *K,,,d-r           -euR
A6NORTH SITMATERA5
5' 7 JAMEI                                                                                                                                                                                        S~KkneT,.
SRIAU-
9WEST SUMATERA                                                                          aLD                                                                                                                z
ISQSUTH SUMATERA                                                                                                           "IBIU                     e
11 LAMPUNG
12 SPECIAL TERRITORY ACRE-H                                                                                                                                                4 o   ' 
14 WEST KALIMANTAN                                      MASAVA
15 EAST KALIMANTAN
16 SOUTH KALIMANTAN
IA CENTRA KALIMANTAN                                                                                                                  k-'                     2F.eedALIIL , nepS e                   Eok
15SOUTH SELAWESI                                                                                    Mm                          __       ~       'pl*d,noL LpAL lA
IT9CENTRAL USULAWESI                                                                 2ALS.LLefAA
20 SOUTH-EAST SULAWESI
21 NORTH SULAWESI                   /~on           0ce~ARee                              00                                                                          A      T     E      T      O             V
22 MALUKU                                           Ic                                                                                                                    U2O      0     00    S              0
23 EA.I                                                                                               f      WIEp 
24 WEST NUSA TENGGARA                                                                                  MAB              RATAIETLSO 
25 EAST NUSA TENGGARAATTAAA90                                                                                                                                                                  X
26-IRIAN JAYA                                                                                                      ,0t                                                      KILOMETERS
TAO'              lAP~~~~~~~~10         LIT-                    IS'                   1205                   LAS'                   IS35IA                                        1BA'



