CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1254 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Third Fertilizer Expansion
Project - Pusri IV)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Dated May 20, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA (hereinafter called PUSRI).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy million dollars
($70,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that PUSRI agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a financing agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PUSRI, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to PUSRI on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PUSRI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PUSRI shall carry out Part A, Part C and Part D
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, industrial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PUSRI in (i) carrying out
for PUSRI the design, detailed engineering, procurement, erection,
construction supervision, start-up and initial operation of the
facilities included in Part A of the Project, (ii) management of
Part A of the Project, and (iii) the training of PUSRI's staff
in the operation and maintenance of said facilities, financial
management, accounting, administration, and distribution and market-
ing of PUSRI's products, PUSRI shall employ consultants acceptable
to the Bank whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be or shall have been procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. -
Section 2.04. (a) PUSRI undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such


﻿insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freeiy
usable by PUSRI to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PUSRI shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part A, Part C and Part D of the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) PUSRI: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part A, Part C and Part D of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Part A, Part C or
Part D of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods, works
and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿5
(c) PUSRI shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PUSRI and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. PUSRI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, PUSRI shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PUSRI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PUSRI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PUSRI of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Financing Agreement.
Section 2.08. Three months after presentation to PUSRI of
the study on a national fertilizer and pesticides distribution
system being carried out by the Borrower under the Fertilizer
Distribution Project (Bank Loan No. 1139-IND), or such later date
as the Bank and PUSRI shall agree, PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank
a detailed financing plan and implementation schedule for Part C
of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Nanagement and Operations of PUSRI
Section 3.01. (a) PUSRI shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound business, industrial,
financial and marketing practices under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management assisted by qualified staff in
adequate numbers. To that end, PUSRI shall gradually increase the
number of its trained staff as required for the prompt and effective
discharge of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) PUSRI shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets, except in the normal course of its business.
(d) PUSRI may create, acquire or have any subsidiary only
with the prior approval of the Bank. For the purposes of this
paragraph, the term "subsidiary" means any entity of which a ma-
jority of the outstanding voting stock shall be owned, or which
shall otherwise be effectively controlled, by PUSRI or by one or
more subsidiaries of PUSRI or by PUSRI and one or more of its
subsidiaries.


﻿-7-
(e) PUSRI shall, promptly as required, take all action within
its powers to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations and to retain such land, interests in land and
properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, powers,
franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or useful in the
carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. PUSRI shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. PUSRI shall at all times make all reasonable
efforts to continue to build up and maintain an effective, finan-
cially viable and economic transportation, marketing and distribu-
tion organization and facility for its products.
Section 3.04. PUSRI shall operate its production facilities
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors and, to
that end, PUSRI shall monitor and treat effectively the ecologically
harmful discharges of said facilities.
Section 3.05. Not later than December 31, 1976, or such later
date as the Bank and PUSRI may agree, PUSRI shall propose a plan
to the Borrower concerning the operation or modification of its
oldest urea and ammonia units, and inform the Bank thereof.
Section 3.06. Not later than June 30, 1977, or such later
date as the Bank and PUSRI may agree, PUSRI shall complete a review
of professional staff remuneration, and shall furnish to the Bank
a copy of such review.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PUSRI shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PUSRI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish
to the Bank within two months after the end of each calendar quar-
ter copies of said financial statements for such quarter; and
(iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of PUSRI and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI
shall not make expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, for
fixed or capital assets (including investments in or loans to other
business entities) until PUSRI's plant included in the Project
shall have produced an aggregate of at least 456,000 metric tons
of urea during a period of twelve consecutive months, except:


﻿-9-
(a) expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required
for repair, maintenance or replacement of assets;
(b) investments in short-term marketable securities solely
for the purpose of temporarily employing its idle funds;
(c) expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required
for: (i) the carrying out of the Project or any other project to-
wards whose execution the Bank or the Association provides financ-
ing; (ii) the establishment of facilities for the production,
storage and distribution of liquid carbon dioxide and dry ice;
(iii) the establishment of facilities for the production, storage
and distribution of hydrocarbon feedstocks from condensate re-
covered from the natural gas supply; (iv) the relocation of PUSRI's
headquarters from Palembang to Jakarta; and (v) the establishment
of a urea formaldehyde plant; and
(d) other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, not
exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $5,000,000 in any
fiscal year.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PUSRI undertakes: (i) that its depreciable fixed assets relating
to manufacturing operations shall be fully depreciated on a
straight-line basis within a period of twelve years starting at
the close of the fiscal year during which such assets will have
been placed into service; and (ii) that all its other depreciable
fixed assets shall be fully depreciated in conformity with appro-
priate financial principles and accounting practices.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.05. For the purposes of this Section and Sections
4.06, 4.07 and 4.08 of this Agreement:
(a) the term "debt" means all indebtedness incurred by PUSRI,
including indebtedness assumed or guaranteed by PUSRI;
(b) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred, and the term "short-term debt" means any debt other
than long-term debt;
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent that it is
drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and (B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee is entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(d) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources less operating and administrative expenses, including
taxes, surcharges and other levies, and interest and other charges
on short-term debt, if any, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on long-term debt;
(e) the term "net earnings" means net revenues less adequate
provision for depreciation and interest and other chargeti on long-
term debt;


﻿- 11 -
(f) the term "long-term debt service requirements" means
the aggregate amount of amortization, interest and other charges
payable in respect of long-term debt during any fiscal year;
(g) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of
Rupiah debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is obtainable by PUSRI, at the time of
such valuation, for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if
such other currency is not so obtainable, at such reasonable rate
of exchange as shall be acceptable to the Bank;
(h) the term "current assets" means cash, assets readily
convertible into cash, and all other assets which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted within twelve months into
cash or assets readily convertible into cash;
(i) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities due and
payable and all other liabilities which would be due and payable,
or could be called for payment, within twelve months, including
the portion, if any, of long-term debt maturing by its terms within
twelve months; and
(j) the term "equity" shall mean PUSRI's unimpaired paid-in
share capital, retained earnings, surplus and reserves (including
any revaluation reserve but excluding any reserve allocated to
cover specific liabilities).


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI
shall not incur any long-term debt, other than under the Financing
Agreement, if, at any time after the incurrence of such new debt,
the aggregate principal amount of long-term debt of PUSRI then in-
curred and outstanding would exceed the amount of PUSRI's equity
at such time by more than twenty-two per cent (22%).
Compliance with the provisions of this Section shall be deemed
to be compliance with PUSRI's obligations set forth in Section 4.06
of the Project Agreement (Second Fertilizer Expansion Project -
PISRI III) between the Bank and PUSRI, dated February 28, 1975,
and in Section 4.07 of the Project Agreement (Fertilizer Distri-'
bution Project) between the Bank and PUSRI, dated July 10, 1975.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PUSRI shall:
(i) at all times maintain a ratio of current assets to
current liabilities of at least fourteen to ten;
(ii) at all times maintain a ratio of net revenues earned
during any fiscal year to long-term debt service re-
quirements of the next following fiscal year of at
least fifteen to ten;
(iii) meet out of its revenues accountable to each fiscal
year its full operating, administrative and distri-
bution expenses (including adequate provisions for


﻿-13-
maintenance, straight-line depreciation, taxes, sur-
charges and other levies, and interest and other
charges on debt) accountable to the same fiscal
year; and
(iv) earn in respect of each fiscal year a reasonable
return, after taxes, on its assets (except fixed
assets not-yet in service).
(b) For the purposes of making the calculation under subsec-
tion (a) (iv) of this Section, the assets of PUSRI shall be deemed
to be revalued from time to time in accordance with appropriate
valuation principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) PUSRI shall not declare any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its capital shares except out of its
accumulated net earnings;
(b) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.07 (a) (i)
of this Agreement, PUSRI shall not pay any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its capital shares (other than
dividends or distributions payable solely in such capital shares)
or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly
for any consideration, any of such capital shares if, after giving
effect to such action, the current assets of PUSRI would be less
than 1.4 times the current liabilities of PUSRI; and


﻿(c) PUSRI shall not pay any dividend or make any other dis-
tribution with respect to its capital shares until PUSRI's plant
included in the Project will have produced an aggregate of at
least 456,000 metric tons of urea during a period of twelve consec-
utive months.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PUSRI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify PUSRI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made unader this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
ITMAFRAD                           440098 ITT,
Washington, D.C.                   248423 RCA or
64145 WUI
For PUSRI:
P.T. Pupuk Srividjaja
Jln. Let. Jen. S. Parman No. 104
Post Office Box 2371
Jakarta, Indonesia


﻿-17 -
Cable address:                    Telex Number:
PUSRI                                       44249
Jakarta                                      4446o
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any docunents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PUSRI may be taken or executed by the Pres-
ident of PUSRI or such other person or persons as the President of
PUSRI shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
the person or persons who will, on behalf of PUSRI, take any ac-
tion or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by PUSRI pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
By Is/ Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods and works shall
be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Suppliers shall be prequalified as described in paragraph
1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines, taking into account the advice
furnished by the process licensors on potential suppliers.
(b) Identical or similar items to be procured for Part A and
Part D of the Project shall be .grouped together, wherever practicable,
for the purpose of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of
items shall be subject to the concurrence of the Bank.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items that are proprietary to the process design of the plant
included in the Project and items of limited availability whose
timely supply is critical to the efficient execution of the Project,
including spare parts related to such items, shall be procured on
the basis of prices negotiated after solicitation of quotations from
a list of prequalified suppliers acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 20 -
2.   Items estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each
shall be purchased from qualified suppliers on the basis of suit-
ability, availability and price of such items in accordance with
appropriate business practices.
3.   Before purchasing any items under the procedures set forth in
B.1 and B.2 hereof, PUSRI shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank
with the items so to be procured and the suppliers to be approached
for such items.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry), f.o.b. or f.a.s. price for im-
ported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufac-
tured goods; (ii) to an f.o.b. or f.a.s. price then shall be
added the reasonably estimated cost to PUSRI of freight and in-
surance for carriage of the goods to Palembang, such estimate to
be based on current conference liner tariffs whenever available;
(iii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iv) the cost to PUSRI of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:


﻿- 21 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of PUSRI and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Grou   B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 22 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further com-
parison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not,
the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. PUSRI shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure tu be fol-
lowed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The-list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by PUSRI to the Bank for its comments before the appli-
cants are notified, and PUSRI shall make such additions to, dele-
tions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 23 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the speci-
fications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PUSRI shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform PUSRI and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission


﻿- 2~4-
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contrae!t to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together, in the
case of any such contract costing the equivalent of $50,000 or more,
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PUSRI and
state the reasons for such determination.


