CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1254 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Fertilizer Expansion
Project - Pusri IV)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 20, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) Part A, Part C and Part D of the Project will be carried
out by P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (hereinafter called PUSRI), with the
Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to PUSRI the proceeds of the Loan as herein-
after provided, and Part B of the Project will be carried out by
Perusahaan Pertambangan Minak Dan Gas Bumi Negara (hereinafter
called PERTAMINA), with the Borrower's assistance;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Saudi Fund
for Development (hereinafter called the Saudi Fund) a loan (here-
inafter called the Saudi Fund Loan) in an amunt equivalent to
$70,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Saudi
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the. Saudi Fund; and


﻿-2-
(D) the Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and PUSRI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PUSRI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PUSRI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement;
and
(c) "Rupiah" and "Rp." mean Rupiah in currency of the
Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy
million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
timz by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A
and Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be or shall have been procured in accordance
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of
the Project A,reement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitm.,..t
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. PUSRI is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause PUSRI to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or ap-
propriate to enable PUSRI to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available to PUSRI the funds
required to carry out Part A, Part C and Part D of the Project,
including the proceeds of the Loan, under a financing agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PUSRI, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financ-
ing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Financing Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause PERTAMINA to carry out
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
comformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering


﻿-7-
and industrial practices, in time to meet the gas requirements of
PUSRI's plant constructed under the Project, and shall provide or
cause to be provided to PERTAMINA, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.03. Not later than December 1, 1977, or such later
date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall
complete a study of the markets to which nitrogenous fertilizer
produced in Indonesia could be profitably exported, shall in con-
sultation with PUSRI adopt an export strategy for such fertilizer
based on the results of such study, and shall inform the Bank of
such strategy.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign axchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-9-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benL'it of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. So long as the Borrower shall own or control the
-       majority of the voting rights in the meetings of shareholders of
PUSRI, the Borrower, before nominating or voting for the election
of any member of the Board of Management (Direksi) or the Board of
Directors (Dewan Komisaris) of PUSRI, shall inform the Bank of the
names and qualifications of the persoas it intends to nominate
and for whose election it intends to vote and shall afford the Bank
a reasonable opportunity to express its views on the qualifications
of such persons.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, promptly as needed, take all
measures which may be necessary or desirable to assist PUSRI to
continue to build up and maintain an effective, financially viable
and economic transportation, marketing and distribution organiza-
tion and facility for its products.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time exchange views on the means to meet Indonesia's requirements
for agricultural nutrients.
Section 4.05. During any period in which the price and dis-
tribution of fertilizer in Indonesia is controlled by the Borrower,
or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, the Borrower shall
not take any action with respect to fertilizer sold in Indonesia
which would prevent PUSRI, operating efficiently, from earning a
reasonable return, after taxes, on its assets (except fixed assets
not yet in service).
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause PUSRI at all times to
be supplied at reasonable prices, under agreements in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, with gas of adequate quality      -
in the quantities required by PUSRI for the operation of its plant
included in the Project at full production.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of PU(JSRI under the Project Agreement, and such
default shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and to
PUSRI;
(b) Any provision of PUSRI's charter dated January 3, 1970,
as amended on Nay 2, 1970 and April 18, 1975, shall have been
amended or abrogated without che prior approval of the Bank;
(c) PUSRI shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PUSRI
or by others whereby any of the property of PUSRI shall or may be
distributed among its creditors; and
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PUSRI or for the suspension of PUSRI's operations or for the
transfer of a major portion of PUSRI's assets to another entity
without the prior approval of the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Saudi Fund Loan made to
the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Saudi
Fund Loan Agreement, or
(B) the Saudi Fund Loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply       -
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
te,rmination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Sction 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:


﻿-13 -
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and PUSRI.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e)
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 114-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of PUSRI have been duly authorized or rat.ified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement
on behalf of the Borrover and PLSRI, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(c) PUSRI's charter has been amended to increase PUSRI's
authorized capital to not less than one hundred forty-five billion
Rupiah (Rp.145,000,000,000) and an amount of not less than thirty-
seven billion Rupiah (Rp.37,000,000,000) of such capital has been
paid in; and
(d) the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement has been executed and
delivered and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
that Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, except
only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, shall have been
fulfilled.


﻿-15-
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within tae meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, PUSRI, and
is legally binding upon PUSRI in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and PUSRI, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and PUSRI in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date August 19, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:               Telex:
Ministry Finance             DEPKEV  JKT 44319
Jakarta                      DITJMON JET 46415
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-17-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Equipment and materials                         35,800,000
(2) Engineering services,                           24,800,000
project management and
pre-operating expenses
(3) Unallocated                                      9,400,000
TOTAL            70,000,000


﻿-19 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $7,000,000, may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably est.mated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 20-
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
I


﻿-21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.   Fertilizer Plant
The establishment of a fertilizer plant at Palembang
(Sumatera) designed to manufacture about 570,000 metric
tons of urea per year, with facilities to protect the
plant's environment from potentially harmful effects of
its operation, including the plant's engineering, con-
struction, start-up and initial operation at rated
capacity for fifteen consecutive days and at not less
than eighty per cent of rated capacity for sixty con-
secutive days thereafter.
The plant's facilities will include:
1.   a single-train ammonia unit with an annual rated
capacity of about 330,000 metric tons;
2.   a single-train urea unit with an annual rated
capacity of about 570,000 metric tons;
3.   a gas pre-treatment unit;
4.   expansion of fertilizer bag-making facilities;
and


﻿- 22-
5.   the usual off-sites and auxiliaries required to
support such plant, including, inter alia, one
year's supply of spare parts after PUSRI's accep-
tance of the plant, an amnnia storage tank, a
gas turbine power generator coupled with a waste
heat boiler, urea storage and loading facilities,
and maintenance, housing and hospital facilities.
Part B.   Gas Supply
The establishment of gas supply facilities adequate
to ensure a regular supply in sufficient volume of
the gas needed for the operation and maintenance of
said plant, including the looping from Simpang Y to
PUSRI, the looping from Cambai to Simpang Y and the
tying-in of the gas fields between Rambutan and
Cambai.
Part C.   Fertilizer Distribution Facilities
The establishment and acquisition of fertilizer distri-
bution facilities adequate to distribute and market the
fertilizer produced by said plant, including, inter
alia, transport facilities, port and bagging facilities
and inland storage depots.
Part D.   Staff Training
The establisbrent of a fertilizer production training
center and the training of staff of PUSRI and other
Indonesian fertilizer producing organizations. The


﻿-23-
training will be provided for operational, mainte-
nance, managerial, administrative, and distribution
and marketing staff.
*         *        *         *         *
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by Septem-
ber 30, 1978. Part B and Part C of the Project are expected to be
completed consonant with the operational requirements of Part A
of the Project.
The Loan is uade for the purpose of assisting in the financ-
ing of the execution of Part A and Part D of the Project only.
I;


﻿- 24 -                                 0
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1979                                2,916,000
June 15, 1980                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1980                                2,916,000
June 15, 1981                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1981                                2,916,000
June 15, 1982                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1982                                2,916,000
June 15, 1983                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1983                                2,916,000
June 15, 1984                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1984                                2,916,000
June 15, 1985                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1985                                2,916,000
June 15, 1986                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1986                                2,916,000
June 15, 1987                                    2,917,000
Decembtr 15, 1987                                2,916,000
June 15, 1988                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1988                                2,916,000
June 15, 1989                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1989                                2,917,000
June 15, 1990                                    2,917,000
December 15, 1990                                2,918,000
June 15, 1991                                    2,918,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-25-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of !e Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Frepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1-1/2%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                       7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                         8-1 /2%


