Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6213
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
May 21, 1986
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Ka OFFICAL Use ONLY
TM WORLD BANK
Wnshiston, D.C 20433
U.S.A
0lke NW OVtt"i*W
Olg  t~ br XtGeha
Opwst.tww lvelutmn
May 21, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Turkey Ports Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 1741-TU)
4ttached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey Ports Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1741-TU)"
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Under
the modified system for project performance auditing, further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipient, cltn ir. tht pe.=zmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dis:xce  it;thou: V orl L:nl . :ho:iutior.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
TURKEY
Loan 1741-TU: PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Pref ace* ....................................................... 
Basic Data Sheet ................ ,ii
Highlights .............. ,                        a00#000                 v
I.  Introduction ................................... 1
II.   Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal.......         2
III.   Operational and Institutional Aspects...................         6
IV.   Economic Evaluation,.......... .....      .................    , 14
V.   Financial Evaluation....................... ............        16
VI.                                 Cnlsos.............................. 19
ANNEXES
1.   Summary of Costs........................................        21
2(a).   Category Allocations of Funds from Loan Agreement
(Forecast and Actual) ................................       22
2(b).   Schedule of Disbursements ...... ..... .. . *. . . . ............  23
2(c).   Comparison of Appraisal Estimate and Actual Loan
3(a).   Revised List of Cargo-Handling Equipment................        25
3(b).   Investory of New Floating C:aft .........................       26
4.   Implementatiou Schedule....................    *         . ....  27
5.   Compliance with Loan Conditions .........................       28
6.   Variation of Turkish IRA in Relation to the US Dollar...        30
7.   Total TCDD & DB Ports Traffic.........................., 31
8.   Inventory of Port Handling Equipment by 1Jvpe and Age....       32
9(a).   TCDD Railways Organization Chart - Including Ports
Operations ....... t ~~~~~~33
9(b).   TDI Maritime Organization Chart - Including Port
Operationso....................................... ......     34
10(a).    raining Courses for Port Workers.......................        35
10(b).   Training Fellowships (MOC, TCCD & DB).. ..***..........*    36
Thb document h a rstictod disWtibution and may be used by recpients only in the perfonnme
of thir oical dutis Its contents may not othwio be diclosetd without World lank authorason.



Table of Contents (cont'd.)
Page No.
11.   Table 1:  Comparison of Actual and Forecast Itaffic
38
Table 2: Cargo Handling Performance 1983-General
39
Table 3:  Cargo Handling Performance 1983-Dry Bulk ......       40
Table 4:  Costs and Benefits .       .............              41
12.   Table 1:  TCDD Ports Operations - Income Statement......        42
Table 2:  DB Ports Operations - Income Statement ........       43
Table 3:  TCDD Ports Operations - Balance Sheet
44
Table 4:  DB Ports Operations - Balance Sheet Summary ...       45
13.   Borrower Cbmments................***, ,* ..........             46
MAP       IBRD 13702



-i-
TURKEY
Loan 1741-TU: PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
The following is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Turkey
Ports Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1741-TU), prepared by the Transportation
Division, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Projects Department. The loan
of US$75.0 million was approved on June 26, 1979, and became effective on
January 31, 1980.
Some delays were encountered during the start-up period of the
project due to the longer periods required by the agencies to complete the
required bid documents thrcugh to award of contract, and to some civil works
taking longer to implement. The project content did not change substantially
during implementation and the project was completed with only US$57.8 million
of the loan utilized due to the increased strength of the US dollar, and the
devaluation of the Turkish lira. The balance of US$17.2 million was
cancelled. The closing date of the loan was extended from June 30, 1983 to
June 30, 1984.
This PCR is based on the findings of Bank missions which visited
Turkey in the later part of 1984, and on subsequent data and comments provided
by the Turkish State Railways (TCDD) and the Turkish Maritime Organization
(TDI). It is also based on project correspondence and various reports
prepared during appraisal and supervisions.
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read In the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion
Report was aent to th'j Borrower for comments. The reply is shown as
Annex 13.



-ii-
Tumy
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Pro lect Data
Original          Actual (A) or
Item                          Expectation     Current Estimate (E)
Total Project Cost (US$ Million)              155.6               80.2 (E) 1/
Overrun or Underrun (X)                                        -48.02
Loan Amount (US$ Million)                      75.0                75.0
Disbursed                                                        57.8
Cancelled                                                        17.2
Completion of Physical Components
(dates)                               12/82               06/86 (E)
Time Overrun (2)                                                 55.0S
Economic Rate of Return (S)                    37.0X               39.02
1/ Based on latest estimated local expenditures since some civil works and
commissioning of floating crane not fully completed.



-iii-
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Other Proiect Data
Actual or
Estimated
Item                    Original Plan     Revisions        Actual
First Mentioned in Files                                  -         10/04/76
Government's Application                                  -         04/04/77
Negotiations                              -               -         03/02/79
Board Approval                     06/26/79               -         06/26/79
Loan Agreement                     07/02/79               -         07/02/79
Effectiveness Date                 11/05/79        01/31/80         01/31/80
Closing Date                       06/30/83        06/30/84         06/30/84
Borrower:                    Republic of Turkey
Executing Agency:            Turkish State Railways (TCDD)
Maritime Bank (DB) - later renamed as
Turkish Maritime Organization (TDI)
Fiscal Year of Borrower:    January 1 - December 31
Follow-up Project:           Third Ports Project - Loan 2535-TU
Exchange Rates: Turkish Lira to US$1.00 (as of December)
Year                 Rate
1979                47.45
1980                88.83
1981               131.65
1982               188.26
1983               252.50
1984               427.90
(See Annex 6 for graphical representation of weekly variation in exchange
rate.)



-iv-
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COhPLETION REPORT
Mission Dates
No. of    No. of                   Report
Item              Month/Year    Weeks      Persons    Man-weeks       Dace
Identification/
Preappraisal           10/77          3          3            9        11/18/77
Appraisal                05/78           3         4            12       04/12/79
Supervision I            10/79           1.5       2             3       11/20/79
Supervision II           05/80          1.5        2             3       06/13/80
Supervision III          12/80           1.7       3             5       01/30/80
Supervision IV           06/81           1.5       2             3       07/27/81
Supervision V            04/82          2          2             4       05/21/82
Supervision VI           07/82           2         2             4       08/06/82
Supervision VII          10/82           1.5       2             3       11/04/82
Supervision VIII         03/83          2          3             6       04/14/83
Supervision IX           07/83           2         3             6       07/15/83
Supervision X            10/83           1.5       1             1.5     10/31/83
Supervision XI
(Incl. Completion)    07/84           0.5        3            1.5      07/12/84
Supervision XI and
Completion             03/85          0.5        1             0.5     03/28/85



TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Highlights
1.       The project was slow in the initial implementation with a delay of
18-23 months, but then followed fairly closely the estimated profile (para.
3.01 and Annex 2(c)). The original closing date of June 30, 1983 was extended
to June 30, 1984.
2.       The project content remained essentially as proposed in the SAR,
except for a number of agreed revisions due to changing needs and
circumstances (paras. 3.03 through 3.06, and Annexes 3(a) and 3(b)).
3.       The total equivalent cost of the project is estimated at US$80.2
million (as compared with SAR estimate of US$155.6 million) due to the
increased strength of the US dollar in relation to other major international
currencies and the rapid devaluation of the Turkish Lira (para. 3.16 and
Annexes 1, 2(a), 2(c) and 6).
4.       Traffic has exceeded appraisal Forecasts since 1981 and was about 25%
above the 1984 forecast. Since port tariffs are expressed in US dollars,
revenue has not been seriously affected by devaluation and both agencies, TCDD
and TDI, have shown substantial profits (paras. 3.17, 4.02 and 5.04).
5.       The timing and objectives of the project were appropriate, and have
led consecutively to increased productivity and to the preparation of the
Third Ports Project, which concentrates on the introduction of modern
container equipment and technology to specific ports serving the main
hinterland areas (paras. 3.17 and 4.04).
6.       The economic rate of return for the project is now assessed as 39Z as
compared with the appraisal estimate of 37b (para. 4.08).
7.       Following extensive discussions between the Government, the agencies
and the Bank, the establishment of the proposed National Ports Institution
(NPI) was not proceeded with, and significant institutional progress towards
autonomy of the port establishments of TCDD and TDI has been made (para. 3.19).



TURKEY
Loan 1741-TU: PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
The Transport Sector
1.01     Transport plays a vital role in the economy of Turkey by providing
essential support for economic activity, foreign trade and transit traffic.
The Turkish transport network is also a vital bridge between Europe and the
Middle East. The country has an extensive and fairly well-developed transport
system: about 60,000 km of state and provincial roads, 270,000 km of rural
roads and 220,000 km of forestry roads; 8,200 km of railways; 12 major public
ports handling a significant volume of cargo including coastal traffic; a
system of civil and military pipelines; and Turkish Airlines, which serves
several domestic and international routes (IBRD Map 13702).
1.02     Responsibility for transport sector planning, policy development, and
investment is divided among a large number of key ministries and agencies.
The main agencies involved are: (a) the Ministry of Transport, which signifi-
cantly contributes to transport policy and also oversees the main agencies in
the transport sector - the Turkish Maritime Organization (TDI),* Turkish Cargo
Lines (TCL), Turkish State Railways (TCDD), Turkish Airlines (THY); (b) the
Ministry of Public Works primarily responsible for planning and execution of
all transport infrastructure of highways, new railway lines and ports; (c)
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs is responsible for rural roads; and
(d) the State Planning Organization (SPO) coordinates and ensures appropriate
modal, sectoral, and national priorities.
1.03     Despite the importance of transport in the economy, investment in the
sector during the 1970s did not keep pace with the development and require-
ments of the economy, primarily due to inadequate attention to rehabilitation
and modernization of transport facilities and equipment. Deficiencies in
* During the duration of the project, the Maritime Bank (known as DB) changed
its name to TUDEK, and then to the TurkisFh Maritime Organization (TDI).
Similarly, the Harbours Directorate of the Ministry of Public lorks (known
as LI) became known as the General Directorate of Railways, Ports and Air-
ports Construction (DLH). For ease of reference in relation to Loan Docu-
ments, the SAR, and project files, the acronyms DB & LI will continue to be
used in the PCR where applicable in the time frame of the context of the
report.



railway operations and maintenance, shifted additional bulk traffic to the
roads. The new export oriented economic strategy introduced in 1980,
including increased emphasis on Middle East markets, combined with sharp
increases in transit traffic due to the Iran-Iraq war, placed significant
additional burdens on the transport system. As a result, roads are below
standard for existing traffic levels, major railway routes require
rehabilitation and the railway4 lack adequate motive power and other facili-
ties. These problems affecting roads - and railways are now being addressed
by two on-going highway projects and in the preparation of a proposed railway
project. While at appraisal of the second ports project the rapidity of
growth of port traffic could not have been foreseen, even the then expected
growth of Turkey's foreign trade required the introduction of modern port
handling equipment to accommodate the growing volumes of traffic. The project
therefore, included replacement and modernization of cargo-handling equipment,
storage facilities and floating craft to improve the efficiency of operations
at ten major ports, and to assist the port agencies in planning future
investment programs and improving port management techniques. These
investments became more cruical given the change to an export oriented
economic strategy and the opportunities to profit from major increases in
transit traffic.
The Ports Subsector
1.04     The major ports function under two separate institutions, one group,
i.e. the Ports of Samsun, Haydarpasa, Derince, Bandirma, Mersin and Iskenderun
are under the ports establishment of the TCDD Railway Corporation and another
group, i.e. the Ports of Trabzon, Giresun, Hopa, Salipazari (Istanbul), Ismir,
Antalya and the recently added Rize under the ports estab- lishment of the
Turkish Maritime Organization (TDI) (previously the Maritime Bank (DB)).
Construction and maintenance of the ports infrastructure are the
responsibility of the Directorate of Ports (DLH) in the Ministry of Public
Works. Under Decree No. KHK 233 of June 8, 1984, both TCDD and TDI ports
operations have been transformed, with effect from January 1, 1985, into new
semi-autonomous en'ities to be named TCDD Limanlar Izletmesi Muessesesi or
TCDD Ports Establishment (Demirliman), and TDI Liman Isletme ve Gemi Kurtama
Muessesesi or TDI Ports and Vessel Salvage Establishment (Denizliman). Both
Demirliman and Deriizliman will have separate identities, but they will be
under the corporate control of their parent institutions, TCDD and TDI, as
subsidiary units.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Ideatification
Introduction
2.01     Port operations in Turkey's main public ports were severely hampered
by: (i) old, obsolete, and inadequate cargo-handling equipment and floating
craft; (ii) shortages of open and covered storage areas, and deficiencies in



other quay facilities; and (iii) relatively untrained port labor and outdated
port management techniques. These constraints contributed to low producti-
vity, inefficient handling, high incidence of cargo damage and longer ship-
time in ports. The operational availability of existing cargo-handling equip-
ment in Turkish ports was low (less than 50X), due to frequent breakdowns
caused by age (more than half of the equipment being 20 years or older) and to
some extent by a lack of spare parts, partly the result of inadequate alloca-
tion of foreign exchange by Government. Further, since 5Ob of the existing
port cranes had nominal capacities of only 1-3 tons, they were often unable to
cope with the heavier parcels, thus requiring shifting of vessels to berths
with heavier equipment, which caused further delays. Lack of modern equipment
and trained staff also prevented the proper use of palletization and con-
tainerization of general cargo to improve port efficiency and productivity.
2.02     The ports also lacked suitable floating craft, including tugboats and
floating cranes. The existing fleet of tugboats was insufficient in numbers
and inadequate, because of age and low towing power, to cope with the increas-
ing numbers and sizes of vessels visiting the Turkish ports and/or using the
Bosphorus and Dardanelles Straits (whose pilotage was handled by the then DB).
The operational capacity of the existing floating craft was further limited by
the absence of sufficient slipway facilities for their regular maintenance and
repairs, some craft having to travel about 500 miles to the nearest slipways
in Izmir or Istanbul. Turkey had only four floating cranes of up to 60 tons
capacity, all of them over 25 years old. A new 100-ton floating crane had
been ordered from the DB shipyard in Ihtanbul for general use in the Istanbul
area, but a heavier floating crane was needed to handle the increasing number
of heavy lifts.
2.03     In addition, many ports, especially the two ports of Istanbul, lacked
sufficient cargo storage facilities, and were also in need of substantial
rehabilitation of the paving and other infrastructure facilities. Only
limited facilities were available in Turkey for training port labor and opera-
tional staff, with small training units in the portd of Izmir and Istanbul,
and a training section in the headquarters of DB; TCDD had a training insti-
tute in Istanbul for training railway staff only. The absence of suitable
training facilities and programs inhibited the removal of the deficiencies in
the cargo-handling and storage management at the ports. Abandoned or damaged
cargoes occupied prime storage areas; aisles intended for equipment and
vehicle passage and large portions of the wharves' aprons were often used for
storage of cargo. The ports were therefore compelled to handle an increasing
proportion of general cargo on a direct delivery basis, but trucks were unable
to move freely through the port due to congestion resulting in a decline in
gang productivity, low cargo throughput, delays to ships and cargo, and exces--
sive ship-waiting times, resulting in demurrage and congestion surcharges.
B. Preparation and Appraisal
2.04     The main objectives of the project were to:  (i) improve substantially
the efficiency of port operations in Turkey's main public ports, particularly
in handling general cargo exports and imports, by replacing and modernizing



- 4 -
old and obsolete cargo-handling equipment and floating craft, and improving
storage and cargo-handling areas; (ii) avoid a recurrence of severe congestion
in Turkey's main ports experienced in 1975-76, which had only temporarily
eased as a result of Turkey's economic difficulties; (iii) promote modern
cargo-handling methods and port management techniques, mainly through provi-
sion of modern equipment and technical assistance for training; and (iv)
assist in carrying out port sector planning for future investments.
2.05     The project was appraised in May 1978 and addressed the highest
priority of the Turkish ports sector, viz. rehabilitation of existing equip-
ment and replacemjnt of obsolete equipment in the main public ports, which
were also the country's main general cargo ports dealing with international
trade, to ensure sufficient port capacity to meet Turkey's traffic require-
ments up to about 1985. A port sector planning study under the project would
further review traffic and development trends and assist in determining likely
future projects, and their relative priorities.
C. Project Description
2.06          The project consisted of the following items:
Equipment
(a) Cargo-Handling Equipment: about 37 shore cranes, 93 mobile
cranes, 110 forklift trucks, 21 tractors, 42 trailers, 2
tractors with dozer, and four generators--for the ten project
ports.
(b) Floating Craft: One 200-ton lifting capacity floating crane for
general use in ports; six tugboats for TCDD and about 15 service
boats for the six TCDD project ports as well as three tugboats
of about 350 HP for use by LI.
(c) Spare Parts: for: (i) three years' operation of new equipment;
(ii) rehabilitation of some of the existing equipment; and (iii)
some minor workshop equipment for equipment maintenance.
(d) Hydrographic and other miscellaneous Equipment for LI.
Civil Works
(e) Paving and surfacing of about 670,000 m2 of open storage areas
(Mersin, Trabzon, Izmir, Derince, Samsun, Iskenderun, Salipazari
and Haydarpasa), construction of about 19,000 m2 storage sheds,
minor dredging works totalling about 550,000 m3 in 5 ports, and
general repair and rehabilitation works.
(f) Construction of one slipway of 300 tons lifting capacity in
Iskenderun and another slipway of 100 tons in Antalya, including
all mechanical equipment for repair and maintenance of harbor
craft.



-5-
Technical Assistance
(g) Training
(i)    Provision of experts and equipment for training port labor and
staff of TCDD and DB ports. at the TCDD Training Institute in
Haydarpasa, Merchant Marine Academy in Istanbul and other port
training centers.
(ii)    Provision of training abroad for personnel from the ten project
ports and their head offices (in TCDD and DB) in modern cargo-
handling methods, mechanical maintenance management, port opera-
tions, and general port management; and
(iii)    Provision of fellowships for overseas training in advanced
harbor design and engineering for port engineers from LI.
(h)    Management Studies.  Consultancy Services for:  (i) revaluation
of ports' assets, (ii) a cost accounting study to help establish
a cost-related tariff, and (iii) assistance in preparations for
a proposed New Ports Institution.
(i)    Ports Sub-sector Master Planning.  Provision of consultancy
assistance for port sector master planning and engineering,
comprising three phases:
Phase I: Study of national port capacity requirements
during the next five, ten and twenty year time spans, in
port capacity in different regions;
Phase II: Preparation of a national ports master plan to
meet projected needs in different regions, including a
special study for developing a Marmara regional port to
replace existing congested port facilities;
Phase III: Preliminary engineering and design of the
Marmara (or the necessary) regional port project.
2.07     Separate from the technical assistance included under the project,
the UNDP financed the services of a procurement expert to assist the project
agencies in drawing up specifications and tender documents for procurement of
equipment.
D. Cost Estimates
2.08     The total cost of the project was estimated at appraisal as US$155.6
million, the foreign exchange component being US$75.0 million (about 48 per-
cent) with the balance financed from the agencies' own budgets. A summary of
the cost estimates is given in Part A of Annex 1, and the Loan Agreement
Category allocations are shown in Annex 2(a). In addition to the above



- 6 -
project costs, UNDP agreed to contribute US$0.93 million in foreign exchange
for financing part of the training program undertaken by ILO, with Government
contributing the correspo%iding local currency costs.
III. OPERATIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Implementation of the Project
3.01     After a delay in loan effectiveness (six months after signature of
loan documents), implementation of the project was affected by two basic pro-
blems. The MOT's Transport Coordination Agency (TCA), which had been intended
to act as project coordinator, proved less effective than expected, since the
agency was unable to retain its existing expert staff and to recruit adequate
number of suitable replacements, due to the relatively low level of salaries
offered. On account of the cotntry's economic problems, the Government placed
an embargo on further recruitment and, furthermore, TCA was not delegated suf-
ficient authority to meet its full obligations. The second problem was that
the target dates set for preparation of the relevant documentation by the
agencies staff, who were unused to Bank procedures and documents, had to be
prepared first in Turkish and then translated into English.  Preparation mis-
sions had proposed to the agencies that some technical assistance in prepara-
tion of bid documents would be prudent, but agencies were confident that they
could carry this out satisfactorily themselves. In three specific cases where
problems arose, the Bank called in specialist assistance to assist the
agencies. In addition, some bid evaluations took much longer than forecast
(in two cases, contracts were finally awarded about one year after receipt of
bids - mobile cranes and floating crane). The delaying effect is demonstrated
in the disbursement schedule (see Annex 2(b)) and in the graphical presenta-
tion of the ad4usted disbursement rate as compared with the appraisal estimate
(see Annex 2(c)), which shows disbursements followed a similar profile, but
between 19 and 24 months later than forecast. As a result, delivery of some
new equipment was delayed with a temporary loss of the increased benefit to
cargo handling operations in some of the project ports. However, this loss
was offset by higher traffic levels in other ports, particularly in transit
traffic (para. 4.02).
3.02     During the first two years of the project, the Borrower proposed, and
the Bank agreed to, a number of changes in the project components, due to
changing needs and circumstances.
3.03     For TCDD, the modifications were:
(a)    deletion of four five-ton quay cranes and their replacement by
three 35-ton quay cranes to increase the handling capacity for
the heavier goods through certain ports and for containers;
(b)    addition of one 35-ton quay crane of the same type as in (a)
above to replace an existing 25-ton crane damaged in Mersin
which had been intended to work with the above 35-ton cranes;



- 7 -
(c)    replacement of eight crawler cranes by eight front-end loaders
to provide greater flexibility for handling bulk commodities;
(d)    procurement of 20 of the 42 trailers in the project locally from
TCDD's own resources;
(e)    addition of three 12-ton forklifts for handling empty containers
and similar items;
(f)    upgrading three 1250 HP tugboats to 1500 HP for standardization,
and the deletion of three 1000 HP tugboats;
(g)    increasing the capacity of the Iskenderun slipway from 300 to
500 tons to ensure its capability to service all TCDD floating
craft; and
(h)    the upgrading of the floating crane from 200 to 250 tons to
provide for handling likely import items of heavy machinery
based on a market survey in Turkey.
3.04     For DB, the modifications were:
(a)    the upgrading of the Antalya slipway from 100 tons to 1,000 tons
to cater for TDI's own vessels and for third parties;
(b)    the reduction of covered storage at Antalya from 12,000 m2 to
4,000 m2 and the increase of that for Sefakoy (Istanbul) by
8,000 mi2; and
(c)    the subsequent transfer of the intended development at Sefakoy
to a larger site at Icerenkoy (Asian side of the Bosphorus and
south-east of Haydarpasa) due to land acquisition problems at
Sefakoy.
3.05     For LI (now DLH) the modification was:  (a) deletion of the
hydrographic equipment and its replacement by floating equipment spare parts
which were to have been financed from LI's own budget, but for which the
necessary foreign exchange was not available.
3.06     The revised lists of equipment for TCDD and TDI (ex-DB) are shown in
Annex 3(a), and the revised list of floating equipment and the changes are
shown in Annex 3(b). The above revisions (paras. 3.03 through 3.05) were
implemented, and did not require supplementary funding, but merely some real-
location of funds within the respective loan categories.
Implementation Schedule
3.07     As mentioned in para. 3.01, delays of between 19 and 24 months
occurred in the award of major contracts, due partly to an over-optimistic
original implementation schedule and partly due to delays in document



preparation and in bid evaluation. Annex 4 shows, in bar chart form, the
actual implementation periods relative to the original program. In financial
terms, US$42.3 million, or 732 of total disbursements of US$57.8 million under
the loan, was disbursed by the original closing date of June 30, 1983, the
balance comprising mainly final payments to equipment manufacturers under
awarded contracts.
Compliance with Covenants
3.08     Generally, the Borrower complied with the covenants as set out in the
Loan and Project Agreements. The list of covenants and the compliance status
is set out in Annex 5. Some of the institutional arrangements, did not turn
out precisely as laid down in the covenants (see paras. 3.19 and 3.20) but the
alternatives are considered to be generally adequate.
Procurement
3.09     At the start of the project, TCDD and DB entered into written
agreements that TCDD would procure all equipment for both agencies, while DB
would procure all floating craft. DB would be procuring agent for LI, since
their loan allocation was small and they were not therefore named in the Loan
Agreement as an executing agency; this agreement worked satisfactorily.
3.10     Likewise, LI were responsible for administration and supervision of
most civil works (quay reconstruction, paving, dredging) for both TCDD and DB,
except for certain specific works such as Mersin paving (TCDD), and Icerenkoy
development (DB). Delays occurred due to staff limitations in LI, local con-
tractor deficiencies, foundation problems due to poor ground conditions and
budget limitations of LI, where some works such as dredging had to close down
until the next fiscal year. This latter problem affected much of LIs total
construction program, mainly in non-project works.
3.11     The main procurement problems arose in the procurement of the mobile
cranes and the floating crane. Bid evaluation chrough to award of contract
for the mobile cranes took 12 months, while TCDD and DB disagreed upon the
acceptability of the lowest evaluated bid due to doubts on certain technical
characteristics in relation to the specification of the floating crane. A
supervision mission advised the Ministry of Transport and the agencies to in-
vite the proposed floating crane manufacturer to Turkey to discuss and resolve
these doubts - this was done and the necessary clarifications and written per-
formance guarantees were provided by the manufacturer. Due to the long delay
in preparing the documents (in which the UNDP-financed procurement specialist
assisted), time lost in the bid evaluation process and in assembling the crane
on its pontoon (constructed by DB in one of their shipyards), the floating
crane is not yet operational, but is to be completed by end June 1985.
3.12     Consultants for the National Ports Master Plan (NPMP) study were
chosen from five who submitted proposals. In retrospect, too few man-months
were finally negotiated by the Borrower with the chosen consultants, and this
did affect the depth of coverage of the final report. In addition, super-
vision of the study by the MOT was not sufficiently close to ensure the neces-
sary in-depth coverage for all ports. The report ascertained that the exist-
ing general port capacity, including facilities under construction, would be



- 9 -
adequate during the ensuing five years, and that construction of a new Marmara
port was not justified. (Phase III of the study - detailed engineering - was
not, therefore, implemented.) However, the study proposed an over-extended,
and too broad-ranged developmenat of container facilities in seven ports within
the proposed time frame. (The Government has subsequently agreed under the
new project (Loan 2535-TU) to a first phase development of container handling
facilities in four ports, given the uncertainties over the development of
traffic, especially transit traffic.)
3.13     The Bank was asked to assist the Borrower by providing a list of port
specialists and to act as executing agency for the tariff study financed by
UNDP. The specialist selected proved to be an "individualist", who did not
sufficiently involve h's counterparts, and his contribution towards the task
of establishing a cost-related tariff structure was not as constructively
effeczive as had been envisaged. It was established through the information
derived from the cost analysis system set up earlier under the project (by a
costing specialist financed by UNDP), that the existing tariff rates, which
were expressed in U.S. dollars, amply covered costs. The Turkish authorities
did not therefore consider that any significant changes to the existing
tariffs were justified at this stage - with which the Bank acquiesced. How-
ever, some rationalisation of tariffs including those relating to container
handling may be required, and the new Third Ports Project provides for the
review and introduction as necessary of special container tariffs before
January 1987. Overall, the two consulting assignments (tariff and costing)
proved to be less effective than envisaged, mainly due to the inability of
both speci lists to establieh a good rapport and work effectively with Turkish
agencies where relatively little English or other international languages are
spoken, with consequent reduced effectiveness in the training of counterpart
staff and personnel. The new ports project also provides for technical
assistance for establishing and improving financial, accounting and management
information systems, methods and procedures in the ports organizations through
the use of local consultants.
3.14     In general, the choice of consultants by the Borrower is still based
too much on cost rather than on the quality of the proposal. In retrospect,
this affected the National Ports Master Plan Study, and the consultants over-
all performance was less than satisfactory (para. 3.12).
Reporting
3.15     TCDD and TDI completed their separate quarterly progress reports
which were coordinated by the Ministry of Transport and sent to Washington.
Reports were in line with the agreed format, but were frequently late by about
three months.
Costs
3.16     The total project cost assessed at appraisal was US$155.6 million
equivalent, with foreign and local currency components of US$75 million and
US$80.6 million, respectively. During the project period, the exchange rate
deteriorated, with an average annual devaluation of about 57% since 1979 such



- 10 -
that the US dollar equivalent of local costs is actually less than one-thrid
of the total project cost (as compared with an estimate of 502 at appraisal).
The variation in the Turkish Lira in relation to the US$ is shown diagramati-
cally in Annex 6. In addition, with the increased strength of the US dollar
in relation to other currencies, only US$57.8 million (77X) of the loan of
US$75 million was utilized. The final total cost of the project is assessed
as US$80.2 million (based on latest estimates since final local currenCy costs
are not yet known due to some uncompleted project works at this time of writ-
ing). However, the amount of equipment, civil works, and technical assistance
actually provided under the project was essentially as set out in paras. 2.06
and 3.03 through 3.05, apart from the deletion of the second stage of paving
at Trabzon, which will be implemented later by TDI and financed from their own
resources. The revised cost summary table is shown in Part B of Annex 1, and
the Loan Agreement category allocations and actual expenditures are shown in
Annex 2(a), the schedule of disbursements in Annex 2(b).
Achievement of Objectives - Physical
3.17     Overall, the project's physical objectives were achieved during a
period of rapid traffic growth, as is shown diagrammatically in Annex 7.
Since 1981, traffic growth exceeded forecasts in all three main commodity
groups with the total traffic for 1984 exceeding appraisal forecasts by about
252. While part of this increase is due to increased transit traffic to Iran
and Iraq and to an improvement in the economy, there is no doubt that the
project raised productivity through the introduction of new equipment and by
improving the availability of existing equipment through revised maintenance
procedures and better supplies of spare parts, new and rehabilitated cargo
storage areas, and by training ports staff and workers. Annex 8 shows an
analysis by type and age of the various types of cargo-handling equipment.
The very low replacement rates in some equipment categories, in the 15 years
prior to the project, are readily apparent. Prior to the project, the ser-
viceability of the older equipment was relatively low due to lack of spare
parts, which, if not available ex-stock in Turkey, could take up to 12 months
or more to obtain due to the long bureaucratic ordering procedures for over-
seas goods. As stated above, the provision of spare parts for existing equip-
ment and the replacement of obsolete equipment under the project had a signi-
ficant effect upon the ports productivity, enabling the handling of the
increased traffic during the period from 1982 onwards. Other measures being
introduced include improved pre-planning of ships' arrivals, clearance of
unwanted cargoes from berths and storage areas, and better traffic control and
use of storage facilities when direct delivery is not available. The ports
are also planning to introduce multiple shift working for container operations.
The recent Third Ports Project (Loan 2535-TU for US$134.5 million), appraised
in December 1984 and approved by the Board on May 9, 1985, will further pro-
mote improvements by introducing modern container handling equipment and tech-
nology into four Turkish ports, Haydarpasa, Izmir, Mersin and Trabzon under a
first phase development, since there is the potential for containerising up to
50 of cargoes to Turkey in the next five years. As the new project progress-
es, traffic trends will also be monitored so that provision for an additional
facilities or other needs may be included in a second phase development (from
1988-90 onwards) which will be studied by the Government and the Bank during
the implementation of the new project. Based on the latest assessments of



- 11 -
transit traffic, volumes to Iran and Iraq through Turkey are unlikely to
decrease within the next five years or thereabouts, since, even when the Gulf
war ends, total traffic to Iran and Iraq will probably increase, particularly
for materials needed for reconstruction. Even though the Gulf ports will re-
open in the longer term, it can be expected that both countries will wish to
maintain alternative routes for strategic reasons. In addition, present sea
freight rates to Turkey are about US$75 per ton for Mediterranean route
traffic as compared with about US$90 per ton to Jordan and over US$100 to the
Gulf.
3.18     In retrospect, bearing in mind the growth of containerization
throughout the world and that, at appraisal, container traffic through Turkey
had reached 70,000 TEU per annum, it may be contended that more attention
might have been paid to this traffic, by providing a limited amount of
specialized container handling equipment. However, a review of the distribu-
tion of such containers among the various ports in the 1978/80 period showed
that, only at Mersin was the number of containers sufficient to consider the
possible provision of a lightweight container crane, and that new equipment
being provided under the project should be adequate in the short to medium
term for both general cargo and containers. It was in the 1981/82 period that
container traffic increased significantly mainly due to the upsurge in the
Iran and Iraq transit traffic. The question was therefore raised in mid-1982
by the Bank with TCDD, who specifically indicated that they did not consider
such specialized equipment to be justified at that time. As referred to in
para. 3.17 above, specialized container handling equipment is being provided
under the follow-up project (Loan 2335-TU).
Achievement of Obiectives - Institutional
3.19     The Loan Agreement for the project had called (under Section 3.06 (a)
and (b)) for the establishment of a new National Ports Institution (NPI) to
take over the ports activities of the major ports. However, this proposal was
not implemented as the Government as well as the Bank were no longer convinced
that establishment of one Institute is the appropriate short-term approach to
follow. Recent attempts to establish national institutions in other sectors
of the economy in Turkey have not met with success. Furthermore, it is now
clear that the immediate objective is to strengthen the basic functions of the
existing ports organizations, including planning and accountability, and to
provide for financial auto.iomy. As a result, a more gradual approach is being
pursued by establishing the ports departments as semi-autonomous organizations,
although still under the control of their parent organizations. This is a
major step towards making the ports departments more responsible for estab-
lishing accountability and financial autonomy, and for meeting the needs of
the economy. During the implementation of the latest ports project (Loan
2535-TU), a dialogue will be maintained with the agencies and the Government
upon the autonomy of the ports departments, and the desirability or otherwise
of their ultimate amalgamation. At this stage, there is no clear-cut case for
amalgamation. As discussed above (para. 1.04), TCDD ports operations will be
structured as an establishment to be called Demirliman, with a Board of
Directors, or Executive Committee of its own appointed by the TCDD Board of
Directors, an Establishment Director who will be the chief executive, three



- 12 -
Assistant Directors to be in charge of the central departments and six Port
Directors in charge of each port. As far as the TDI ports are concerned, they
will be functioning under a similar organizational pattern to that of TCDD
ports. The new organizations of TCDD and TDI are shown on Charts 26971 and
26972 (see Annexes 9,a) and 9(b)). During the project, improved coordination
between TCDD and TDI commenced with protocols signed between the agencies
regarding responsibilities for specific procurement (para. 3.09), and joint
cooperation upon training of staff and dock workers (para. 3.21). (Under the
recently approved Third Ports Project (2535-TU), procurement of container
handling equipment will be procured by TCDD for its own and for TDI ports,
which will further promote standardization of equipment and of associated
spare parts and components as set out in 1741-TU, Loan Agreement, Section 3.06
(c). In addition, a Project Coordination Committee has alho been set up under
Loan 2535-TU, with representatives from all involved agencies with a Deputy
Undersecretary of the Ministry of Transport as Chairman.)
3.20     In a similar administrative reorganization, the LI department in the
MPW (Limanlar Insaati) has recently been reformed into a "General Directorate
of Railways, Ports and Airports Construction" (DLH) It is understood at this
stage that there will now be one Director General for DLR, whereas in the past
each subsector had its own Director.
3.21     Because of the progressive loss of staff, (as referred to in
para. 3.01), TCA was disbanded and its general responsibilities for coordina-
tion were taken over by the Trade and tariffs Department (TTD) of the Ministry
of Transport, but TTD suffered from the same serious staffing problems and was
not as a result, as effective as intended. However, the demands for coordina-
tion lessened as the project progressed so that the impact of the later defi-
ciencies were less significant to the project. In addition, the State Plann-
ing Organization (SPO) assumed greater responsibility for transport planning,
and were responsible for the preparation of the National Transport Master Plan
(NTMP) which includes planning for the ports subsector.
Staff Recruitment and Training
3.22     TCDD, TDI and LI (now DLH) have found it difficult to attract new
qualified staff owing to the relatively low salaries offered as compared with
commercial firms (para. 3.01).  Without an across-the-board increase in the
salaries structure, recruitment will continue to be a problem. Staff training
has been undertaken under the project for both port workers and staff. UNDP
and ILO provided specialists (under UNDP funding) to organize and initiate
training courses. A port operations training school was set up, first in the
Merchant Marine Academy in Istanbul and subsequently in the TCDD Training
Center at Haydarpasa. The recruitment of specialists by ILO proved more dif-
ficult than expected and training in all desired disciplines (general cargo
operations, container operations, maintenance) could only be undertaken on a
better coordinated basis from mid-1981, when more specialists had been re-
cruited and an extension of funding to the end of 1982 had been agreed by the
Government with UNDP. The agencies felt, however, that they did not derive
the expected benefits from such training due to the earlier lack of continuity
of the training program. During the latter part of the port project, training



- 13 -
has been taking place at Haydarpasa and Mersin, and at other ports, (after the
ILO/UNDP contracts expired in December 1982). The TCDD and DB instructors
have continued to run courses for dock workers and technicians; a list of such
courses is included in Annex 10(a). The training school has also produced
some useful illustrated technical booklets in Turkish, including one on
container handling operations.
3.23     Nearly 100 management staff from the Ministry of Transport, TCDD, DB
and LI also made visits overseas between mid-1980 and mid-1982 in connection
with port operations (general cargo and containers), technical and operations
instructors courses, and design and construction of port structures (see
Annex 10(b)). The visits were of between one and two weeks duration to give
exposure of staff to port operations and methods of working in other countries.
3.24     As a general conclusion, significant institutional progress has been
made towards autonomy of the port establishments, particularly in the light of
the recent legislation setting up the Demirliman and Denizliman establishments,
and since the process of staff and worker training has been institutionalized.
Role of the Bank
3.2a     The project provided an important impetus to the rehabilitation of
the ports agencies' cargo handling capacity at a time when such facilities and
equipment were urgently needed, and the Country was short of the necessary
foreign exchange to enable such action to be taken. As referred to in para.
3.17 and in Annex 8, the rate of replacement of obsolete and semi-obsolete
equipment was slow and the poor availability of spare parts resulted in low
equipment availability and hence low productivity. The procurement of the new
equipment under the project (plus some new equipment financed by agencies'
from their own resources) has improved productivity.
3.26     During preparation of various bid documents by the agencies problems
arose which required additional specialist assistance, and the Bank arranged
for specialists to visit Turkey to help to resolve them (e.g. Iskenderun slip-
way design, container storage areas paving, 250-ton floating crane). In addi-
tion, Bank staff advised agencies on other design and procurement questions,
particularly relating to bid evaluation of forklift trucks, mobile cranes and
the 250-ton floating crane where complete unanimity between the agencies was
not achieved on the degree of compliance of some bids with the technical
specifications. (In some respects, Bank missions performed thte equivalent
tasks of the defunct TCA in helping to resolve inter-agency problems.)
3.27     Due to priority commitments in connection with new projects, and
staff constraints, it was not always possible to carrj' out full supervision of
the project to the desired program and frequeney. However, limited supervision
missions were always arranged as and when necessary.



- 14 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Introduction
4.01     A similar economic evaluation has been undertaken as that made at
appraisal. Since the main focus of the project has been on the rehabiliation
of general cargo and to a lesser extent dry bulk facilities, the main focus of
the analysis is on general cargo. The 12 main ports administered by TCDD and
TDI handle about 85S of general cargo traffic and about 40S of dry bulk
traffic. Other bulk commodity flows are handled mainly by private or indus-
trial ports. The port agencies are currently completing their allocation of
equipment among the ports according to current needs. As a result, the eco-
nomic re-evaluation has been undertaken on a global basis for all ports for
the main categories of traffic, rather than for each individual port.
Traffic Forecasts
4.02     The appraisal traffic forecasts were established at a time of
considerable uncertainty over future development of the economy and of foreign
trade. In particular, the appraisal was unable to foresee the start of the
Gulf War and the rapid growth in transit traffic through Turkey to Iran and
Iraq. A period of slow growth in foreign trade in 1978 and 1979 was followed
by the introduction of a stabilization program and structural adjustment
process i.n 1980 designed to introduce greater reliance on market forces to
achieve h-Agh export growth. Exports began to pack up during 1981 and 1982 and
this upsurge has continued through 1984 with industrial exports leading the
way. Total dry cargo traffic, excluding transit, has increased at just over
77 per year since 1978 compared with an appraisal forecast of 92 per year,
mainly because of the unforeseen slowdown in foreign trade, during the early
years of the project. Foreign dry bulk traffic has shown the main lag com-
pared with the appraisal forecasts, this traffic increasing at only 6.5% per
year compared with a forecast growth of about 11% per year. This reflects the
slowdown in raw material imports during the period of the stabilization pro-
gram. However, the main difference between forecast and actual traffic is the
growth of the transit trade which increased from 460,000 tons in 1978 to over
4 million tons in 1984, compared with an appraisal forecast of less than
400,000 tons. As a whole, general cargo traffic, including transit, exceeded
the appraisal forecasts by 47%, reaching 10.8 million tons compared to the
appraisal estimate of 7.3 million tons (Annex 11, Table 1). The ports have
been able to handle this major increase in traffic at reasonable cost and
efficiency with equipment provided under the project as well as through
improvements in productivity through increasing containerization of traffic,
particularly for the transit trade.
Project Benefits
4.03     The main benefits of the project were felt in imprnved productivity
in the ports through the renewal and rehabilitation of pork equipment and
handling facilities.  These improvements in productivity a e reflected in
savings in ship service time and to a certain extent ship waiting time, with



- 15 -
most of the benefits accruing to general cargo traffic. Other benefits in-
clude a net reduction in cargo damage, reduced waiting time through the use of
modern tugboats, avoided accidents, and expected freight savings from the use
of a 250-ton floating crane which obviates the need for specialized heavy-lift
vessels.
4.04     Ship service time savings have been estimated on the basis of
improvements in port productivity under the project. In the without project
scenario, it is assumed that general cargo handling throughputs would have
declined from their actual level of about 380 tons per ship day in 1977 by
about 251 to 285 tons per ship day in 1982. With new equipment under the
project, general cargo throughputs have increased to about 400 tons in 1982,
between 450 and 500 tons in 1983, and are expected to reach a level of about
700 tons by 1988 (see Annex 11, Table 2, for productivity statistics in the
main ports). The latter is much higher than the previously expected increase
in productivity, but this throughput now appears likely according to recent
trends and improvements in operating methods. For dry bulk traffic, through-
puts without the project are assumed to remain at about 700 tons per ship day
compared with actual rates of about 1,200 tons (Annex 11, Table 3).
4.05     Ship waiting time savings for general cargo traffic have not changed
significantly from the appraisal estimates, the higher traffic levels being
offset by higher throughputs. Average ship costs are still of the same order
as at appraisal, namely about US$4,500 per ship day. Net reductions in cargo
losses are estimated at 0.252 per ton of conventional general cargo, based on
a cargo value of US$800 per ton. Ship waiting time savings resulting from the
use of modern tugboats and freight savings from the floating crane represent a
small proportion of total benefits and have not been taken into account.
4.06     In line with the appraisal estimates, it is assumed that 70% of
general cargo ship service time savings will accrue to Turkey on the grounds
that 402 of the traffic is handled by Turkish vessels or on charter terms
while about half of the remaining benefits will accrue to Turkey through
slower increases in freight rates. Although benefits to transit traffic will
accrue mainly to Iran and Iraq, 70% of the ship service time savings have also
been included as a surrogate for benefits accruing to Turkey in other forms
such as foreign exchange earnings on transit traffic and increased foreign
trade with its neighbors. Dry bulk traffic is handled either by Turkish
vessels or on charter terms where rates generally reflect improvements in
productivity, passing on an estimated 90% of benefits to Turkey. For ship
waiting time savings, 90% of the benefits are assumed to accrue to Turkey
through avoided congestion surcharges or reduced demurrage charges for charter
traffic. In order to allow for a time lag in passing on benefits to Turkey,
all project benefits accruing in 1983 have been ignored and only half of the
benefits in 1984 have been included (Annex 11, Table 4). Benefits beyond 1984
are based on 1984 traffic levels, which correspond to full utilization of port
equipment. Benefits are therefore held constant from 1985 onwards. As most
port equipment has a useful life of 8 to 10 years, benefits have been ignored
oeyond 1991. In addition, estimates of ship time have been based on the 1983
productivity levels; these are conservative estimates and exclude the impact
of containerization on throughputs with conventional handling equipment.



- 16 -
Project Costs
4.07     Project costs used in the economic re-evaluation relate to the total
port rehabilitation program during the 1980-1984 Development Plan, including
all components financed under the project. The reason for using the total
rehabilitation program as a basis for the re-evaluation is that it is not
possible to isolate the effects of the Bank-financed items on port producti-
vity from those of other items included in the port rehabilitation program as
a whole, in particular a number of complementary investments. The total cosc
of the port rehabilitation program is estimated at about US$200 million over
the five-year period 1980-84, or about US$160 million net of taxes and duties.
At appraisal, allowance had been made for additional operating and maintenance
costs due to the project. However, it is felt that most of these costs would
have been incurred in any event without the project, in particular through
increased operating and maintenance expenditures on worn-out equipment. Only
half of the estimated incremental operating and maintenance costs of the
equipment has therefore been included in the project cost stream (Annex 11,
Table 4).
Results
4.08     The ER for the total project based on actual costs and benefits is
estimated at 392, which is comparable with the appraisal estimate of 37%.
This result reflects the higher general cargo traffic levels and higher pro-
ductivity levels for dry bulk traffic. Even when benefits to transit traffic
are excluded from the analysis, the ER would be about 35%. These results
emphasize the high returns on the port rehabilitation and equipment renewal
program which was the primary focus of investmeot in ports during the 1980-84
Development Plan.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
5.01     The project was carried out by 3 entities - the Ministry of Public
Works, the TCDD Ports Department and the DB Ports Department. Of these, only
the latter two directly earn the revenues generated by the project and the
financial evaluation was therefore limited to these ertities.
B. Compliance with Financial Covenants
5.02     The Loan and Project Agreements (L.A. and P.A.) provided three
important financial covenants:
(i)    maintenance of separate accounts and preparation of separate
annual financial statements by TCDD and DB for their ports
operations (P.A. 4.02(b));
(ii)    revaluation of fixed assets of the ports by end of 1981 and
thereafter every three years by TCDD and DB (L.A. 3.08); and



- 17 -
(iii)    introduction by TCDD and DB for their ports, after carrying out
the port operations costing study under the project, of a cost--
related tariff structure by January 1, 1982 designed to yield
revenues sufficient to meet annually, working and administrative
expenses of the ports, debt service requirements related to the
ports, and at least 35% of the average annual cost of invest-
ments during the following five years related to their ports
(L.A. 3.09).
A brief summary of compliance with loan conditions is given in Annex 5.
5.03     The actual performance of TCDD and DB in meeting the above three
requirements are as follows:
(i)    both TCDD and DE have maintained separate accounts, which are
also required by law since January 1, 1985, and prepared and
submitted (although sometimes delayed) annual audited financial
statements covering their ports operations;
(ii)    revaluation of fixed assets of the ports was carried out in 1982
and incorporated in the accounting books in 1983 by both TCDD
and DB; and
(iii)    a costing study was carried out in 1980/81 and a tariff study in
1983. The tariff study did not recommend major structural
changes. The present position is that tariffs are uniform for
all ports, reasonably related to costs, and have, since 1981,
been expressed in equivalent US dollars. In addition, the ports
receive the 5% ad valorem dues on imports. However, the Govern-
ment has not yet transferred the subsidiary loan amounts to TCDD
and DB pending completion of the project, which in its opinion,
is the appropriate time to determine the amounts of the indi-
vidual subsidiary loans applicable to TCDD and DB. This is
contrary to provisions of the subsidiary loan agreements between
the Government and the agencies, but, in as much as the project
is substantially completed, it was agreed during negotiations of
the recently approved new ports project that they would be
transferred shortly. The generation of funds to meet the annual
investment contributions has been adequate to meet the stated
35% investment contribution requirement. However, the basic
problem lies in the fact that the ports operations have been
treated by the parent organizations as a vehicle for providing
surpluses to meet losses sustained by their other operations
such as the railways and passenger shipping lines. The sur-
pluses of the ports operations have thus been drained away by
their parent organizations. The new ports project provides for
the retention of funds by the respective ports agencies for
meeting their operating, maintenance and overhead costs, debt
service obligations and an annual contribution of 35% of their
future investment needs. Beyond this, whatever funds the parent



- 18 -
organizations are allowed to appropriate by the Treasury would
be clearly identifiable on the separate accounting records and
financial statements of the two ports organizations.
C. Financial Situation of TCDD and DB
5.04     Ports operations have been profitable since 1981 and are expected to
continue to be so. As the income statement and balance sheet tables (Annex 12,
Tables 1,2,3, and 4) show, the actual financial performance exceeded by far
the appraisal estimates. For example, in real terms both for TCDD and DB
operations the actual operating revenues were about four times the amount
forecast in 1982 and 1985, while the working expenses remained more or less
the same in these years. The reasons are as follows:
(i)    general cargo traffic increased by some 502 between 1981 and
1984;
(ii)    since 1981, tariffs have been expressed in US dollars, which in
the context of escalating exchange rates has meant higher
revenues in domestic currency for the ports agencies; and
(iii)    in the case of DD the revenues from the increased pilotage
activity on the Bosphoros have been a substantial additional
income which the appraisal forecasts do not appear to have taken
into account.
D. Accounting Activities
5.05     All organizations in the public sector are required to adhere to the
national uniform accounting system. The accounting concepts, classifications,
and definitions follow generally accepted principles of accounting and the
system is, on the whole, adequate for basic financial accounting. It does not
adequately cover, however, the analytical aspects of accounting which are
necessary for the determination of costs and for use as management tools.
Attempts under the project to introduce cost accounting in the TCDD and DB
ports operations were not completely successful, but they did result in the
introduction of procedures for activity-based costing, e.g. determining the
time units of each major activity at each port such as loading, unloading and
shifting of cargo, pilotage, berthing, etc. Based on these time units, cost
and tariff revenue calculations are now made at each port for determining the
financial contributions made by each major activity.
5.06     Both TCDD and DB's centralized accountii,g units produce quarterly
income statements and annual income statements for each port, and for the
TCDD's and DB's ports operations as a whole, as well as notional annual
balance sheets for the ports operations extracted from the general accounts.
In addition, they have been preparing approximate monthly operating results
based on time allocations of the various activities at each port. In con-
tinuation of the efforts under the project and in the context of setting up
the new ports establishments, the recently approved ports project has included
consultancy assistance for a diagnostic review to be followed by the introduc-
tion of approved proposals for the improvement of the financial, accounting,



- 19 -
costing, and management information systems, methods and procedures to serve
the needs of management decision-making, budgetary control, accountability and
tariff-setting.
E. Audits
5.07     Annual audits have been conducted by the Financial Inspectors
attached to the Ministry of Finance. Under the project, both TCDD and DB were
required to submit annual audited financial statements for their respective
port operations within six months after the end of each fiscal year. Submis-
sions of these annual reports have been often delayed, reportedly due to in-
sufficient numbers of MOF inspectors. This is expected to be corrected under
the new project as the Government has increased the number of auditors avail-
able for conducting the annual audits of Bank-financed projects.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01     The timing and objectives of the project were appropriate.  It might
have been more advantageous to the country had the project been undertaken
earlier to cater for the rapid increases in traffic during the latter part of
the project, but which could not have been foreseen at appraisal (paras. 1.03
and 3.17).
6.02     Although the appraisal could not foresee the rapid growth in transit
traffic, it should perhaps have paid more attention to the likely growth in
container traffic and the need to modernize selected ports for this traffic.
At the time of the appraisal, container traffic had already reached 70,000
units, and based on trends in other world ports, might have been expected to
develop fairly rapidly, although the increases in transit traffic due to the
Iran-Iraq war could not been foreseen. However, during implementation of the
project, the Turkish authorities and the Bank should perhaps have given
greater consideration to .Ancluding a limited amount of specialized container
handling equipment (para. 3.18).
6.03     In retrospect, it would have been better to have used more technical
assistance in the preparation of bid specifications and documents. This had
been impressed by the preparation missions upon the agencies, who, however,
firmly believed that such preparation was within their capabilities. Sub-
sequent experience showed that the agencies' capacity to produce bid documents
could not meet the agreed project schedule, and the Bank had to provide in
some instances additional specialist assistance to deal with specific problems.
Mainly due to such delays in procurement, the project ran between 18 and 23
months behind schedule (as indicated on the disbursement chart, Annex 2(b).
Language also created delays since bid documents were produced in Turkish and
subsequently translated into English (para. 3.01).
6.04     Traffic developed during the second half of the project at a faster
rate than forecast, largely due to transit traffic to Iran and Iraq. As a
result, the financial status of both TCDD and DB was good. The review of port
tariffs has shown them to cover costs satisfactorily, although some rationali-
zation of container tariffs may be necessary as the traffic develops (paras.
4.08 and 3.13).



- 20 -
6.05     Following discussions with the Government and the project agencies,
firm steps have now been taken setting up the TCDD and TDI port establishments
as semi-autonomous bodies with separate financial accounts. This is an essen-
tial step in the "commercial" development of the agencies and is more suitable
for meeting immediate objectives of strengthening port operations than the
earlier proposal to set up a national Ports Institution to administer all
ports (paras. 1.04 and 3.18).
6.06     Although the Ports Master Plan provided general guidelines for port
development of the next decade, it would have been more effective to have
required the preparation of a realistic investment program for the plan period
1985-89. Although the study focussed on containerization, as the main thrust
for port development, its recommendations in this respect were much too ambi-
tious in that its proposed container port development on too broad a front
(para. 3.12).
6.07     The economic rate of return for the project based on actual costs and
benefits is estimated at 39%, which is comparable with the appraisal estimate
of 37X (para. 4.08).
6.08     The financial status of both TCDD and DB (TDI) is good, with incomes
far exceeding the appraisal estimates as a result of higher than forecast
traffic and the fact that port tariffs are expressed in US dollars and benefit
from dollar appreciation in value (para. 5.04).
6.09     The Third Ports Project (Loan 2535-TU), approved by the Board on
May 8, 1985, for a loan of US$134.5 million, will continue with the next stage
of port development by introducing modern container handling equipment and
technology into four selected Turkish ports, each of which serves a main
hinterland area and by providing a traffic monitoring system to ascertain
development requirements from 1988-90 onwards (para. 3.17).
6.10     Finally, the project was completed at a total cost of about half of
that estimated at appraisal (US$80.2 million as against US$155.6 million).
This difference is due to:
(a)    the increased strength of the US dollar during the project
period such that only US$57.7 million (77%) of the loan was
utilized without any substantial changes in the project content;
and
(b)    the reduction in the US$ equivalent of local costs (from US$80.6
million to about US$22.5 million) due to the devaluation of the
Turkish Lira from TL 25 = US$1.00 at appraisal to TL 428 by the
end of 1984 (para. 3.16).
The remaining unutilized balance of US$17.3 million was therefore cancelled.



PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAM 1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sumarv of Costs
Part A - Anoraisal            Foreign               Part B - Actual              Foreign
Local 1/   Foreign                  Exchange       Local 2/   Foreign                   Exchange
Item                         Currencz    Efanle        _Total      iQnnt    Currency tmchan                 Total    Comega=t
_____--- US$ () -            --       ()         ---------- U(s (} - -)
Eauimunt
Cargo Handling                       9,850       36.300        46,150                   10.103      40.414       S0,517
Spare Parts                             550       4,330         4.880                      234       2.105        2.339
Floating Craft                      14.200       11.300        25.500                    3.985       8S.23       12.508
Spare Parts                              45         405           450                       78          706         784
Hydrographic                            110         960         1.070                       75         621          746
Subtotal                       24.755       53.295       78.050         70         14.475      52.419       66.894          78
Works
Civil Works and Dredging             11.460       4.410        15,870                    6.352        2.989       9.341
Slipways                              1.860       LM            4.700                    1484         1.651 
Subtotal                       13.320        7.250       20.570         35          7,836       4.640       12,476           37
Technical AllisllaL=
Training                                 70         430           S00                       27          155         182
Hanagement and Port
Planning Studies                   310        1.150         1.460                      124         Au           619
Subtotal                          380        1.580         1.960        80            151         650          801           81
Subtotal Project               38.455       62.12S      100LI80         SQ         22.462 I/   S7.70n       88.17          za
Physical                             2,670        1,o50         4.120                              -                  -
Price                               29.475       11.42S        4.0900
Subtotal                      !ULJ;a        1287S        55.020                         -                        -
TOTAL PROJECT                  80.600       7S.000       155.600         i        22.4h2       Stt09        80.171         22
Undisbursed Balance of Loan (Cancelled 05/21/85)                                               1.,291                       -
1/ Based on exchange rate at appraisal of TL2S = US$1.00.
I/  Actual exchbge rate varied between TL 25 at appraisal to TL 428 as of 01/01/85.
3/ Based on latest estimates since all local costs not finalized due to delayed
completion of civil works (financed from own resources by agencies).
4943p



- 22 -
ANNEX 2(a)
TURKEY
PORTS EERABILITkTION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Category Allocations of Funds from Loan Agreement
Forecast and Actual
Amount of Loan           Actual Amount
Allocated (in              Disbursed
Category                      US$ equivalent)              (US$)
(1) Civil Works:
(a) for DB ports                3,400,000                2,373,325
(b) for TCDD ports
(excl. slipw,y)             2,800,000                  804,559
(2) Equipment:
(a) for DB ports               14,800,000               10,599,668
(b) for TCDD ports             28,550,000               31,918,682
(c) for LI                      1,100,000                  670,768
(d) Components for
floating craft             12,250,000                9,228,746
(e) Slipway for TCDD 1/         2,600,000                1,462,489
(3)  Consulting Services:             1,850,000                  495,456
(4)  Fellowships:                        150,000                 155,091
(5)  Unallocated:                     7,500,000
TOTAL               75,000,000               57,708,784
Undisbursed balance cancelled -/                         17.291,21o
TOTAL      75,000,000
Notes. 1/ Re-allocated from Category l(c) to 2(e).
2/ Cancelled by telex dated May 21, 1985.
June 1985.



- 23 -
ANNEX 2(b)
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Years         Amount             at end of Quarter
and Quarters           ApDraisal/Estimate        Actual            (Adjusted)     M
-U$ (000)
FY 1980
September 30, 1979
December 31, 1979           0.5           0.5          -
March 31, 1980              0.6           1.2          -
June 30, 1980               9.0          10.2          -
FY 1981
September 30, 1980         11.1          21.3          -
December 31, 1980           9.2          30.5          0.4               (0.5)         (1.6)
March 31, 1981              8.8          39.3          0.5               (0.6)         (1.5)
June 30, 1981               8.5          47.8          1.3               (1.7)         (3.6)
FY 1982
September 30, 1981          8.9          56.7          6.1               (7.9)        (13.9)
December 31, 1981           8.7          65.4          7.6               (9.9)        (15.1)
March 31, 1982              4.8          70.2         16.6              (21.6)        (30.8)
June 30, 1982               2.5          72.7         19.2              (35.0)        (34.4)
FY 1983
September 30, 1982          1.3          74.0         30.1              (39.1)        (52.8)
December 31, 1982           0.5          74.5         33.4              (43.4)        (58.2)
March 31, 1983              0.3          74.8         38.0              (49.4)        (66.0)
June 30, 1983               0.2          75.0         42.3              (55.0)        (73.3)
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                                    44.2              (57.5)        (76.7)
December 31, 1983                                     47.0              (61.1)        (81.5)
March 31, 1984                                        49.0              (63.7)        (84.9)
June 30, 1984                                         50.6              (65.8)        (87.7)
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                                    52.8              (68.6)        (91.5)
December 31, 1984                                     56.6              (73.6)        (98.0)
karch 31, 1985                                        57.7              (75.0)       (100.0)
The schedule of disbursement of the Bank loan is given above; the
unount disbursed per quarter has been adjusted for comparison with the
Lppraisal estimated disbursement, bearing in mind the unutilized balance of
:he loan (see Annex 2(c) for comparison of appraisal estimate and actual
lisbursement profiles).



-24-
I.  77V                                       ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... ....2(
..4  I                *I                          I I~~~~~~~~~~~.     ..... .     ...
I...i~~~~~Vl.. ..j.....
-TI                             '
*  .4... .~~~~~..   ........
~                  ~          ~~~~~...  I..... .
..-I -   -....   .    ..     ....
.~~1~~'~'  1''w'             .z;~~~:~~~:s...  ....  ....  ..
\..                  4~~~~~~~.  .. .   ..
w  !4...   i~~~~~~~~~~~...  ...
2   *                    ..    .. .. .   . .       4....
.                                       *~~~~..   .... ----     -
-............. 
.-' ..~~~~~~~~~..4.....
.        ....  -                                                            NA
o    o  ~~~~~~~~  ...V ~~~~~~~......
J                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ~ ~ ~     ~     W
4 -~~~~~~~4
' .      .. .. . ..   . .
0.                     j~~~~~~~~1   . ~ ~ ~ ~     . . .. .. .. .. .
.. .. ..   ...  
I.         "     1~~~~~~~~A
Ca.   I~~~~~~~~~~~~O
.1.~~~~~'~~~~N 1IWss



TURM
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Revised L?sit oTrCatgo-hiad-lag Eguip^scat
Eguippent      Shore Cranes              Mobile Cranes         Forklift Trucks      =     Tractor       Tral.ers  tGe    l       er
Type              Regular    Grab Cr/ler   Regular         Container   Regular   SH' Tow   RoRo   Flat  RoRo
Capacity    35t  15t lOt 5t  lot  lot    25t lOt 5t  42t 28t 12t 10t 5t 3t L.5t                        20t   40t  150KVA         3
DB Ports
Salipazari              3                     1   3  16         1       4   5 10           5            10               2
Izmir              1                          2   2   5    1  2         2   4  8   3       2       2     4      4       2
Antalya                 2   2                 1   2   6                  2   2 10
Trabzon                                       1  1              1       1 3  5   2         2             4
TCDD Ports   __
Samsun                                  2          3                         2                    1                             1
naydarpasa    1         2   6                 1  8          2       1               4              2                            1
Derince                1   3            2     1   3                          8  2          2                                    1
Bandirma        2       2       2       2     2 5                            8 a
Mersin         3-           3                 1   5          2      1        8                     3                            1
Iskenderun                  4   2       3     1   6         2       1        6                    2                             3
Subtotal       4   1  10  18   4        9    11  38  27    7  4 1 3   9  46 r    9    11          10 mT                44       a
Total                                      7~ - ._--85     -                  113 ___l u1  
i/Short mast
2 Extra 35-ton crane to replace existing 25-ton crane damaged beyond repair by ship collision.
June 1985.



-26-
ANR 3 (b)
TURK!
PORTS URERILITATION P?OJECr - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
INVENTORY OF NEW FLOATING CRAFT
Cavacitv            Type of Craft              Unit        Parts
250 tons           Floating crane              1          General use
(200)
2,500 UP           Tugboat                                Nersi
1,500 UP           Tugboats                     5(2)      Maruin, Eaydarpasa,
Samsun, Derince, &
(1,250 HP)          Tugboats                    -(3)       Iskenderun.
1,000 HP           Tugboats                     3         Bandirma (2),
general use (1)
525 EP           Tugboats 4/                  4         General use (LI)
(350)
Service boats              13(15)    (Saun
comprising                           (Haydarpasa
Mioring boats               6         (Derince
General service boats       2         (Mearin
Pilot boats                 5         (Iskenderun
(Bandirma
1/ Upgraded to 1500 HP for stadardization of fleet.
2 Excluded from Bank financing at DB and TCDD request.
31 Upgraded.
4/ Excluded from Bank financing at LI request.
Rote: Figures in parentheses denote original number or rating.
May 1985.



-   _-  -    "-  -,- -   -
<1 -- ,___ ____* _.-
-                                                                                  II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~am-ap
I                                                                                       -  W, ,__-
1_ __   _                __                                                                                                    [  t-:
.1___-,. .___________     _ _                                                                                          _  .-
-                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
n I- tVI    W   1     I   a ' 00 a- --- i      Ieus                                                 urI            im 
r .4---                                                                 IID _ 
______ __ _____t_____ ____                                                        _-~~~~~~
0~~                                        _           _ U                             ,__                        I'X 1_
.                                                   ______ ______ ________   I  .    }_e
! _ __ . .___~~~________                                            __                                   _ _~                              .w  |  e
3 t n o 3 " 3 s   " o x s ii s " 3 i 3 1 d "           jX      It                                   -
n  -z    ;      I o1 -       .                                    -                       I 1~  i    3d Sf  
_                                                                                               -n;



- 28 -
Annex S
Page 1 of 2
TUIUtEY
PORTS REHABILSTATlgN PROJECT - LOM  1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REp9QT
Camiltane, with Loan Conditions
QaLja,g                 Ation Reouired                     gOegn  jts                  Present StAtus
06/30/79      Appoint Project Coordination              Loan Agreement         Complied with
Comittee; TCOO and 08 to                 Schedule 4
prepare list of old cargo                Part I (A)
06/30/79      Appoint three working groups to           Loan Agreement         Complied with
assist (1) procurement (ii) civil        Schedule 4
works design and construction            Part I (C)
(iii) technical assistanee
06/30/79      Employ procurement specialist             Loan Agreement         Complied with
3.02 (a)
08/31/82      Establish project Secretariat             LA. Sch. 4.             Complied with
in TCA                                   Part I (3)
08/31/79      Government to appoint inter-              Loan Agreement         Complied with
ministerial steering comnittee           Schedule 4.
for port sector planning                 Part SS (C)
09/30/79     Etablith within TCA a port                Loan Agrcement          Unit :ct up. but had insufficient
and         statistics unit and start                 3.10                    staff to be effective.  TCA itself
01/01/80      computation of national port                                      disbanded and functions assigned to
statistics                                                       TTD, who relinquished them to oeputy
Undersecretary MOT.
09/30/79     0  and TCOO to appoint qualified          Project Agreement       Complied with
and         staff by 09/30/79 and to start            2.08
01/01/80      collect operational statistics on
a uniform basis by 01/01/80.
01/01/82      Complete arrangements for training        Loan Agreement          Complied with
3.02
03/31/80      Furnish to Bank draft proposals for    Loan Agreement             Draft legislation prepared. but
National Ports Institution (NP!)         3.06 (A)                held in suspense since General
Election in November 1983.
10/31/80      Complete costing and fixed asset          LA. Sch. 4.             Costing studies completed.
revaluation studies                      Part SS (C)             Revaluation carried out.
12/31/80      Arrange delivery of 10 tugboat            Loan Agreement          Complied with
engines to De                            3.01 (8)
Project Agreement
2.06
01/01/81       Introduce procedures for standardiz-   Loan Agreement            In suspense pending passage of
ing new port equipment and for pool-   3.06 (C)                  NPS bill. or equivalent enabling
ing spare parts - by TCOO and 09                                 legislation; to be implemented
under new project.
01/01/81      Arrangements to coordinate operations  Loan Agreement             Complied with
of Haydarpasa and Salipazari Ports       3.06 (C)



- 29 -
Annex S
Page 2 of 2
PORTS  EHABIL?ATION PROJEgT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COgLETIOU REP'R
CompalAnce witth Lgo  Cndit ions
^&"                    Actlgg ag4uitreg                    Documnts                    Present Status
01/01/82       Introduction of uniform costing and    Project Agreement          Uniform costing of services under-
accounting systems                        4.01 (b)               way.  Common accounting system
awaiting passage of legislation.
01/01/82       Introduction of cost-related tariff    Loan Agreement             Tariff study completed.  Tariff
structure                                 3.09                    structure is generally adequate.
Transport Planning Studgia
10/31/79      Appointment of consultants for             Agreed minutes.         Phase I study completed.
Phases I and It                           dated 03/12/79          Phase II study completed.
June 1985
49430



-&  N      N       W      W~~~~~r-
U' A 
0--                                               --0
JAn                                            i
CP  Feb~~~~~~~~~~*~* 
. . .. ...   ... t'
Apr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Det~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Jan.
Feb'.**~1jj~1'j    '*



PRIOJECT CREPRT
E           TATION PRWEtT - L       9              L -
TOtat TCOD a DB  Ports Traffi.
20!'__
Is
10
GE  N     E L    C AR_
.9                                 r) .-                                       L__s :.82
CAMfM Yu":



- 32 -
ANNEX 8
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PORTS REtABDILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COIIPLETIO04 REPORT
Inventory of Port Handling EKuipment
by Type and Age
0-5    6-10   11-15    16-20    21-25    26-30    31 +  Total
Age (Yrs.)
Portal Cranes
Up to 5t               33       3       1I         9       14        20        13    102
6 t to l0 t             15       1       -         2         -         3         5      26
11 t to 25 t             2      -        l         -         2         1         -       7
Over 26 t                4      _        _        _          _        _         _        4
TOTAL                     54       4      12        11        16        24        18    139
(39l)   F3)    IN)         t82)    (112)    (1-;1)    (13%) (150OS)
Mobile Cranes
Up to 5 t               32     14        -         -         I         1        31      79
6 t to l0 t            47       1        1         1         7        12         2      71
ll t to 25 t            12      5        1         3         1         1         1     24
Over 26 t                -      -        2         -                   -                 4
TOTAL                     91      20       4         4         9        14        36    178
s.511;)  (l2)    (22) (22)    05%       (80)    (2001 (1002)
Forktlifts
Up to 3 t               72     21       53         2        26        24        37    235
4 t to 7 t              48     21        -        11         -         -         -     80
8 t to t2 t             12      -       11         2         -         -         -      25
28 t                    4       --                           -                   -      4
40 t to 45 t             8      -        -                   -        -          -      8
TOTAL                    144     42       64        15        26        24        37    352
(411)  (121R   (18Z4) (1)            (7%)      (72)    (111) (1001)
Miscellaneous
Tow Tractors (cont)       30                                   -                   -      30
Tow Trailers (cont)       44       -       -         -         -         -         -     44
Tow Tractors (Misc.)    21         8      18         4         1         -         2      54
Tow Trailers (Misc.)    47         -       -         -         -         -               47
Other Equipment            8       1       -         -          .        -         -      10
TOTAL                    150       9      18         4         2         -         2    185
(811)   (52)   (101)       (22)      (1%)        -       (11) (1001)
Source: TCDD and TDI
4341D
May 1985.



TURKEY
PORTS REHA1ILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COWLETION REPORT
TICC  RaII#owOlgarzolfloChat -  Ikmot  Pots Ope.doe
t, tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  tExF ytL                              II IJ
I   .   I
14hxk..             _    _f%jk
I .-dh.4^ Lo4h
0~ ~ ~~a~                             AbbbkrX                                        g O* 
kx ~ ~     ~        ~       ~ ~ 1g1  
4    .:.- .E- E                                                    
1 ~~41w1z--ll 1 OBlAttJIX4IIJt { { PY*tGiXJIUt | [ | | tt 1  | t~~~~~~2691



TUllEY
PORTS REMIAILITATION PROJECT - LOAD 1741-TU
PROJECT COWLETIO  ET            [ I I
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  I                                             
I-                              I -- ---- - - -- --
CUL. .Vdks.                                                      Moomb6aqoc
EX   I   I  I  ;X*a--l 1- 1 1 I F~~~ I~E~
*               -------T---'----r~~-~~~(rmwdtkd              A%xww OKb
, sm*.moO                   a
W%                                                            W O  h                         5
b ^.^S v m  E    s    H   w
ho d   _      9aw" . e    __        _                   .__ 47                                                      _  _. 



- 35 -
ANNEX 10(a)
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Trsining Courses for Port Workers
1. Dockworkers
T1  StEgiard signals for operators
2. as ardous goods
3. Port dictionary
4. Knots and ties
5. Containers
II.  Supervisors
A.  1.  Merchant ships and their important function
2. Cargo handling tools and equipment
3. Forces
4. Port Operations, storage methods, ship stowage plan, loading,
unloading, and slinging
3.  1.  Safety
2. Planning and control
3. Relation of shipping agents and port
4. General supervision principles
5. Training Responsibilities of a supervisor
6. Port statistics.
C. 1. Work law
2. Port tariffs
3. Port and custom regulations
D. 1. Containers
III. F/L - M/V Operators
1. F/L Operators (practical and theory)
2. M/V Operators (practical and theory)
IV. Mechanical Maintenance and Repair
1. Fuel circuits
2. Lubrication circuits
3. Cooling circuits
4. Maintenance
5. Safety at workshops
6. Measuring tools and how to use them
7. Electrical circuits
8. Hydraulic circuits and lub. oils
9. Transmission systems
10. Overhauling an engine
11. General principles of diesel and petrol engines
12. General breakdowns and repair with problems.
13. Engines



- 36 -
ANNEX 10(b)
Tu3KE                         Page 1
PORTS RZIUULISATIO PR1JtCT - LOAN 1741-TU
PROJECT CO TTXOU UROIT
TRADNG  LLOWIS
0MC. TCDD & DB)
I1Stdyw'Lw of 4 Sod=            0.7      TM  mA&U           23.S.81-
Official. to            ,              kd4.p  s        1 t3.8.1961
2     P,c muvat oi*AJ           0.7       m gyua c,id a   3.9.81-
smi                                                  26.9.81
3               O"s fm          2.0      I     Ub91 D.t     12.
zr_, D                                 ku    l AOw   8.11.1
to  Z"i muWaS
n         -               :~~~~~~D <alk s4ll
a
De  rtmi tnm=
mm a
sa -es Qei
4      P1o       :ut   u         2.0     a   iuiS of   sLm    24. t.St
ztaS        in                    a  Xiiz Ki t4lai _2.3.31
Maim XL
S       Pon     ar.             10       Z4nSb oO  MmSNtn o
ft13owiswp In            ;,U.XW.m 
6  b*tlUwU OAM           O       L   sw4a, got odt Tif   i
rsiat cepug .dwuaia  w otJc6 . ef
Slysattia Ssl. ut  Saqtie           i
_ 81yw~~~~~~~~~atti, lo_ PMO
7.  Sbidy tOW fo        rWCLs   MC 1, DW, -I Dli.
Srfdwu                            a._  . as1a t    DaV.
Fta  kvs-   . Mr am.
Em~  SC. Z*_J tNs.  O
arw Y.    Mau           owt-. Ds.
OinIt a-# Mtal)   Pa A. mAp.  __
8a oui *                 Da p . W
8u1n "atSa. Of emon



- 37 -
MrMNc  ELLOWSHIPs                               ANM    10(b)
LI                                     Page 2
1,      Seinoar on Deuian & Constructiop of Breakwaters & Coetal Structures
at Santander. Spain, JulY 2-5. 1980
Mr. Umer Seyrskoglu, Regional Director for Izmir#
Mr. Ayhan Oserden, Deputy Regional Director for Istanbul,
Mrs. Ulker Yetkin, Chief of Research Division, Ankara.
2.      Study Towrs of Ports of Rotterdam, ZebruLO                      t  Le Havr.e
Dunkerque, MAtwerp and the Delta Works.
Group A - April 12 - April 24, 1982.
Group B - May 16    - May 29, 1982.
Group C - June 20  - July 3, 1982.
1- ARUDAW  tU        Divisiot  Director Of T41e4lsI.
2. R9IMA  efiks Chief Painew In Divisi  Dreotosate of Astal7a.
3- ITU  Selehattin: Assistant Dilxdel  Ditector of Rmdsuaa.
4- gIwor Selehattins Iaspection  gineer
5- 2UDST Cahits Director of Realiestion of Canstruotims at the Oeisl
directorate.
6. JWAL'ALT Ali SyfWi Chief blasew  in i Divisiam fwetorate of lEo!t .
7- !TWA Ayd%ns Chief gginser in Divisioa Directerate of tsuii.
8- iIAIAL Jetias Assistot division Drectoer of Seaman.
2- IWRAT Ns.dlhs Director of Supply at tbs Conorl Directorate.
10- *WWVW Cihat ilesas  Chief  glneer in Divisio  Directorte of Seasm.
1i- SONIVR Netlsa Director of Ahiteturl  stl              at thw Cone
directorat.
12- SOftU Tilmss Assistant Oseral Director.
23- t1SUL Neodet: Assistnt Divisieo  Director of tseadwm.
Croup 3:
1- ADt? !3yase Chief thier in Division Direetorate of Istashel.
2-Al 1ftl Tams Depavtmt Chief at the CGeel Dreorate.
3- AM( K sxran Altays Chief Drinew in Divisi o   D;rsetorate ot Isote*bl.
4-. ARAS Ba 4n:t Directer of Bquipmont at the Consral Diroctorate.
5-ASUJA *stafts Cief DiWgneer in Division Dirsetorate of Sausim.
6- 9TVR Bilp: Direotor of vinal Fatiewtes at the C4zenel Dtreetorate.
7- C15 1iets :nspeotien Angienr tn Division Diresaorate cf Iudarms .
COMM3 2irkan Chief VVineer in Division Dirseteroxa  of mlur.
9. DfPRAY Isaiks Division Director of Antaly.
30- ErSCI tale:s Estiates and Speeifications kginewr in Divisidn Directrat ci
11- UZAY VTysi: Teceical Chief in Cenoral Direetorate.
12. aZCAI Surnns Chist Enfineer in Divisicn Diretotrato et Ssumm.
13- IP1S Eael: Chief Enineoer in Division Directorate of t ir.
arew CI
1- AXC1L Ahmets Director In Division Directorate ot leotbuhl.
2- AT?Nt ;nols Assistant Director of Division Directorate of tImir.
3- 4A1ZCS R obut ELin: Chief bEiineer in DiviLaen Directorate of stUnbul.
4- OtAt 0llents Teoctcal Chbof m Diviioin Directorate Of tsmir.
5- BVtRL? Deua: Chiot 9tnineor in Divisicn Diretorste ot Sanscan.
6- USFO  Ceil l Ein: Tecnical Chief an General Direotesate.
7- C11 'tat Chief bigineer in Division Directorato of lndgr6a.
8- ASAP  as: Division Diroetor of Bmusm.
9- MUt Vedts General ireetor..
10. KVI100W Cemls :nspection Engineer in Division Dimetorate of :Stmkd.
11- M      Robst Taisassa Assiotat Division Diroetor of Astelys
12- SI7ZZIWJ TUbed: Divisios Diroctor of Samu.
13- TOM  lbeas: Assirst  gbief of E4Uimt and Supply Deprtmt.in
te General Diretorate.



- 38 -
ANNEX 11
Table 1
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 1741-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comoarison of Actual and Forecast Traffic 1979-84 ('000 tons)
Annual
Growth Rates
1978         1979               1981               1984                   1978-84
Actual Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual 1/ Forecast 2/  Actual Forecast
General Carao
Foreign Trade   4,116   4,512    4,379    4,394    5,180    6,200        6,660         7.1      8.4
Coastal           292      361      295      300       300      260        318        -1.9      1.4
Transit           460      627      411    1,242       370    4,340        370        45.4    -3.6
Sub-total    4,868   5.490    5.085    5,936    5.850   10.800       7.3448        14.2    -7
Dry BulK
Foreign Trade   2,565   1,824    2,957    1,785    3,610    3,740        4,780         6.5    10.9
Coastal         1.775   1,902    1.958    2,089    2,340    3,130        2,960         9.9      8.9
Suo-total    4 t340   3.726    4.915    3,814    5.950    6.870      7.740          8.0    10.1
Liquid Bulk
Foreign Trade   3,310   2,341    3,476    3,291    4,060    6,670        5,110        12.4      7.5
Coastal         1.650   2.354    1.679    2.484    1.740    3.560        1.840         13.7     1.8
Suo-total    4.960   4.695    5.155    5,775    5.800   10,230       6.950         12.8     TN
Total-Dry
Cargo         9.190   9,216   10.000    9.810   11.800   17,670    15.088           11.5     8.6
Total-Ory
Cargo less
Transit       8.73U   8.589    9.589    8.568   11,430   13,330    14,718            7.3      9.1
General
Total         14,150  13.911   15.155   15.585   17,600   27.900    22,038           12.0      7.7
I/ Based on data for first ten months.
2/ Based on 1985 forecasts from appraisal report.
Source; TCOD ano TDI
4943D



- 39 -
MAX_U
Table 2
TURKE
PORTS REMAUILITATIUO PROJECT (LoAM 1741-TUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cargo Handlina Performanee 1982 - General Cartn
Trabzon     Samun   Istanbul   HaXdargasa    Izmnr    tbnritn    Iskunderun
*o. of ships          176         151         381        520         438       1.444         465
Waitng Tim
Hours           25,370      2.912           20          0           0      43.132      27.538
Hours/ship         121          19           -          0           0          30          59
Sgryiec Time
Hours          21.332      22.970      2S.241      63.627      29,671    181.920       50.529
Hours/ship         144         15Z         66         122          68         126         109
W/S ratio            1.19        0.13        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.24        O.S4
TInnace
Total (000)        373        669         285       1,353         593       2.135       1.270
Tons/ship        2.118      4.432         748       2,602       1,3S3       1.479       2,734
% Ship tim worked       -          53          64          S7         70          46          64
Gangs/shift/ship      -           2.4         0.7         1.6        0.7         1.3         2.0
Tons/ship hour       17.6        30.1        11.3       20.7        20.0        11.9        2S.5
Tons/ship day         422         723         271        497         480         286         612
Tons/gang hour          -        24.1        24.1       22.1        34.6        18.9        18.9
tie idle               -          13          41          23         47          33           19
Tons/moter of quay      -         808           -      1,037           -       1.417         344
49430



- 40 -
AM"EX II
Table 3
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 1741-tUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cargo Handling Perfarmance 1983 - Dry Bulk
Trabon       SamiUn   Istanbul   HaXdArfasa    1nnir    Me1in    Iskenderun
No. of ships           84         184         121          38         117         123         101
Wailing Time
Hours            3.957       4.273         106           0           0       2,500       S.345
Hours/ship          47          23           1           0           0          20          53
Service Tima
Hours            7,089      15.886       7,673       3.971       6.219      12.099       9.769
Hours/ship          84          86          63         105          53          98          97
W/S ratio            0.56        0.27        0.01         0.0         0.0        0.21        0.55
Tonnage
Total (000)        380       1,003         107         368         S26         516         619
Tons/ship        4,522       5.453         885       9,673       4,498       4,195       6.126
% Ship time worked       -          48         11            -          23          36          86
Gangs/shift/ship      -           1.2         O.S         -           0.6         0.9          1.2
Tons/ship hour       41.9        66.9        16.4       102.6.      124.7        42.2        71.0
Tons/ship day       1.006       1,606         394       2,462       2.993       1.013       1.704
Tons/gang hour           -      113.0         564            -       75.1       112.9        72.3
% time idle              -          21          So           -          34          38          14
Tons/meter of quay       -        189                   1,558            -      2,018       2.088
49430



- 41 -
ANNIXII
Table 4
tURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 1741-TUI
Costs and Benefits (USS OOO - 1984 prices)
B e        n e f i t  1/  2/
Ship a/       Ship _/        Ship I/          i/
Project Costs        Service        Waiting         Service       Reduced
xYar     Canital ! Oon.cats a    GenCargo       Gen.Cargo      Dry Bulk         Damage        Total
1980       5.000         -
1981      42,000         -
1982      42,000    1,000               -              -                                            _
1983      48.000    2,000               -              -             -              -               -
1984      23,000    3.000         23.000         20.000         6.S00           6.500         S6,000
1985            -    3.000        45.000         40.000         13.000         13.000        111.000
1986           --    3.000        4S.000         40.000         13,000         13,000        111,000
1987            -    3.000        45000         40,000         13.000         13.000        111.000
1988            -    3.000        45.000         40.000         13.000         13,000        111.000
1989            -    3.000        45.000         40,000         13.000         13.000        111.000
1990            -    3.000        45.000         40,000         13.000         13.000        111,000
1991            -    3.000        4S.000         40,000         13.000         13.000        111,000
ER = 39X
1 Benefits beyond 1984 are based on 1984 traffic levels which correspond to full utilization of Dort
equipment.
ZI The useful life of most equipment provided under the project is between 8 and to years; benefits
have therefore been ignored beyond 1991.
/  Throughput: for general cargo without projcct are issumed to decline from 380 tono per ship day in
1977 to 285 tons in 1982. With new equipment, throughputs for conventional general cargo
increased to 400 tons in 1982 and 460 tons in 1984.
4/ Ship waiting time savings are comparable to appraisal estimates, the higher traffic volumes being
offset by higher productivity levels.
J/ Dry bulk throughputs have increased from 700 tons per ship day to about 1200 tons under the
project.
i/ Assume a saving of 0.25X per ton for conventional general cargo and a cargo value of $800 per ton:
applied only to Turkish trade.
49430



PROJECT COIWLETIOR REPORT
TURKEY: PORTS RENIALITATION PROJECT - LOU  1741-TU
OB - Ports Operations
IncAne Statement
(TI million)
For the year ending Oecsb r 31,                    1980        1981             1982                    1983              1984              1985
Appraisal              Appraisal                             Appraisal
Actual     Actual      Actual  Forecast        Actual  Forecast       Actual      Projected  Forecast
Operatina Revnues
Charges on vessels                              2,196       3,449      5,997       381         8,019       420        13,105       13,019        490
Charges on cargo                                1,367       2.211      4,287       672         7,895       747        12,174       12,859        884
Other                                             669       1.033       1.734       42         1.529        45         2.S60        3.066         51
Total                                      4,232       6,693      12,018    1,095        17,443     1,212        27,839       28,944      1,425
Operatiop expenses 
Working expenses                                3,541       S,752      5,826    2,005          6,904    2.206         9,133        12,746      2,669
Depreciation                                       42          94        125        79           470       132          500           634        152       '
Total                                      3,583       5,846      5,951    2,084          7,374    2,338          9,633       13,380      2,821
Net operating IncoMe/W(oss)                       649         846       6,067     (989)       10,069   (1,126)        18,206       15,564    (1,396)
Moe-Operatinq Itoms
Interest charges                                               -           -        50             -        66          426           478         64
Ad valorem duty revenue                         2,076       3,736      4,439       941         4,982     1,052         7.108        7,5S0      1.371
Oter  o-perating incme                            (tloss)  (1.020)      (204)       32          (240)      33                         120      .J(3S)
Total                                      2,005       2,716      4,235       923         4,742     1,019         6,810        6,952      1.343
Oft incAe                                       2,654       3.562      10,302      (66)       14,811      (107)       25,076       22.516        (53)
Operating ratto                                    85          87         50       190            42       193           35            46        198
mne 1965



u     a           ij,  
~~~~~I _
a  a a bX. E  E 1^s   S1stN   1t 1
t      S IsW t      |               |  |
V      .%1 W*  1    fel     *1'.    1 4t
g~ ~~~~LI *a. S et     2lt     ;6w1f
V                                     I  X      S tM 1 
a  8  $ 18|t   9  t 10@    " 1t@ -..  I.. I      L
u    8  S    8-@   g      1|-*   lX   -"-@   1t   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b.
"  "   s  0 t   "   "   "jbjII   I  J
g a X 18Ws  | | 1BX  X Sl  12~~4 
|~~~~~M~   i         1     1|  iCI
z .1Ps ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ II
* st .~~~~~~~~~~~



PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
TURKEY. PORTS REKABILITATION PROJECT - LMN 1741-TU
TC00 - Ports Operations
Balance Sheet Suar
(TL million)
AS of Decber 31,                                #VdO       1981             1982                  1983             1984              1985
Appraisal             Appraisal                           ApprWasal
Actual     Actual     Actual  Forecast      Actual  Forecast      Actual      Projected  forecast
Gross fixed assets                                984      1.199      2,060    1,934        11.471    4,596       30,982       38,030     6,465
Less: accumlated depreciation                     332        371        485       575        3.257      75g        5.491        6.529     1.201
Net fixed assets                                  652        828      t.575    1,359        8,214    3.837        25,491       31,501     5,254
Work-in-progress                                  138        291        824    2.612                 125  1                        -
790      1.119      2.399    3,971        9,267    3.837        25.491           -      5,254
Net current assets                             (1,046)      (359)       776    3.598           344    4,336        6,771       17.301     6,126
Other assets                                      756          6          2        -            5         -            7          100         -
Capital ewlayed                                   500        766      3.177    7,569         9,616    8,203       32,269       48,902    11,380
Represented by;
Govwerment equtty                         S00         765      3,176    2,954        6,200    2,972        25,000       25,000     4,792
Reserves no retained earnngs                           - -         -    3.356        3.415    4.010         7.268       4.530      S562
500        765      3,176    6,310        9,615    6,982        32,268       29,530    10,354
Long-term debt                              -           1          1    1.259            1    1.221            1        19.372     1026
500        766      3,177    7,569        9,616    8,20:        32,269       48,902    11,380
Debt/Equity ratio                               0/100      0/100      0/100    16/84         0/100    15/85        0/100        40/60      9/91
June 1985



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY: PORTS REMABILITATION PROJECT - LOAN 1741-TU
DB - Ports Operations
Balance Sheet S_ary
(TL million)
As of December 31,                                1980       1981             1982                   1983             1984              1985
Appraisal             Appraisal                             Appraisal
Actual     Actual     Actual  Forecast       Actual  Forecast      EtMS_d    ProJected  Forecast
Gross fixed assets                                1.064      1,888      2,106     1,878       11.561    2,976        15.661        19,056     3,876
Less: Acctmulated depreciation                     328         432        544       460        3.934      592         4.615        S.409        895
Net fixed assets                                   736       1,456      1,562     1,418        7.627    2,384        11,046       13,647      2,981
Work-in-progress                                   161         247        422    1.073             6          _         106          419         -
897      1,703       1,984    2,491        7,633    2,384        l,S2        14,066     2.981
Net current assets                                (336)    (1,294)        108       395          773       375        6,396        13,390       403
Other assets                                     3.285       4.329      5.623      _             104                     04           O4-
Capital eaployed                                 3,846       4,738      7,715    2.886         8,510    2,759        17,652       27,560      3,384
Represented by:
GovervAmnt equity.
Capital                                      5           -          -    1.978             -     1,978         1,716        1.716     2,828
Reserves and retained earnings            2.6?8      3.606       5.865      389        6.794       282        11.811       20.860       136
2,683      3,606      5,865    2,367         6,794    2,260         13,527       22.576     2.964
Long-term debt                            1.163      1.132       1.850      S19         1,716      4g9        4.125         4.98        420
3,846      4,738      7,715    2,886         8,510    2,759        17.652        27,560     3,384
Debt/Equity ratio                                30/70       24/76      24/76    18/82         20/80    1U182         23/77         18/82     12/88
June 1985



- 46 -
ANNEX 13
BORROWER CO*METS
ZCZC DIST4494 JWS0828,
OEDOD
REF t TCP FCA
JW50929 JiU098 IN 21/14i20 OUT 21/14124
42571 TCDD TR
42571 TCDD TR,
42571 TCDD TR
44 00 98
WORLD DANK
WASHINGTON D*C/U.S*A*
ATTENTION rOtmR .YUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR
OPERATIONS FVALUATION DEPARThENT
REF t 1741-TU PORTS REHADILITAT EON PROJET PROJET COMPLETION
REPORTPYOUR LETTER DATED MARCH 3 1986
THE DRAFT PROJECr COMPLETfION REPORT PREPARED DY THE BANK
HAS BEEN EXAMINED AND ITS TEXT AND FliURFS HAVE BEFN CROSS-CHECKED
BY TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE PROJET COMPLETION REPORT WHIC HAD BEEN
PREPARED AND SENT TO THE BANK BY TCDD IN APRIL./1J85.
WE ARE GLAD TO INFORM THAr THE DRAFT HAS BEEN FOUND QUITE
SATtSFACTORY.
DESI REGARDS.
11270-33-7-1/1978                    BARR I SAYLI OENERAL DIRECTOR
DEMIRYOL ANKARA+
M21-03-1986
21-20
42571 TCDD TR
w03211423
ALT RTD FROMtOEDN
NUNN
MAR 2 4 199



25-                                                          0,31
BULGARIA  r                   '                              30                     B / a c- k                                   5 e a
Edirne   Kirklareli                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Inebolu    Silnop
-    Bartinnorte
ui    ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ tO                      .Korasu   Erei                          stamon             Somsun
B rsa      Ieci    .  ''rou
r  lkizqir                     ~~~~Eskdiehir      ~0Yza
\ Ber omaKtay                                   (
wto
ui~ 'e r  fe                                                                                                             nSy
QC                                                               ir -,g,
H w  t    vvf e  >>  f  e   r  r  Q   n eivrnl          e  c     Aqei                           Nevfi  i             (aserI
(    T UuRKurYt,4  
Aydin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 
Niodekndru
4)~~   ~~~ Oprte1yurih3urme8n (B
Antailwaaramnt
Main~ ~~fmo roadsa
is
Loation*o  Mante PortsonalondaTranpotLik
a   ne a n35YRA
Project Ports:
Operated by Turkish Maritime Bank (DS)
4Operated by Turkish State Railways (TCDD)
Other Ports:
*Industrial
AOperated by Turkish Moritime Bank WDB)
-Main roadsF
* Rivers
International boundaries
30                                             /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~350
310" ~~~~~~~~~~~/I



IBRD 13702R
35                                                         400
S Sinop                                                                                    U.   S.  S.   R.
Ho
-' <\Samsun      )i                                                 _/ ArtvlnOG         
U f                   r U  f              e
j 2~ab ' ~,1/                                                                                             AAa
Gresun    (SU _
Arnosyo                         G       imUyhonars
rum                                                                                                   ,Is 4RA
Sivas
rr
hirRIAN   ARAB   REP.                              G      5 B0 10|0   150    <1   zn'15   3010                         35in  REP. OF
r           POLAND 5~~~~~~~~~~~IA
,a%                                                                         uscei  V-  n- 
Malatya 
*            /                     Diyorbokir      Batmanyarba
\O~~S ~~ Mara~~             Siverek
4'       /; ~                                            v\                     
c)-  '~~~~-'          G~~aziantef
umurta.lik                                                                                 R       Q A  
Iskenden
~~-\SYRIAN   ARAB   REP.  ~~~~0              50    100    150    200    250    300    350    40              35-
~~SYRIAN ARAB REP. ~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
40
POLAND 
/                           .-..%~~~~~~~~~~~~~( ~~U.       S.          S.         R.
,s  .)BULGARIA                                   .                '-        ,
t/1 1N h., bee P.d t,  J_
a~~~C~  <f St                                                              ).-.o    _s p 
To  r. ow  F .tj S U   -,
I~ ~~~~~~~~CP~  tdt_                            9 I      ' -                 T U  R  K  E Y                  t- 
,.Js4d.V P* e tb- f-
Co'ooLnd 11e OcOes sc- ., 
nIswdoraW cw,OGREECCE
ISLAMIC REP.
t FrfcnOO Coa~Fpr                                          5 -                      4 Of IRAN
| 35  e>sce680t                        SYRIAN  )IRAQ
350    ..                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAB RP.
CYPRUS         -.                            JN  19
JUNE 1986



