Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2227c-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 12, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(As of April 5, 1979)
Currency Unit             =            Turkish lira (TL)
TL 1                      =            100 kurus (krs)
US$i                      =            TL 25
TL T I                                 US$0.04
'Pt ,OO0OOOf              -            US$40,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)           =            2.20 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BB          -         (Denizcilik Bankasi)
Turkish Maritime Bank
DWT                   Deadweight Tonnage
GDP         -         Gross Domestic Product
GRT          -        Gross Registered Tonnage
HP                    Horsepower
ICB         -         International Competitive Bidding
TLo                   International Labour Organisation
LI           -        General Directorate of Harbour Construction
(Limanlar Insaati General MD) in the Minis-
try of Public Works
M{LW         -        Mean Low Water
NRT          -        Net Registered Tonnage
PCC          -        Project Coordination Committee
SEE          -        State Economic Enterprise
SPO                   State Planning Organization
TCA          -        Transport Coordination Agency
TCDD                    Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demir Yollari)
Turkish State Railways
TCL         -         Turkish Cargo Lines
TEU         -         Twenty-foot Equivalent Units
TFrf        -         (Turk Hava Yollari)
Turkish Airlines
INICTAD      -        Unted Nations Conference on Trade
and Development
ULBB United Nations Development Programme
Fourth Plan T          urkey's Fourth Five-Year Plan 1979-83
New Ports Institution - A national ports authority or any other
viable institutional arrangement to be
established to own and operate public
ports in Turkey.
FISCAL YEAR
(of DB and TCDD)
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................................             1
A.   The Transport System ............1............... 
B.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination ....            2
C.   Previous Bank Group Transport Sector Operations
in  Turkey  ......................................         4
II.   THE PORTS SUB-SECTOR AND PROJECT PORTS ....    ..........        5
A.   Ports Sub-Sector ...............................            5
B.   Project Ports ..................................           17
III.   THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT ..................         21
A.   Ports Sub-Sector Investment Program      ............     21
B.  Project Objectives ......     .......................      21
C.  Project Description ......     ......................      22
D.  Cost Estimates         .................................   24
E.  Financing Plan ....................                        26
F.   Project Execution, Supervision and Reporting ...           27
G.   Procurement and Disbursement         .    .     .         31
H.   Retroactive Financing .     .........................     33
I.   Environmental Impact     .      .................         34
J. Impact on Employment             . . .34
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .34
A.   Traffic Analysis and Projections      . . .34
B.   Project Benefits ......                  .    ..           37
C.   Economic Costs of the Project        .    .     .42
D.   Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis                  43
This report is based on information provided by the Transport Coordina-
tion Agency, the Turkish State Railways and the Turkish Maritime Bank, and on
the findings of an appraisal mission in April-May 1978 composed of Messrs.
T. Pankaj (Transport Economist), A. Krishnan (Financial Analyst) and R. Y.
Scheiner (Port Engineer, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                              Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ................................               44
A.   General Objectives .............................               44
B.   Finances - Present and Projected ....       ...........        45
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........ .......              50
ANNEXES
1.   Detailed Project Components and Cost Estimates ...........               52
2.   Documents in Project File .................................               54
MAPS
1.   Turkey - Location of Main Ports and Transport Links,
Map No. IBRD 13702
2.   Turkey - Marmara Region Ports, Map No. IBRD 13703



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01      Turkey, with an area of 777,000 sq. km., is a mountainous country
with about 50 percent of the territory rising over 1,600 meters. Its large
size and often rugged terrain have added greatly to the difficulty of con-
structing the country's transportation system. This system, in the form of
road, rail, sea, and air links or combination thereof, now extends to all
major provincial centers. Transportation services are provided by both the
state and private sectors, with road transport in the hands of generally small
private entrepreneurs, rail and air transport services operated by State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and ports and maritime transport being handled by
both public and private enterprises.
1.02      During the early years of the Republic, major emphasis was placed
on developing the railway network. However, for the last 25 years this net-
work has remained essentially unchanged in size at around 8,000 km, although
a small line extension was built in 1971 to connect Turkey with Iran; con-
struction of a new high-speed line connecting Istanbul with Ankara was
.recently initiated, but further work on it is now under review. This initial
emphasis on rail development was replaced in the late 1940's and early 1950's
by large-scale efforts to develop the country's road network, which today
constitutes the main transport system. From 1950 to 1977, the length of all
surfaced and provincial roads more than doubled from 24,000 km to over 59,000
km. The emphasis on road development has also been accompanied by an increase
in the size of the motor vehicle fleet, which rose from less than 200,000 in
1965 to over 900,000 in 1977. With the main road network in place, Government
efforts since the late 1960's have concentrated on improvement of the existing
infrastructure and on development of a network of village roads.
1.03      In 1977, the Turkish merchant marine consisted of 347 ships of
300 gross tons and over, with a combined gross tonnage of 1,228,500; of this
tonnage, general cargo vessels and ferries accounted for 35%, tankers 29%,
bulk carriers 26% and other vessels 10%. Of the total ships 182 were pri-
vately owned, constituting about 32% of total tonnage. The remaining 165
ships were publicly owned, making up 68% of total tonnage. The fleet is
considered by the Government to be inadequate in size, being able to carry
only about one-third of Turkey's imports and exports. The Turkish Maritime
Bank (DB), which is a Government-owned company called State Economic Enter-
prise (SEE), passenger shipping (both coastal and foreign), while the Turkish
Cargo Lines (TCL), another SEE, handles cargo traffic (both coastal and
foreign). Coastal traffic in cargo and passengers is reserved for Turkish
ships. Turkey's private sector shipping competes in all these trades.
1.04      Turkey's large coastline and its rugged terrain have caused the
growth of many ports in Turkey, though many of them are small jetties and
landing places (see Chapter 2 below for more details on the ports sub-sector).



-2-
1.05      At the end of 1978, sixteen airports were in use for scheduled
domestic traffic, including five airports (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Adana and
Antalya) which were also being used for international traffic. The civil
airports are operated by the General Directorate of State Airports. Turkish
Airlines (THY), an SEE, provides the domestic air services as well as service
abroad.
1.06      The present overall pattern of transportation in the country reflects
the rapid growth and dominance of road transport. The share of highway freight
traffic in total transport increased from about 40% in 1960 to about 76% in
1977, the share of highway passenger traffic increasing in the same period
from about 73% to about 96%.  The total railway traffic, on the other hand, has
remained fairly stable in absolute terms in recent years, with its relative
share declining. In 1977, the railways carried about 14% of total goods
traffic and less than 3% of total passenger traffic. The other modes carried
even less; coastal sea transport accounted for about 10% of total goods
traffic and 0.2% of passenger traffic, while air transport handled 0.9% of
domestic passenger traffic and a very small portion of freight traffic.
B. Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
1.07      Responsibility for transport sector planning, policy development,
and investment is divided among a large number oif key ministries and agencies.
The main agencies involved are: (a) the Ministry of Transportation, which
significantly contributes to transport policy ancl also oversees the main SEEs
in the transport sector - the Turkish Maritime Bank (DB), Turkish Cargo Lines
(TCL), Turkish State Railways (TCDD), Turkish Airlines (THY); (b) the Ministry
of Public Works primarily responsible for planning and execution of all
transport infrastructure projects including planning, policy and construction
of highways; (c) Ministry of Village Affairs responsible for village road
development; and (d) the State Planning Organization (SPO) which coordinates
and helps determine project priorities in conjunction with the Ministry of
Finance.
1.08      The need for improved coordination of the sector and a system
for ensuring an appropriate determination of modal, sector, and national
priorities has been recognized by the Government for sometime and incorporated
as a major goal in its development plans. With this objective, and in close
cooperation with the Bank, the Government established a Transport Coordination
Agency (TCA) in 1970. Initially attached to SPO, TCA was subsequently incor-
porated in the Ministry of Transportation. During negotiations in 1972 for
the First Railway Project (Loan 893-TU), an initial program of work for TCA
was agreed upon which included several specific studies: the adequacy of user
charges in all transport modes; the adequacy of the present management informa-
tion system; a study of the impact of import restrictions on availability of
transportation equipment and components; and formulation of a draft transport
policy statement, all of which have been essentially completed, and have been
used in support of preparatory studies for the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83)



-3-
and in preparation of proposals for recently implemented (1978) tariff in-
creases in all public sector transport undertakings. To assist TCA in devel-
oping its capacity to carry out transport coordination, a program of technical
assistance, financed through the UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, was
also agreed upon in 1972, the first phase of which has now been virtually
completed. The TCA, which operated on an interim basis requiring annual
renewal by Government decree until early 1978, has been incorporated from
April 1978 as a regular part of the Ministry of Transportation with respon-
sibility for transport planning and project coordination within the Ministry.
1.09      While TCA has by now built up considerable experience in transport
planning and policy research, it does not yet have the authority to effec-
tively coordinate transport planning and policy, since the Ministry of Trans-
portation deals with only part of the transport sector. In addition, neither
TCA nor other agencies concerned with transport (including SPO) have the
trained staff or expertise needed to conduct sufficient financial and economic
analyses of major transport investment decisions. As a result, inadequate
coordination of transport planning and policies and a less than optimal in-
vestment decision process remain as key problems facing the sector. To help
remedy this situation, TCA's recently completed draft report on transportation
sector development contains recommendations for strengthening transport sector
planning and coordination, including a consolidation of agencies concerned
with transport under the Ministry of Transportation; the Government is cur-
rently reviewing these recommendations. The Government has indicated through
the Fourth Five-Year Plan document, recently approved by the Parliament, that
organizational changes and studies on needed infrastructure improvements will
be speeded up. The proposed project includes technical assistance to complete
a detailed port sector planning study which the Government has recently
initiated through TCA. The Government is also considering preparation of a
national transport plan for the country based on regional multimode studies,
possibly with Bank or UNDP assistance.
1.10      Apart from deficiencies in coordination and planning, the other
main sectoral issues facing the Government are the following: (a) capacity
bottlenecks in the road system, both in urban centers and in non-urban areas,
due to the increased transport demand created by urbanization and industriali-
zation and an increase in international transit traffic. In particular, heavy
use of the road system and an ineffective system of truck weight and traffic
control have resulted in deterioration of road infrastructure combined with
escalating maintenance needs and high accident rates; (b) operational and
some physical constraints in the railway system, compounded by managerial
and organizational difficulties, resulting in its failure to draw a larger
share of industrial and transit goods traffic from the road system; (c)
bottlenecks in port capacity (as discussed in detail in paras. 2.23 to 2.29);
and (d) financial deficits of the SEEs in the transport sector and the need to
modernize their management. As reflected through the Fourth Plan objectives
and program, the Government is giving high priority in tackling these various
issues. On the issue of tariff levels, tariff rates and charges levied by
the SEEs in the transport sector were increased during 1978 by a range of 30%
to 80%; the Fourth Plan states that efforts will be made to study the actual



-4-
costs of various transport modes and to set tariEf levels in relation to such
costs and other related factors.
C. Previous Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Turkey
1.11      The proposed loan would be the fourth Bank loan in the transport
sector in Turkey. The three earlier loans were:
(i) loan 28--TU dated July 7, 1950, for US$12.5 million for port
development which included the following main components:
extension of Salipazari, Haydarpasa and Izmir ports, con-
struction of a new port at Samsun, mechanical equipment
for loading/unloading grain, ore and coal at Iskenderun,
essential repair and replacement of cargo-handling equip-
ment in the above ports and some harbor construction
equipmerLt for the Ministry of Public Works;
(ii)  a supplementary loan for port development No. 28-TU
Supplement No. 1 dated February 28, 1954, which increased
the original loan to US$16.3 million to meet increases in
project cost estimates arising from agreed changes in the
project and price increases after 1950;
(iii)  loan No. 893-TU dated May 25, 1973, for US$47 million for
the rehabilitation of the Turkish State Railways (TCDD).
The project covered by loans (i) and (ii) was expected to be completed in
1958 but was actually comnpleted only in 1962. Most of the construction was
finished by 1959 and many of the assets were in use by that date, but due
primarily to delays in completing equipment procurement, the loan was closed
only in June 1962. The railway project under the third loan, expected to be
completed in 1975, has been considerably delayed and disbursements for major
remaining equipment items are now expected to be completed by mid-1980.
Nevertheless, about 75% of the loan has been disbursed, and the physical
improvement elements of the project, such as track renewal, have now been
completed. Procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds. Despite two tariff increases
since the loan was made, the Railways have continued to fall short of meeting
the financial targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in
mid-1975.  However, it is hoped that the further increases in passenger and
freight tariffs averaging about 70-80%, which became effective in early 1978,
will improve the Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization
program is making satisfactory progress, other agreed measures to improve
operational efficiency and for conducting proper pre-investment studies have
not been given sufficient attention.
1.12      In addition to the above, transport components have been incorporated
as part of other Blank-supported projects. These include financing of a roll-on/
roll-off ferryboat and refrigerated trailers under the Fruit and Vegetable



- 5 -
Export Project (Loan/Credit 762/257 signed June 22, 1971) which project is now
substantially completed; a second roll-on/roll-off ferryboat already procured
under the Agro-credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan 1248 signed May 5,
1976); construction and improvement of village roads as part of the on-going
Corum Cankiri Rural Development Project (Loan 1130-TU signed June 23, 1975);
and construction and improvement of forest and logging extraction roads
including forest village access roads under the Northern Forestry Project
(Loan 1585-TU signed June 5, 1978).
II. THE PORTS SUB-SECTOR AND PROJECT PORTS
A. Ports Sub-Sector
a. General
2.01      Turkey has many seaports along its long coastline of about 7300 km.
These include 10 major public ports, (i.e., operated by public agencies for
general use by public), mainly handling international trade; about 30 small
municipal and other public ports, mainly for domestic traffic; and some 35
specialized port facilities owned by industrial complexes which handle their
own traffic. (See Map-IBRD No. 13702 for location of main ports.) These
ports handle over 90% of the country's foreign trade volume. Total port
traffic in cargo during 1977 was about 37 million tons, consisting of 20
million tons of oil traffic (8 million in coastal trade), 10 million tons of
dry bulk (half in coastal trade), and 7 million tons in general cargo (1
million tons in coastal, and 0.6 million tons in transit traffic). Of the
above, the public ports handled about 35% in oil cargo, 45% in dry bulk and
over 90% in general cargo. Since most of the high-value imports and exports
are handled as general cargo, the public ports, with such a large share of
this traffic, occupy a crucial role in handling the country's foreign trade.
2.02      The main problems facing Turkey's ports are, in order of priority:
(i) capacity and operational constraints, arising from inadequate facilities,
obsolete equipment and inefficient methods; (ii) inadequate subsector planning
to guide investments on a rational basis; and (iii) organizational, arising
from fragmentation of responsibility. These issues are discussed in detail
below, though in a different order.
b. Organization
Description
2.03      Port administration in Turkey is split among many agencies resulting
in inadequate coordination in port planning and management. The port facili-
ties in the private sector, most of which are for handling bulk cargo, are
operated by private industries for their own use. The administration of
public ports handling general cargo is divided between two SEEs: the ports



- 6-
of Haydarpasa, Derince, Samsun, Mersin, Iskenderun, and Bandirma are admin-
istered by the Turkish State Railways (TCDD), while Antalya, Salipazari,
Izmir, Trabzon, and six smaller ports are administered by the Turkish Maritime
Bank (DB) which operates, among other things, passenger shipping and shipyards.
Though both agencies are under the Ministry of Transportation, each operates
for the most part independently. Other main Government agencies dealing
with the planning and administration of public ports are: (a) the General
Directorate of Harbor Construction (LI) in the Public Works Ministry, which
constructs new port infrastructure for Government and passes them on to the
operating agencies, and also carries out the ports' maintenance dredging and
other major civil works maintenance on a contractual basis for the operating
agencies; (b) the Ministry of Industry, which cont:rols specialized industrial
ports serving particular industrial units as in Isdemir, Izmir, Zonguldak and
Eregli; (c) TCA, within the Ministry of Transportation, which partly assists
in investment planning and has recently been assigned by Government to coor-
dinate preparation and implementation of the proposed project between the
concerned agencies and with the World Bank; and (d) the State Planning Orga-
nization (SPO) and the Ministry of Finance, which together decide overall
project priorities and investment allocation. The State Planning Organiza-
tion, which is attached to the Prime Minister's Office, must approve all major
public investments in the ports sub-sector and is playing an increasingly
active role therein. While this ensures overall coordination in investment,
the SPO has to depend on the related Ministries for sector and project plan-
ning and feasibility studies. Present inadequacies in such planning studies
adversely affect the quality of investment allocation made by SPO (see paras.
1.09 and 2.15c).
2.04       Since the ten project ports (see Sectioni B, page 17) constitute a
major segment of the port sub-sector in Turkey, the basic organizational
features and problems of the port sub-sector also apply to the project ports.
TCDD and DB, which administer all the main public ports including the project
ports, are both under the supervision of the Ministry of Transportation, which
approves the annual budgets and investment prograrns of both organizations and
decides on policy matters and the pricing of services. Subject to these
controls both organizations operate as independent: enterprises; they are
managed by Boards of Directors consisting of 6 mermbers each appointed by the
Cabinet. The Director-General of TCDD and the General Manager of DB (the
chief executives of the two organizations) are Chairmen of their respective
boards.
2.05      In the headquarters of each organization there is a separate depart-
ment of ports headed by a ports director who is responsible for the overall
planning and functioning of the ports and their coordination. Each individual
port is managed by a port director. The total staff employed in the two
organizations for managing port activities is about 4800 in DB and 3900 in
TCDD, the administrative staff being roughly 24% of the total. Salaries and
wages in DB are generally higher than comparative levels in TCDD, and this
disparity is observed also in the case of ports urnder the two agencies.
2.06       Cargo handling in the project ports is carried out both on ship
and on shore by port staff working in two shifts with occasional overtime.



-7-
Temporary labor is recruited as required by work loads. Port labor is paid on
an incentive basis in the ports of DB, which leads to better output rates but
higher cargo damage. The port labor under TCDD receive monthly wages, not
based on outputs, resulting in lower throughputs. Government is presently
negotiating with the unions to evolve a uniform and improved payment arrange-
ment in preparation for the establishment of the proposed new ports organiza-
tion (see para. 2.22).
2.07      All major investments in construction of port infrastructure for
TCDD and DB are executed through the Ministry of Public Works, through funds
allocated to that Ministry from Government's annual budgets.  The Public Works
Ministry (through its harbor construction wing, LI) undertakes these construc-
tion works on force account or with the help of contractors. On completion of
the construction projects, the assets are transferred to the ports (to TCDD or
DB) and their values are then reflected in the TCDD or DB accounts as equity.
Usually, such completed works also include the necessary complement of port
equipment financed by Government through LI, but there are many exceptions to
this when TCDD or DB try to buy equipment through their own budgets. The
Public Works Ministry is responsible for maintenance of civil works for the
first two years after construction. TCDD and DB are responsible for further
maintenance of the facilities (both equipment and civil works), which they
may do on a contractual basis through LI or private firms, or in the case of
equipment, through their own workshops. TCDD and DB are also responsible for
purchases of additional equipment and floating craft, and for small additional
civil works met by provision in their respective budgets, and financed by
either their own resources or through short-term loans from commercial banks.
During 1976 and 1977,-such capital expenditure on new items financed by TCDD
and DB respectively amounted to about 20-25 million TL per annum.
2.08      With minor exceptions, all cargo-handling equipment for handling
general cargo in the project ports is owned, operated and maintained by TCDD
or DB for their respective ports. The port workshops owned by TCDD and DB
are by and large adequately equipped and would be able to cope with the main-
tenance of the new proposed equipment with only minor additions, provided
an adequate supply of spare parts is available, and provided the workshops'
staff are trained to maintain the new equipment. Government's agreement has
been obtained during negotiations that Government will allocate adequate
foreign exchange yearly to meet the essential repair and maintenance require-
ments of the existing port equipment and the new equipment to be provided
under the project.
Accounts
2.09      The financial transactions of the project ports are centralized in
the head offices of TCDD and DB at Ankara and Istanbul respectively. Daily,
monthly and quarterly statements are received at the head offices from the
constituent units and are recorded in sufficient detail to identify the
various items of income and expenditure portwise and to segregate the port
transactions from the other activities of the two organizations. In view of
the importance of treating the port finances on a separate footing, agreement
of DB and TCDD was obtained during negotiations (i) to continue to maintain
the port accounts separately; and (ii) henceforth to have them audited as
separate accounts.



-8-
2.10      Depreciation rates, based on Government regulations, for the various
categories of assets are adequate; but since the value of assets shown in the
accounts is based on their original or historical costs and since most of the
assets are fairly old and the costs shown in the accounts do not reflect the
real current values, the total amount of depreciation adjusted annually is not
sufficient to cover the replacement costs of the assets. It is therefore
necessary to revalue the assets and to evolve a suitable procedure for their
periodic revaluation. Provision has accordingly been made in the project for
providing consultancy assistance for the revaluation of port assets. During
negotiations, the Bank obtained Government's agreement to cause the assets of
the ports to be revalued based on a review of the consultants' recommendations
and to reflect the revised values in the financial statements from the year
ending 1981, at least on a pro forma basis. Government's agreement was also
obtained to undertake such revaluation and updat:ing of financial statements at
least once in every three years thereafter.
Audit
2.11      The annual accounts of the TCDD and DIB, which incorporate the
port transactions, are audited by the High Control Board under the Prime
Minister. The question of an independent audit of the port transactions of DB
and TCDD was discussed during negotiations, and it was agreed that Inspectors
or Accounting Auditors of the Ministry of Finance would undertake such audit,
with the understanding that the Bank reserves the right to review at any time
its decision to accept this arrangement.
Insurance
2.12      Both TCDD and DB are insured with Ray Insurance, a Government insur-
ance company (in which both TCDD and DB have shareholdings), against losses
and damage to property and other assets. The present arrangements are satis-
factory. During negotiations, agreement was obtained from TCDD and DB that
they will continue to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for coverage
of these and other risks in accordance with appropriate port practices.
Tariffs
2.13      Port revenues of the project ports are comprised of (i) tariffs
charged by DB and TCDD for port services (as charges on ship-owners and on
importers/exporters), such tariffs accounting for about 56% of total port
revenues, and (ii) an ad valorem duty called Dock Dues, of 5% of the value
of imports handled by the ports, collected from importers. This duty is
collected by the Customs Department and passed on to the port concerned. The
rate of the duty was originally 1% in 1936, raised to 2-1/2% in 1957 and
further raised to 5% in 1967.  This ad valorem duty which contributes to such
a large share of the ports' revenues (44%) is not related to any particular
service rendered by the ports to cargo or to ships.  The heavy dependence on
this duty distorts the tariff structure of the ports because (i) it is col-
lected from only one section of the port users (viz. importers), and (ii) it
results in other sections of the port users, such as foreign ship owners, not
paying the fair share of the cost of port services with loss to the country in



- 9 -
potential foreign exchange earnings. Since this ad valorem duty is imposed
only on port-based imports (this is not charged on foreign imports carried by
road, rail or air ways), this is also likely to distort the transport pattern
of imports by increasing the relative cost of shipping compared to overland
transport costs.
2.14      The distortions in the present port tariff and revenue structure
noted above highlight the need for proper costing studies to establish service-
wise cost data and to help introduce a proper cost accounting system for the
ports, in preparation for the eventual introduction of a cost-related tariff
system. Provision has accordingly been made in the project under technical
assistance for the services of a costing expert to prescribe a suitable cost-
accounting system for the ports; Government's agreement was obtained during
negotiations that the costing studies will be completed by October 31, 1980.
Government has also agreed during negotiations to introduce a more rational,
cost-related tariff structure for the ports before 1982, following these
costing studies (this is discussed in greater detail in para. 5.11).
Shortcomings in Sub-sector Organization
2.15      The main shortcomings of the present organizational arrangements
for Turkey's ports subsector are:
(a) There is no coordination between ports in many areas where
such coordination can be very useful for the country: for
organizing training, standardization of documentation
including collection of port operational statistics, and
in coordinating operations and resources between neighbor-
ing ports.  The fact that the main port facilities of
Istanbul are divided between the two agencies (Haydarpasa
under TCDD; Salipazari under DB) is a clear example of
uneconomic bifurcation of management.
(b) The two SEEs concerned with ports, TCDD and DB, have as
their main activity, railways and shipping, respectively.
They have therefore tended to regard ports as support
facilities to their main activity, and even though they
derive about 33% and 45%, respectively, of their revenue
from ports, this revenue has flowed straight through-to
support other activities to the detriment of ports (see
para. 5.04). As a result, the top management dealing with
ports is not port-oriented in outlook and experience.
(c) Port project planning (including at times feasibility studies
through local consultants) and design of facilities is done
by the Public Works Ministry without any active involvement
of the port operational agencies and without coordination with
the limited sector planning studies undertaken by the TCA.
2.16      In addition to the above deficiencies in sector organization and
coordination, there are problems related more to the policies adopted by the
port agencies--for example, their financial and tariff policies--which are
discussed together with the reforms agreed, in paras. 2.09 to 2.14 above.



- 10 -
Immediate Remedies Proposed
2.17      The proposed project envisages a number of measures (see list below)
to help coordination within the existing ports organizational structure, and
generally to meet the main shortcomings listed under para. 2.15. In partic-
ular, these measures aim at (a) coordinated and efficient implementation of
the proposed project, and (b) going beyond the project horizon, improvement
of the port sector organization in general. All these measures have been
agreed to by Government during negotiations, and with regard to some items,
Government have already initiated action. The main reforms proposed and
agreed in this regard are listed below, with suitable cross-references to more
detailed discussions occurring elsewhere in the report:
(a) to set up and implement, not later than January 1, 1981,
procedures for standardization of port equipment to be
bought by TCDD and DB, and for pooling of their spare parts,
on a continuing basis; this will be in continuation of the
common specifications and procurement procedures initiated
for implementing the proposed project, with suitable changes
(see paras. 3.16 and 3.17);
(b) to set up common training programs for TCDD and DB ports,
covering training of port labor and management, on a
regular basis, as a continuation of the joint training
programs started under the proposed project (see also
para. 3.18);
(c)  to introduce, not later than January 1, 1982, common
costing and accounting procedures for both TCDD and DB
ports;
(d) to set apart sufficient funds from current port revenues
of TCDD and DB to meet the ports' operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, debt-service and a reason-
able annual contribution to future expansion (see para.
5.12); such allocation of funds to be reflected in sepa-
rately maintained and audited port accounts (see para.
2.09);
(e) to improve quality of and coordination in port sector
planning and project design (i) by updating, on a con-
tinuing basis, the port sector plan prepared under the
proposed project, for which the TCA will be strengthened
as needed by January 1, 1982; (ii) by setting up an
interministerial committee on port sector planning con-
sisting of the Ministries of Transportation, Public Works,
Finance, SPO and other related agencies, to coordinate
the port planning study under the proposed project and
to oversee its future updating and implementation (see
para. 3.18); and (iii) by arranging for training abroad
of at least two port engineers from the LI in advanced
programs on harbor design to be completed by January 1,
1982;



- 11 -
(f)  to set up by January 1, 1981 an administrative machinery,
acceptable to the Bank, for the purpose of coordinating
the cargo-handling operations and utilization of related
facilities at the two Istanbul ports, viz. Haydarpasa and
Salipazari. Although a unified organization would be pre-
ferable, it is not practicable in the short run since fresh
legislation would be required for the purpose; the short-
term measures envisaged consist of setting up a committee
of the two agencies to define areas of cooperation followed
by regular meetings of the operational managers, for which
a protocol would be signed by the two managements. There
is already a precedent for this in the field of procurement;
and
(g)  to coordinate collection and analysis of port operational
and traffic statistics on a national basis, for which the
Ministry of Transportation will set up within TCA, not later
than September 30, 1979, a port statistics unit staffed by
qualified statisticians (see also para. 2.35).
2.18      Of the measures listed above, all items with the exception of (g)
(on collection of national port statistics) build on steps necessary for
the success of the proposed project; the above provisions seek to institu-
tionalize these measures on a long-term basis, beyond the immediate context
of the project. Implementation of the measures under para. 2.17, along with
the other reforms referred to under paras. 2.09 to 2.14 above, should ensure
the minimum essential institutional reform in the Turkish port sector needed
for the success of the proposed project and for streamlining the subsector in
general.
Jurisdiction to Implement Remedial Measures
2.19      All the above measures (para. 2.17) can be implemented without any
change in existing legislation. Under the Turkish administrative structure,
the responsibility for implementing the above steps, with the exception of
items e(ii) and e(iii) (on interministerial planning committee and training
of LI engineers), will be that of the Ministry of Transportation with the
active involvement of both TCDD and DB, over whom this Ministry has super-
visory powers. These agencies have sufficient powers to undertake such
measures subject, in the matter of tariff revision and additional staff for
TCA, to the concurrence of the Ministry of Finance. The training of LI
engineers will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works, with
the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The setting up of the committee
on port planning needs interministerial action, but the responsibility and
initiative for this would be that of the Ministry of Transporation.
Long-term Solution
2.20      As a more fundamental and long-term solution to the fragmentation
of responsibility in the ports sub-sector, the Government is currently con-
sidering a draft law, prepared by the Ministry of Transportation, to estab-
lish a national port authority called the General Directorate of State Ports



- 12 -
Operations (DEVLIM), to operate the ports presently under TCDD and DB as well
as other ports assigned to the Directorate. DEVLIM would be attached to the
Ministry of Transportation, would possess the status of a legal entity, and
would operate through an annexed budget (i.e. a budget annexed to the Govern-
ment's general budget). Under the proposed law, DEVLIM would be responsible
for (i) the operation of all ports on an efficient and least-cost basis, with
the establishment as needed of separate administrative entities to operate
individual ports or groups of ports, such entities being given substantial
administrative and financial autonomy; (ii) setting of port tariffs with
approval of the Ministry of Transportation; and (iii) coordinating port
planning and investments on a national basis. The proposed legislation has
the following positive features: (i) the proposed reform would focus on
ports only and provide a basically port-oriented organization to manage ports;
(ii) it is in harmony with and would foster the interim reforms proposed above
in para. 2.17; and (iii) it sets a single framework in which the main problems
facing Turkish ports can be helped, and it is fair to assume that, as a conse-
quence,-there. would be better coordination in port planning, and investments,
in management of neighboring ports as in Istanbul, in training, procurement
and pooling of spare parts. The draft legislatiLon in its present form, how-
ever, is not an ideal prescription because it does not define the financial
objectives of DEVLIM, or the extent of financiaL autonomy it would have and
would be granted to the regional ports. Though sufficient financial autonomy
is possible while operating with an annexed budget, the prevailing practice in
Turkey with regard to such organizations would suggest that such autonomy may
not be achieved in practice. There are also more fundamental questions like
whether a national authority is the best or the only solution to the problems
faced by the Turkish port sector, and whether other solutions such as regional
authorities would not be more appropriate.
2.21      The above aspects were discussed during negotiations.  The Govern-
ment representatives indicated that the draft legislation is now under review
by an inter-ministerial committee, and that the question of the form of the
new organization is still under discussion. They are considering alternatives
like an SEE-type organization, with autonomous regional units, and would also
consider other solutions before taking a final decision in the matter.
2.22      In view of the above circumstances, and in order to facilitate and
ensure the implementation of long-term organizational reform in the subsector,
Government's agreement was obtained during negotiations on the- following
steps: (i) that Government would furnish to the Bank, before March 31, 1980
for exchange of views, detailed draft proposals for the establishment of a new
ports organization to own and manage public ports in Turkey (hereinafter
referred to as the New Ports Institution), together with drafts of the legal
instruments needed for the establishment of such institution; (ii) that after
the Bank's review, the Government will promptly take all steps for finaliza-
tion of such instruments, including presentation to Parliament; and (iii) that
after the finalization of such documents including Parliamentary approval,
they will cause the New Ports Institution to become fully operational within
36 months, for which Government will prepare within 18 months of the enabling
legislation, and following exchange of views with the Bank, a detailed admin-
istrative, financial and legal implementation plan. The proposed project
includes 12 man-months of technical assistance to assist in preparation of
such implementation plan.



- 13 -
C. Port Capacity and Operational Constraints
Assessment of the Problem
2.23      Port operations in Turkey's main public ports are severely hampered
by: (i) old, obsolete, and inadequate cargo-handling equipment and floating
craft; (ii) shortages in open and covered storage areas, and deficiencies in
other quay facilities; and (iii) relatively untrained port labor and outdated
port management techniques. These constraints contribute in many ways to low
productivity, inefficient handling, high incidence of cargo damage and longer
ship-time in ports.
2.24      The operational availability of existing cargo-handling equipment
in Turkish ports remains very low (less than 50%) due to frequent breakdowns
caused by age (more than half of the equipment is 20 years or older) and to
some extent by the lack of spare parts, partly the result of inadequate
allocation of foreign exchange by Government. Given the age-composition of
ships visiting Turkish ports (with a large share of old ships lacking in
suitable handling gear), such breakdowns considerably slow down port opera-
tions. Further, since 50% of the existing port cranes have a nominal capacity
of only 1-3 tons, and are actually downrated to 1-1/2 ton capacity, they are
often unable to cope with the heavier parcels, thus requiring shifting of
vessels to berths with heavier equipment, which causes further delays in the
cargo-handling process. Lack of modern equipment, supported by trained staff,
also prevents the proper use of palletization and containerization of general
cargo to improve port efficiency and productivity.
2.25      The ports also lack suitable floating crafts, including tugboats
and floating cranes. The existing fleet of tugboats is insufficient in
numbers and inadequate, because of age and low pulling power, to cope with
the increasing numbers and sizes of vessels visiting the Turkish ports and/or
using the Bosphorus and Dardanelles straits (whose pilotage is handled by DB).
The danger and frequency of accidents and oil spills is increasing. The
operational capacity of the existing floating crafts is further limited by the
absence of sufficient slipway facilities for their regular maintenance and
repairs; some of these crafts have to travel about 500 miles to the nearest
slipways in Izmir or Istanbul.
2.26      Turkey has only four floating cranes of up to 60 tons capacity,
all of them about 25 years old. DB has recently ordered a 100-ton floating
crane for its shipyard in Istanbul, in replacement of an old 100-ton crane
presently downrated to about 60 tons. This new crane will be partly avail-
able for general use in the Istanbul area. The country however badly needs
a heavier floating crane, to handle the increasing number of heavy lifts now
using specialized vessels equipped with heavy-lift handling gear, involving
very high freight charges.
2.27      In addition, many ports, especially the two ports of Istanbul, lack
sufficient storage facilities for cargo; and some ports, particularly Mersin
and Iskenderun, lack suitable drafts to handle the increasing size of tankers
and other bulk carriers visiting those ports. Many of the ports are also in
need of substantial rehabilitation of the paving and other civil works com-
ponents of their wharf facilities.



- 14 -
2.28      Only limited facilities are available in Turkey for training of
port labor and operational staff. There are small training units in the
ports of Izmir and Istanbul, and there is a training section in the head-
quarters of DB, but the latter mainly deals with training for other activi-
ties of DB, and gives only limited attention to port training. TCDD has a
training institute in Istanbul for training railway staff but this institute
does not impart any port training as yet. The absence of suitable training
facilities and programs has contributed to deficiencies in the cargo-handling
and storage management at the ports. Cargoes in many ports are stored badly,
and abandoned or damaged cargoes occupy prime storage areas; aisles for equip-
ment and vehicle passage are often used for storage and, with few exceptions,
large portions of the wharves' aprons are stacked with cargo. The ports are
therefore compelled to handle an increasing proportion of general cargo on
a direct delivery basis, but because of blocked aprons, trucks cannot move
freely, thus causing a decline in gang productivity. In addition, incidence
of cargo-damage is high, value losses up to 2% being reported as common.
Indeed, this overall situation reflects the compounding of the capacity
constraints by the deficiencies in the management methods used.
2.29      These various problems faced by the Turkish ports at present result
in low cargo throughput, delays to ships and cargo, and many other extra costs
to the country. The throughput in handling general cargo in Turkish ports is
only about 300-450 tons per ship-day (about 50% of generally accepted stand-
ards). The prevailing conditions have led to excessive ship-waiting times,
causing demurrage payments and congestion surcharges--amounting to an esti-
mated US$10 million in the Istanbul ports alone in 1976, which was a year of
peak general cargo traffic--the high congestion surcharges continuing towards
the end of 1977. Though the recent slowdown in traffic has reduced port
congestion, this problem would, in the absence of the proposed project, recur
as traffic picks up again in the near future.
Proposed Remedies
2.30      To overcome the capacity and operational constraints mentioned
above, the proposed project provides for critically needed replacement of
cargo-handling equipment, floating craft and spare parts, as well as some
essential civil works, including slipways and dredging, and training of port
labor and managerial staff. Since it is presently recognized by the port
agencies and Government that even with the availability of sufficient equip-
ment, training of labor and management staff is critical for improving effi-
ciency and productivity in Turkish ports, the proposed project emphasizes the
training component. Further details of the above-mentioned project elements
are given under Chapter 3.
2.31      To increase storage capacity, Government issued a decree in August
1977 which permits the ports to auction off and remove cargoes which are con-
sidered abandoned in ports or have not been cleared within a period of two
months after import as specified by Customs Law. Its effective implementa-
tion, however, has been delayed for administrative and some legal reasons.
As a result, the storage situation is especially critical in the ports of
Haydarpasa and Salipazari where at times ships cannot come alongside because
of the lack of operational and storage areas to receive their cargo, and in
many cases, for similar reasons, ships can work from one or two hatches only.



- 15 -
To remedy the situation, the Government has issued a new decree in February
1979 which removes the inadequacies of the previous decree. During negotia-
tions, Government agreed on an action program to promptly clear the old
cargoes, with the support of the new decree. Progress in its implementation
will be monitored by the Project Coordination Committee headed by the Under-
secretary or Deputy Undersecretary in the Ministry of Transportation (see
para. 3.17) and Bank will be kept informed on such progress.
2.32      Port management and operations must be improved in order to cope
with the limited facilities.  Forward planning to adequately plan storage,
manpower and equipment deployment must be introduced, and port statistics
which are inadequate have to be improved. Some of these objectives will be
met with the help of the training programs for labor and management included
under the project. Suggestions for improving port statistics are presented
in para. 2.35 in the context of the discussion on port planning.
d. Inadequacy of Port Sub-sector Planning
2.33      Owing to inadequate resources allocated for transport sector planning
in general (see para. 1.09) and poor coordination in whatever studies are being
done (see para. 2.15c), planning in the ports sub-sector has suffered from a
lack of national perspective and inadequate economic and technical analysis of
the investments. The Government has currently under consideration a number of
major port investments for which priorities cannot be established without a
proper national framework. This is particularly true in the Istanbul/Marmara
region which accounts for a large share of shipping traffic and where existing
ports are a major factor in urban congestion. In spite of the urgency attached
by the Government to many of these projects, they are not included in the
Fourth Five-Year Plan recently finalized. This is partly due to Government's
recognition of the need for proper planning studies before deciding on priori-
ties, and partly due to shortage of resources. Government's Fourth Five-Year
Plan mainly concentrates on the rehabilitation of existing facilities as
covered by the proposed Bank-financed project, and on the completion of on-
going infrastructure projects which were started earlier and which appear
generally justified. Priorities for subsequent major new port investments
are yet to be determined.
2.34      In order to assist in preparing a well-coordinated national master
plan for the ports sub-sector, indicating priorities over the next 10-year
and 20-year horizons, the proposed project includes technical assistance for
a port planning effort in three phases:
(i)  Phase I:  Study of national port capacity requirements
during the next five-, ten-, and twenty-year time spans,
in terms of supply, demand and shortages in port capacity
in different regions (already initiated by TCA);
(ii)  Phase II:  Preparation of an optimal national ports master
plan to meet projected needs in different regions, defin-
ing preliminary projects and their priorities, and including
a special study on the location, feasibility and priority



- 16 -
for developing a Marmara regional port: to replace some of
the present port facilities in the congested Istanbul city
(since this is, prima facie, a high-priority potential
project); and
(iii)  Phase III:  Preliminary engineering and design of the
Marmara regional port project (or any other project con-
sidered to be of still higher priority based on Phase
II findings).
2.35      To ensure that major port investment decisions to be taken within
the near future would not conflict with or preempt the results of the proposed
planning studies, agreement was obtained during negotiations that Government
or the other project .agencies will not initiate major new ports investments
outside the present Fourth Plan program, before reviewing with the Bank the
results of the Phase II studies, expected to be completed by mid-1981 (see
also para. 3.03).    This provision would not have any adverse effect on port
capacity since the proposed Fourth Plan programs including the Bank-financed
project would produce sufficient port capacity up to at least 1985. As men-
tioned in para. 2.17, Government's agreements have also been obtained during
negotiations (i) ito establish an interministerial steering committee to coor-
dinate sector planning studies and investments, and (ii) to strengthen TCA
to enable updating of the ports sub-sector plan prepared under the proposed
project. Further, in order to improve the collection and analysis of port
studies which is essential for the rational planning and management of ports
and for monitoring the impact of the proposed project, the following agree-
ments have also been obtained from Government during negotiations:
(a)  that the ports should in future compile operational statistics
on a uniform basis and set up adequate efficiency indicators
in consultation with the Bank to monitor the improvements in
operational efficiency;
(b)  that such organized data collection should start not later
than January 1, 1980, and DB and TCDD should appoint quali-
fied statisticians in their port departments before September
30, 1979 to carry out this work; and
(c)  that the Ministry of Transportation should set up a port
statistics unit within TCA before September 30, 1979, to
compile and analyze port statistics on a national basis,
covering all Turkish ports.
2.36      The implementation of the proposed rehabilitation project cannot
wait until the completion of the proposed ports sector planning study in view
of the expected traffic growth in Turkish ports and the resulting imminent
port congestion from about 1981, in the absence of the project (see Chapter
4). The study is unlikely to prove the proposed investments to be uneconomic
since (a) the project covers critical investments which are essential to
operate existing infrastructure more efficiently, resulting in a high economic
return as shown in Chapter 4, (b) the project focuses on replacement of equip-
ment which can be shifted to new locations if needed, and (c) the additional



- 17 -
port capacity created in the project ports is justified by the projected
traffic, on the reasonable assumption that port traffic distribution in Turkey
will not undergo major shifts in the next 5-7 years.
B. Project Ports
a. General
2.37      The following presents a description of the project ports and and
their main features. The organizational aspects of the project ports have
already been discussed under Section A above dealing with the port sub-sector,
in view of the overlapping of project port issues with those of the port sub-
sector in general.
b. Location and Main Facilities
2.38      The ten public ports to benefit from the proposed rehabilitation
project are: Samsun, Haydarpasa, Derince, Bandirma, Mersin, and Iskenderun--
all under TCDD; and Trabzon, Salipazari, Izmir, and Antalya, under DB. Their
general location and main features are as follows (see maps Nos. IBRD 13702
and IBRD 13703):
Black Sea Region:
Trabzon (administered by DB) - serves as major transit port
to Iran some 600 km to the east.
Samsun (administered by TCDD) is the main Black Sea port, has
major dry bulk handling facilities and serves as domestic
interchange port for ore and coal.
Marmara Sea Region:
Ports of Istanbul - Salipazari on the European and Haydarpasa
on the Asian side are the city's twin ports at a distance
of about three miles across the Bosphorus from one another.
Together they are the largest entrance ports for general
cargo in Turkey.
Salipazari (DB port) is the country's main passenger port and
handles a substantial part of Istanbul's general cargo traffic.
The port's main constraints are its location in the city's
central business district and shortage of cargo storage and
operational areas.
Haydarpasa (TCDD port) - is the country's main general cargo
port; the port is linked by rail westward to Europe and
eastward to Ankara and the interior. The port's expansion
project (not Bank-financed) foresees the completion by 1984
of one new container berth and 4-5 general cargo berths with
facilities for roll-on/roll-off vessels.



- 18 -
Derince (TCDD port) - serves the highly industrialized Izmit
area and handles mainly general cargo.
Bandirma (TCDD port) - is Turkey's newest port. The port is
now in the final phase of completion. Some ongoing limited
cargo-handling operations - mainly dry bulk - are undertaken
directly by importers and exporters using ship-gear. The
port's basic cargo-handling equipment will be provided by the
Bank project.
Aegean Sea Region:
Izmir (DB port) - on the Aegean Sea is Turkey's major export port
for agricultural products. The country's first container ter-
minal, under construction in Izmir, is expected to be completed
by 1984; the terminal will include facilities for roll-on/roll-
off vessels.
Mediterranean Sea Region:
Antalya (DB port) - on the Mediterranean Sea - was completed
in 1973 but is only partially operative due to lack of equipment.
The ongoing limited cargo-handling operations are undertaken
directly by importers and exporters using ship-gear. The port's
basic cargo-handling equipment will be provided by the Bank
project.
Mersin (TCDD port) - is the region's largest port serving also
as a major transit port to Middle East countries. The proposed
project foresees the deepening of the port's approach channel to
its tank,er terminal to accommodate larger tankers.
Iskenderun - (TCDD port) - exports substantial quantities of
chromium and other minerals, and handles general cargo imports
and part of the transit traffic to the Middle East.
2.39      All these ports (except the new ports Bandirma and Antalya) share
the need for immediate rehabilitation of their cargo-handling equipment,
floating craft and ancillary facilities, together with the introduction of
modern port operations and improvement of management techniques. The ports
of Bandirma and Anitalya need basic cargo-handling equipment to operate effec-
tively their new infrastructure.



- 19 -
2.40       A summary of the main technical data of the existing and planned facilities at the project ports is presented in the
following table:
Existing main port facilities                                      --------- Main new facilities ----------
Wharves                                     Storage                      Ongoing
Berth uses                  Cargo          Bulk              construction
Gen-          Liq-                 Cov-          Silo                  description           Civil works as
Total  Berth  Draft   eral   Dry   uid                      ered  Open  grain  Other             (Expected             part of Bank
Port      length  nos.   MLW    cargo  bulk  bulk                      (000) (000) (000)  (000)             completion              Project
m       l/      m     nos.   nos.  nos.   Others            m2    m2  tons   tons                year)               Description
Trabzon        400      3    10          3   Grain   -   Small              20    50    10    28              Minor marine        Paving 60,000 m2,
70    -      5              & ore         vessels                             bulk           works (1982)        dredging
at gen.                                          single                              (100,000 m3),
cargo                                            story                              misc. works.
berth
Samsun          180    1       8         1      -     _                     13    12    34    -                                   Paving 30,000 m2,
770    7    10           7     -      -                                                                           dredging
400*   3   10-12         -      3     -                                                   * Being completed        (12,000 m3),
(1979)               misc. works.
Salipazari    600    4         7         4      -      -                     78    30    -       -                                Paving 36,000 m2
520    4     7-10        -     -      -   Passengers                                                               in, &  120,000 m2
(Plus oil &                                                            outside port + new
coal berths                                                            sheds 6,000 m2,
outside                                                                misc. works.
main port)
Haydarpasa    154    -         3,5       -      -      -   Not used          24    44     70    -         1 Container + 4-5    Paving 6,000 m2,
150    -       4.5       -      -     -   Small vessels                                   gen. cargo berths,   misc. works.
220    2      6.5        -      2     -                                                   including Ro-Ro
1,113     8    10          8      -      -                                                   terminal (1984)
Derince         207    2       8         2      -     _                     15    80       8    -                                 Paving 80,000 m2,
400*   3   10-12         3     -      -                                                   * Being completed    dredging
220*   -      4.5        -      -     _                                                   * Being completed    (5,000  s3)
117    -      4          -      -     -   Small vessels                                      (1979)               misc. works.
Bandirma        833     7   10-12        7      -      _                     12    30    -   Liquid    Sheds and open
493    4    10           -      4     -                                        bulk       storage +
442    3    10           -      3     -                                                   utilities (1979)
414     3    8-10        3      -     -
Izmir        1,060      9    10.5        7      2      -                    18    13    32    _           Containers & gen.    Paving 60,000 m2
150    1       7.5       1     -      -                                                   cargo facilities,    new shed 500 m2.
800    -    3-5          -    Old    -   Small vessels                                    6 berths 1,000 m
port                                                       long, drafts
10-12 m; oper-
ational areas
300,000 m2, incl.
Ro-Ro terminal
(1984)
Antalya          60    -      6          -      -      -   Small vessels    3    30    -         16       Transit shed             Sheds 12,500 m2,
150     1    10          1      -      -                                        Alu-      3,000 m2 (1979)         slipway 100 tons.
165    2      5.5        2      -     -                                         mina
290    2    8-10         2      -     -
170    1    10           -      1     -
Mersin          175     1    10          -      -      -   Passengers       11    40   100       30        2 Heavy lifts &        Paving 145,000 m2,
424    3    10           3     -      -                                         Ores      container berths        dredging
493     3    6-7         -    Ore    -                                          and       totaling 400 m,          (300,000 m3
143    2    10           -    Ore    -                                          coal      drafts 10-12 m          misc, works.
700    2    14           -     -   Crude                                                  (1982)
550    2    10           -   Grain
915     8    6-8         8      -     -
Iskenderun      400    2    10           -   Grain   -                      16    15      20   100                                Paving 135,000 m2,
693    6    10           6      -     -                                         Ores                              dredging
48    1    10           -    Ore    -                                          and                               130,000 m3, slipway
coal                              300 t, misc. works.
1/ With reference to average ship sizes currently visiting these ports; shallow berths not counted.
*   See column "Ongoing construction."



- 20 -
c.  Traffic
2.41      In 1977, the project ports handled the following traffic:
(in '000 tons)
General cargo                      5,710
Dry bulk                           4,328
Liquid bulk                         7,256
Total traffic                     17,294
The above constituted about 85% of all general cargo, 38% of all dry bulk cargo
and 30% of all liquid bulk cargo handled in Turkish ports. General cargo in-
cluded about 570,000. tons of transit imports for Middle East. Two-thirds of
the total general cargo traffic was foreign imports, consisting of machinery
and appliances, steel products, chemicals and fertilizers, and industrial
goods. General cargo exports were mainly agricultural products, textiles and
other industrial products. Dry bulk traffic was equally divided between
coastal trade (ores and coal) and foreign exports (ores and minerals). Liquid
bulk traffic consisted mainly of imports of crude petroleum and some coastal
traffic in crude oil and products.
2.42      During 1977 the ports of Izmir, Haydarpasa and Mersin handled
container traffic of about 400,000 tons (56,000 TEU), of which 240,000 tons
were transit cargo. Container traffic is expected to increase to about
900,000 tons by 11985, on completion of the new container berths in Izmir and
Hlaydarpasa (outside the Bank-financed project). Roll-on/roll-off vessels are
increasingly used in the handling of agricultural exports, and some 200
roll-on/roll-off vessels called at Izmir during 1977.
2.43      About 9,100 ships above 500 dwt called at the project ports during
1977. General cargo vessels averaged about 6,000 dwt, such small vessels
being a feature in the Eastern Mediterranean and Black Sea trade; dry bulk
cargo vessels ranged up to 20,000 dwt, and petroleum tankers were in the range
of 30,000 to 60,000 dwt.
2.44      The volume and composition of traffic varies from port to port,
and therefore the nature and extent of port facilities and services provided
vary accordingly. General cargo handling is more labor-intensive, while dry
bulk cargo handling is semi-mechanized.  Bulk grain is generally handled
through conveyor systems and silos operated by the National Grains Board
(TMO), involving only limited services from the port administration. The
ports also handle some passenger traffic, both coastal and foreign, the main
concentration of this traffic being in Salipazari. Out of a total of about
2,000 vessels which visited Salipazari in 1977, about 850 were passenger
ships, carrying mainly foreign tourists. The pilotage department of the
Salipazari port also handles pilotage of vessels across the Bosphorus and the
Dardanelles Straits.
2.45      The past: trends and future prospects of the traffic growth in the
project ports are discussed in Chapter 4. According to preliminary estimates,
traffic in 1978 was less than in 1977. It is expected that the present depres-
sion in port traffic caused by Turkey's recent economic difficulties will soon



- 21 -
pass, and traffic through Turkey's ports will substantially increase in the
near future. In the important category of general cargo, as distinct from
dry and liquid bulk cargo, traffic will slowly regain the 1977 level by 1981,
rising further in the following years.
III. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. Ports Sub-sector Investment Program
3.01      The investment program for the ports sub-sector included in Govern-
ment's Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83), recently approved by the Parliament,
mainly consist of: (a) all components of the ports rehabilitation project
proposed to be financed by the Bank, and (b) an investment of about 2.8
billion-TL (about US$112 million) to be undertaken through the Ministry of
Public Works for providing new port infrastructure, mainly through completion
of ongoing projects in Mersin, Izmir, Haydarpasa, and a few other ports (see
details given under para. 2.40). The main items under (b) appear generally
justified, based on a rough analysis of the country's port capacity require-
ments. The economic analysis and justification for the proposed project
presented in Chapter 4 takes into account the additional capacity created on
the completion of these ongoing projects.
B. Project Objectives
3.02      The main objectives of the project are to:  (i) substantially
improve the efficiency of port operations in Turkey's main public ports,
particularly in handling general cargo exports and imports, by replacing and
modernizing old and obsolete cargo-handling equipment and floating craft and
improving storage and cargo-handling areas; (ii) avoid a recurrence of severe
congestion in Turkey's main ports experienced in 1975-76, which has only
temporarily eased as a result of Turkey's economic difficulties; (iii) promote
modern cargo-handling methods and port management techniques, mainly through
provision of modern equipment and technical assistance for training; and (iv)
assist in carrying out port sector planning to guide in optimal future invest-
ments in the port sector.
3.03      The project addresses the most important priority of the Turkish
ports sector, viz. rehabilitation of existing equipment in its main public
ports which are also the country's main general cargo ports dealing with
international trade. Some lesser ports are excluded so as to limit the proj-
ect to manageable size; the Government is separately trying to meet their
equipment needs. The project also excludes the requirements for improving
the mechanized grain loading operations in Turkish ports since these needs
are being considered under another Bank project for grain storage and handl-
ing, which is under preparation. The project, along with other investments
being separately undertaken by the Government (see para. 3.01), would provide
sufficient port capacity to meet Turkey's port traffic requirements expected



- 22 -
up to about 1985, especially in handling general cargo. The port sector plan-
ning study under the project will further review future requirements, and will
assist in deciding on future priorities and the choice of future projects.
During negotiations, Government has agreed not to undertake new major port
projects in the public sector (whose aggregate estimated cost shall exceed
US$10 million equivalent in 1979 prices), other than those already referred to
in the Government's Fourth Five-Year Plan, before reviewing with the Bank the
findings of the Phase II of the Port Planning Study, which study is expected
to be completed by mid-1981 (see also para. 2.35).
C. Project Description.
3.04      The proposed project consists of the fcllowing items:
Equipment
(a) Cargo-Handling Equipment (see Annex I): 37 shore cranes, 93
mobile cranes, 110 forklift trucks, 21 tractors, 42 trailers,
two tractors with dozers and four generators--for the ten
project ports.
(b)  Floating Craft:  One 200-ton lifting capacity floating crane
for general use in ports; nine tugboats (one--2500 HP; two--
1500 HP; three--1250 HP; three-1000 HP, all with fire fighting
equipment) and 15 service boats for the. six TCDD project ports
as well as three tugboats of 350 HP for use by LI.
(c) Spare Parts: (i) for three years' operations of new equip-
ment; (ii) to rehabilitate some of the existing equipment;
and (iii) some minor workshop equipment.
(d) Hydrographic Measurement - and Shore-tc,-Ship Communication
Equipment for the ten project ports and. for LI.
Civil Works
(e) Paving and surfacing of about 670,000 m2 of open storage
areas, construction of about 19,000 m2 storage sheds,
minor dredging works totalling about 550,000 m3 in 5 ports,
and general repair and rehabilitation works (see para.
2.40 for more details).
(f) Construction of one slipway of 300 tons lifting capacity
(in Iskenderun) and another slipway of 100 tons (in
Antalya)--including all mechanical equipment for repair
and maintenance of harbor craft.



- 23 -
Technical Assistance
(g) Training
(i) Provision of port training experts and equipment for train-
ing port labor and staff of TCDD and DB ports, at the TCDD
Training Institute in Haydarpasa, Merchant Marine Academy
in Instanbul and other training centres. Such training will
emphasize the use and maintenance of modern cargo-handling
equipment and improved methods of port operations and man-
agement in general, and will include management training
seminars to be organized by UNCTAD.
(ii) Provision of training abroad (120 man-months) for personnel
from the ten project ports and their head offices (in TCDD
and DB), in modern cargo-handling methods, mechanical main-
tenance management, port operations including safety aspects
and pollution control, and general port management; some of
these trained staff would later assist in providing local
training to other staff and workers; and
(iii)  Provision of 60 man-months of fellowships for overseas train-
ing in advanced harbor design and engineering for port
engineers from LI.
(Note: The above training program will be organized and financed
by Government, UNDP (with ILO and UNCTAD participation), and the
Bank; Bank will finance equipment under (i) and fellowships under
( iii ) ).
(h) Management Studies. Consultancy Services for: (i) revaluation of
ports' assets, (ii) a cost accounting study to help establish a
cost-related tariff, and (iii) studies and assistance in making
the proposed New Ports Institution operational (see para. 2.22).
(i) Ports Sub-sector Master Planning. Provision of consultancy assis-
tance for port sector master planning and engineering, comprised
of three phases:
Phase I: Study of national port capacity require-
ments during the next five, ten and twenty year time
spans, in terms of supply, demand and shortages in
port capacity in different regions (already ini-
tiated by TCA);
Phase II: Preparation of an optimal national ports
master plan to meet projected needs in different
regions, defining preliminary projects and their
priorities; this will include a special study on
the location, feasibility and priority for developing
a Marmara regional port to replace some of the



- 24 -
present port facilities in the congested Istanbul
city, taking into account Istanbul's long-term
development needs and strategy (such a regional port
being an obvious high-priority potential project for
Turkey); and
Phase III: Preliminary engineering and design of
the Marmara regional port project (or any other
project considered to be of still higher priority
based on Phase II findings).
3.05      The project components have been prepared on the basis of detailed
analysis of existing capacity constraints and immediate future requirements,
on a port by port basis. The new equipment will be suitable for modern cargo-
handling techniques and sufficient in numbers to permit the ports to dispose
of most of their old, obsolete and run-down equipment and, at the same time,
provide the basis to increase cargo-handling prodluctivity, mainly through
increased unitization of cargoes. Of the new equipment, 8 shore cranes, 18
mobile cranes, and 22 forklift trucks are allocated to the new ports of
Antalya and Bandirma to provide essential equipment to operate these ports
efficiently. Similarly, two tugboats of 1,000 HI? are allocated for the new
port of Bandirma.
3.06      In addition to the floating craft proviLded under the project, DB
has contracted with a foreign supplier to purchase ten tugboat engines of
2,500 HP, at a cost of about US$5 million, for use in tugboats already built
in Turkey; though this item is not included under the present project, it is
an essential complementary investment for the project. Government's under-
taking has been obtained to procure these engines before December 1980.
3.07      Apart from the technical assistance inc:luded under the project, the
UNDP is financing the services of a procurement expert to assist the project
agencies in drawing up specification and tender documents for procurement
of equipment; an expert acceptable to the Government and the Bank has been
nominated by UNDP, and his appointment is expected shortly (see para. 3.21).
D. Cost Estimates
3.08      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$155.6 million.
The foreign exchange component is US$75.0 million. (about 48 percent). Cost
estimates have been reviewed and agreed upon with the representatives of the
Turkish Government during negotiations. Price contingencies have been esti-
mated in accordance with the project execution program. A summary of the cost
estimates is given on page 25 (see Annex 1 for detailed cost estimates). In
addition to the above project costs, UNDP has agreed to contribute US$0.93
million in foreign exchange for financing part of the training program, with
Government contributing the corresponding local currency costs (estimated at
US$0.9 million equ-ivalent).



- 25 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local      Foreign                    Local      Foreign                   exchange
currency   exchange    Total          currency   exchange    Total         component
Item                - - - - TL (000,000)  - - - -          - - - - - US$ (000) - - - - - 
Equipment
Cargo handling                 246.3        907.5    1,153.8         9,850      36,300      46,150          80
Spare parts                    113.8        108.3       120.0          550       4,330        4,880         90
Floating craft                  355.0       282.5       637.5       14,200      11,300      25,500          45
Spare parts                       1.1        10.1        11.3           45         405          450         90
Hydrographic                      2.7        24.0        26.7          110          960       1,0i0         90
Subtotal                   618.9    1,332.4    1,951.3          24,755      53,295      78,050          70
Works
Civil works                    257.0         89.5       :146.5      10,280       3,580      13,860          35
Dredging                         29.5        20.8        50.3        1,180          830       2,010         40
Slipway                          46.5        71.0       117.5        1,860       2,840        4,700         60
Subtotal                   333.0       181.3       514.3        13,320       7,250      20,570          35
Technical assistance
Training                          1.7        10.8        12.5            70        430          500 1/      85
Management studies                3.8         5.2         9.0          150          210         360         60
Port planning study               4.0        23.5        27.5          160          940       1,100         85
Subtotal                     9.5        39.5        49.0           380       1,580       1,960          80
Subtotal Project         961.4    1,553.1    2,514.5         38,455       62,125    100,580          60
Contingencies
Physical:  2/
Works                         66.8         36.3       103.1        2,670       1,450       4,120          35
Price:  3/
Equipment and spares         215.0        170.5       385.5        8,600       6,820      15,420          45
Floating craft &spares       364.0         58.2       422.2       14,560       2,326      16,886          15
Hydrographic                    2.3         3.7         6.0           92         147          239         60
Works                        403.3         46.9       450.2       16,131        ,875      18,006          10
Technical assistance           2.3          6.4         8.7           92         257          349         75
Subtotal                 1,053.6       321.9    1,375.5         42,145      12,875      55,020          25
TOTAL PROJECT       2,015.0    1,875.0    3,890.0          80,600      75,000    155,600 1/        50
1/ In addition, UNDP is expected to provide training, costing US$0.93 million in foreign exchange, with
Government financing local counterpart costs of about US$0.9 million equivalent.
2/ Physical contingencies: 20% for the items of civil works, dredging and slipways.
3/ For calculating price contingencies, the following expected price increases for different
components, expressed as percent per annum, were used:
1979    1980    1981    1982
Equipment:  Local component                              40        30       20       10
Foreign component                            7.5       7        7        7
Civil works:  Local component                            40        30       20       10
Foreign component                          7.5       7        7        7.
Technical assistance:  Local component                   15        10       10       10
Foreign component                7.5       7        7        7
Source: Mission estimates
March 1979



- 26 -
3.09      Cost estimates for equipment are based on prices obtained from
foreign manufacturers, and reflect January 1979 prices. Estimates for over-
seas training, consultants' services and technical assistance are based on
Bank experience and average costs of courses offered by relevant institutions.
The Bank-financed part of the training program includes 60 man-months of over-
seas training, and cost of training aids and equipment for use in training
centers. Consultancy services total 160 man-months of experts, estimated at
an overall cost, including travel and overheads, of about US$7,000 per man-
month. Cost estimates for civil works also reflect January 1979 prices; these
are based on prices obtained from LI, on the basis of an updating of previous
contracts for similar works. The local currency costs include local taxes.
Imported equipment is based on CIF landed costs, excluding Turkish customs
duties.  Government representatives confirmed during negotiations that float-
ing craft and related equipment proposed under the project will be exempt from
customs duty under existing Government rules; they also indicated Government's
intention to exempt all the proposed project imports from import duty (such
duty estimated at about US$19 million equivalent), for which action is now
under way. If such exemption is not granted, it will be Government's respon-
sibility to contribute the corresponding shortfa-Ll in project financing (see
para. 3.11).
3.10      Total project cost includes provision i^or overall contingencies of
about 54.0 percent on base costs, including 4.0 percent for physical contin-
gencies (on the limited civil works in the project) and 50.0 percent for price
escalation. The relatively high local inflation compared to foreign inflation
expected during the period of project implementation may lead to exchange rate
adjustments, but the extent and timing of such adjustments are not predictable
at this time. Therefore, the estimated project costs are based on the current
exchange rate of US$1 = TL 25.00. The effect of exchange rate changes on
contingencies would be to reduce the local price contingencies expressed in
US$; conversely, the foreign price contingencies expressed in TL would
be increased.
E. Financing Plan
3.11      The proposed Bank loan is US$75.0 million, equivalent to the total
foreign exchange component of the project. The Blank loan will finance: (a)
100% of the foreign currency requirements for theb procurement/construction of
(i) all the proposed cargo-handling equipment, (i.i) hydrographic and communi-
cation equipment, (iii) propulsion, navigation and auxiliary equipment for the
proposed floating craft (the hulls for the floating craft will be built in DB
shipyards under local financing), (iv) the 300-ton slipway in Iskenderun to be
contracted under ICB, and (v) foreign fellowships for LI engineers included
under technical assistance; and (b) the estimated. direct foreign expenditure
on the remaining technical assistance and the estimated indirect foreign
expenditure on the remaining civil works (see also para. 3.29). Agreement
has been obtained during negotiations that Government will meet the local
costs of the project (US$80.6 million equivalent) as also any cost overruns in
the future. Government assistance is necessary since the two organizations
with their annual overall deficits (para 5.04) have no cash resources for
investment.



- 27 -
3.12      In view of the divided responsibility for the project ports and
the involvement of other beneficiaries like TCA and LI which are Government
departments (and not independent financial entities), the borrower for the
Bank's loan will be the Government, with subsidiary loan agreements between
the Government and the two agencies, TCDD and DB. The Bank will have separate
project agreements with TCDD and DB.
3.13      The Bank loan will be on standard Bank terms for a period of 17
years including a grace period of four years. An amount of US$71.6 million
out of the Bank loan will be re-lent to TCDD (US$50.8 million) and DB (US$20.8
million) through subsidiary loan agreements, on the same terms, for meeting
the expenditure pertaining to items of the project applicable to their respec-
tive ports; signing such subsidiary loan agreements will be a condition of
loan effectiveness, and this has been agreed upon during negotiations. The
remainder (US$3.4 million) will finance technical assistance for port sector
planning and training (US$1.6 million) and equipment for the LI (US$1.8 mil-
lion). Since the amounts re-lent to TCDD and DB could have been directly lent
by the Bank to these agencies (which are independent financial entities) on
standard Bank terms, and since the on-lending through Government is resorted
to only for the convenience of coordination of loan administration involving
three main beneficiaries (TCDD, DB and Government covering TCA and LI), on-
lending terms would be the same as the Bank's lending terms, with DB and TCDD
bearing the foreign exchange risks associated with their respective shares of
the loan. (Annual inflation rates in Turkey during the past three years -
1976, 1977 and 1978 were, respectively: 21 percent, 35 percent and 50 percent.
The estimated future inflation rates for 1979, 1980 and 1981 are: 40 percent,
30 percent and 20 percent. The current official commercial bank lending rate
in Turkey for medium- and long-term lending is about 16 percent.)
3.14      The Government has negotiated with UNDP to meet part of the expendi-
ture on port training, totalling US$0.93 million in foreign exchange. UNDP
is expected to provide such finance. During negotiations Government agreed to
complete before January 1, 1980, all arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
carrying out such training programs.
F. Project Execution, Supervision and Reporting
3.15      Project implementation will be the responsibility of the respective
beneficiaries of the loan, viz. TCDD, DB, TCA and LI, and will be coordinated
by the Ministry of Transportation. TCDD and DB will implement the project
components consisting of floating craft, cargo-handling and hydrographic and
communications equipment, civil works, and technical assistance for training
and consultancy services, while TCA will administer the technical assistance
component for port sector planning. LI will assist the project agencies in
implementing civil works, slipways and dredging, and also assist in procuring
the tugs and hydrographic equipment included in the project for its own use.
3.16      To coordinate project implementation in general, and to facilitate
pooling of equipment procurement with a view to ensuring standardization and



- 28 -
economy, the following arrangements, based on the particular strengths of each
project agency, have been agreed upon during negotiations:
(!) Equipment. Procurement of equipment and floating craft
will be divided between DB and TCDD iri such a way that, to
the extent feasible, one agency would buy one type of
equipment for both agencies, while the other would buy all
units of another type. DB will undertake to procure all
floating craft  equipment, generator s,ets, hydrographic and
communications equipment, and related spare parts as well as
spare parts for rehabilitating equipment in DB ports; after
procurement, the equipment destined for use in TCDD-operated
ports would be transferred by DB to TCDD, with the hydro-
graphic equipment for use by LI being transferred to LI.
Similarly, all mobile cranes, shore cranes, tractors, forklift
trucks, trailers, slipway equipment and related spare parts
as well as spare parts for rehabilitation of existing equip-
ment in TCDD ports would be procured by TCDD, with that
portion scheduled for use in DB-operated ports transferred
by TCDD to DB. Purchase contracts with suppliers will be
arranged in such a way that the payments will be made by the
final user (TCDD or DB) of the equipment. To ensure appro-
priate standardization, specifications for the above equipment
would be jointly agreed between TCDD and DB, and prepared with
the assistance of an already established joint DB and TCDD
technical working group.  For floating craft, DB will, under
separate contractual arrangements with. TCDD and LI, con-
struct the necessary hulls (not financed by Bank) in its
shipyards and outfit them with the imported engines and
machinery. (DB shipyards have the necessary capability to
do this work; Bank will review specifications and construc-
tion program for whole crafts while approving engine specif-
ications.) TCDD and DB have already signed a protocol between
them formalizing such coordinated procurement for the project.
(b)  Civil Works.  The civil works component will be implemented
as follows: (i) slipways, maintenance, paving, and other
port rehabilitation activities will be carried out by TCDD
and DB for their respective ports with the assistance of LI
as needed in preparation of specifications and tender docu-
ments; both LI and DB will assist in preparing design for the
slipway under TCDD; and (ii) dredging will be carried out by
LI on force account following the usual Government practice,
but wit-h overall responsibility for its execution remaining
with TCDD and DB.
(c) Technical Assistance. Technical assistance will be imple-
mented by the respective agencies and coordinated by Ministry
of Transportation through TCA. Such coordination is essential
in view of the need to conduct a common program (as for train-
ing) and to supervise consultancy services (e.g., costing and
procurement) common to both DB and TCDD.



- 29 -
3.17      During negotiations, Government has also agreed on establishing the
following coordination machinery: responsibility for overall project coor-
dination, with particular emphasis on common specification, pooling procure-
ment, organizing technical assistance and monitoring project progress, is to
rest with a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be established by the
Ministry of Transportation and chaired by the Undersecretary or Deputy Under-
secretary of the Ministry of Transportation. The PCC will be made up of
at least one senior representative of the responsible Government agencies
directly involved in project implementation (TCDD, DB, TCA and LI), whose
representation would be at least at the level of Deputy General Director.
The PCC will meet at least once every 3 months, or whenever critical matters
affecting project implementation require high-level attention--as determined
by the PCC Chairman. DB, TCDD, and TCA will submit regular project progress
reports on their respective parts to the Ministry of Transportation for use
by PCC. To assist PCC in its work, Government will set up three technical
working groups dealing with (i) equipment procurement, (ii) civil works design
and implementation and (iii) training and management studies, with experts
drawn from the beneficiaries' organizations and outside; the work of these
subcommittees will be coordinated by the PCC Secretary. The TCA representa-
tive will serve as Secretary of the PCC; and TCA, which played an active role
in coordinating project preparation, will serve as the Secretariat of the PCC.
The role of TCA in project coordination would cover: (a) monitoring overall
project progress with a view to identifying implementation problems to be
brought to the attention of the Ministry of Transportation and other Govern-
ment agencies, and (b) coordinating all technical assistance components in
the project. To do this work effectively, Government has agreed to strengthen
TCA by the addition of a training coordinator, a port engineer and necessary
supporting staff. An outline of the main functions of PCC and the principal
qualifications for additional staff for TCA have been discussed and agreed
during negotiations. Government has also agreed during negotiations to
establish the PCC and three working groups before June 30, 1979 and to appoint
the additional staff for TCA before August 31, 1979.
3.18      In connection with technical assistance, Government's agreement has
been obtained on the following: (a) that the qualifications of consultants
engaged for the proposed technical assistance should be acceptable to the
Bank, (b) that copies of the various consulting studies and of the three
phases of the port sector study should be promptly given to Bank followed by
discussions with Bank on the action proposed to be taken thereon, (c) that TCA
will implement the Phases I & II of the port sector planning study with the
assistance of suitable consultants, the main consultancy inputs under each
phase being provided through a firm of consultants in order to ensure better
coordination and quality-control, (d) that Phase III of the study will be
conducted by a consultancy firm or by other arrangements acceptable to the
Bank, which will be decided on completion of Phase II, and (e) that Government
will set up an interministerial steering committee on port sector planning,
before August 31, 1979, consisting of the Ministry of Transportation, Ministry
of Public Works, SPO and other related agencies including the Istanbul Master
Plan Bureau and the Istanbul Municipality, for the purposes of: coordinating
supply of information to the implementing agency and its consultants, review-
ing and commenting on the draft reports of the study, and providing general
guidance for the study. During negotiations, DB and TCDD have agreed to



- 30 -
appoint a training specialist each, in their head offices, before January 1,
1980, to assist in coordinating the port training programs under the project
and to ensure continuity of the training program after project completion.
Further, during negotiations, an understanding has been reached on an action
plan covering the terms of reference, implementation steps and timetable for
the various studies (port sector planning and management studies) included
under the project.
3.19      TCDD, DB and TCA will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
covering their respective components, which reports shall include information
on equipment procurement, progress of civil works and the status of the train-
ing and other consultancy services plus port operational and financial data,
port efficiency indicators and information on any new investments. The format
of the progress reports has been agreed during negotiations.
3.20      Government has agreed during negotiations to issue promptly import
licenses for project items where necessary.
3.21      As part of the implementation arrangements, a technical procurement
working group has started functioning. Government has agreed during negotiat-
ions to appoint before June 30, 1979 an equipment procurement specialist whose
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment shall be acceptable to
the Bank (see para. 3.07). A critical path program for project implementation
was discussed and reviewed with Government, TCDD, DB and LI during negotiations.
The implementation schedule is as follows:
Equipment and Floating Craft
Preparation of specification and
tender documents for cargo-handling
equipment (including Bank review)    -  April 79 - November 79
Tendering, evaluation, award             -  December 79 - April 80
Manufacture and supply                   -  May 80   December 81
Preparation of specifications for
floating craft, and tender documents
for their propulsion, navigation and
auxiliary equipment                    -  July 79 - December 79
Tendering, evaluation, award for
floating craft equipment               -  January 80 - June 80
Manufacture and supply                   -  July 80 - June 82
Civil Works
Preparation of specifications and
tender documents: paving, rehab-
ilitation works, dredging, sheds
(including Bank review)                -  June 79 - November 79
Tendering, evaluation, award             -  December 79 - March 80
Implementation - asphalt, sheds,
repairs                                -  April 80 - December 81
Implementation - dredging                -  April 80 - December 82
Preparation of specifications and
tender documents: slipway (includ-
ing mechanical equipment) (includ-
ing Bank review)                       -  October 79 - September 80



- 31 -
Prequalification of slipway
contractors                            - March 80 - September 80
Tendering, evaluation, award            -  October 80 - January 81
Construction and supply                 -  February 81 - December 82
Technical Assistance
Consultants for training                -  to be recruited from January 80
Consultants for preparation of
implementation plan for the New
Ports Institution                      -  (soon after the passing of enabling
legislation)
Consultants for cost accounts study
and asset revaluation                  -  to be recruited by August 31, 1979
Consultants for procurement
assistance                             -  to be recruited by June 1979
Consultants for Port Sector master
planning                               -  to be recruited by August 31, 1979
Duration of Port Sector master
planning study                         -  Phase I   - National port require-
ments--macrostudy:* to
July 80
Phase II  - Preparation of Master
Plan for ports, including
special study on Istanbul/
Marmara regional ports:
on choice of new port
projects. September 80 -
July 81
Phase III - Preliminary engineering
and feasibility of the
new port project.
December 81 to July 82
3.22      The project is expected to be completed by December 82 and the loan
will be closed on June 30, 1983.
3.23      During project implementation, TCA, with the assistance of DB, TCDD
and LI will generate the information needed to produce the Project Completion
Report (PCR) which report will be submitted to the Bank not later than 6
months after loan closing date. This has been agreed upon during negotiations.
G. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.24      During negotiations, the following procurement procedures (paras.
3.25 to 3.28) have been agreed upon.
*    Has been started by TCA.



- 32 -
3.25      All contracts for equipment financed by the Bank will be tendered on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines, with the exception that local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank and in accordance with Bank guidelines will be used for equipment
contracts up to US$25,000, totalling up to US$1.0 million for the whole proj-
ect since such items are small and internationa:L competitive bidding for them
would be too cumbersome. The equipment will be tendered on separate packages
for (i) shore cranes, (ii) mobile cranes, (iii) forklift trucks, (iv) tractors,
(v) trailers, (vi) tractors with dozers, (vii) generator sets, (viii) floating
craft engines and equipment, (ix) hydrographica:L measurement equipment, and
(x) communication equipment. Contracts for each type of equipment will be
grouped in large enough groups to attract foreign suppliers and to ensure
standardization of the equipment concerned.
3.26      In civil works, contracts for the large 300-ton slipway civil works
and related mechanical equipment will be tendered in one contract (with a
possible separate contract for the heavy lift crane--to standardize the equip-
ment) on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines.
3.27      Other civil works (including paving, general rehabilitation work,
transit sheds, and the small slipway at Antalya), costing a total of US$17.7
million equivalent (excluding dredging and contingencies), and involving an
indirect foreign exchange component of about US$>4.7 million, will be tendered
according to local competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank, since: (i)
these works are spread over 10 different ports and are non-continuous because
of ongoing port operations; (ii) they are not hcmogeneous items to be pooled
together with advantage under the same contract; (iii) the items are labor-
intensive and have a large percentage of local costs; and (iv) the local
contracting industry is well-developed in Turkey--the scope for any foreign
contractor trying for and winning these bids is limited. The limited dredging
(550,000 m3 in 5 ports involving a total cost of US$2.0 million (excluding
contingencies) and an indirect foreign exchange cost of US$0.8 million) will
be carried out on force account by the Public Works Department using their own
equipment. Disbursements for dredging will be made against certificates of
expenditure; all documentation related to such expenditures will be retained
by DB, TCDD and LI for review by the Bank.
3.28      In evaluating international bids for equipment contracts, domestic
manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF landed
price of competing imports or the prevailing level of customs duties, which-
ever is lower.
Disbursement
3.29      Disbursements from the loan account will be on the following basis,
which has been agreed upon during negotiations (para. 3.11):
(a) For equipment including equipment for floating craft--100% of
the foreign expenditures if directly imported, 100% of local
expendil:ures ex-factory if manufactured locally, and 60% of
local expenditures for imported items procured locally;



- 33 -
(b) For 300 T capacity slipway in Iskenderun--100% of foreign
expenditure;
(c) 32% of the total cost of the civil works excluding the 300 T
capacity slipway; and
(d) For technical assistance--100% of foreign expenditure for
overseas training and 80% of total cost for other items.
3.30      Since replacement of all aged equipment has not been provided for in
the project, any surplus loan amounts on completion of the project will not be
cancelled, but be utilized for acquiring additional cargo-handling equipment--
details of which will be discussed with Government during project implementa-
tion.
3.31      The tentative schedule of disbursement of the Bank loan is given
below; this has been discussed with Government representatives during negotia-
tions:
IBRD Fiscal Years                              Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarters                  Amount            at end of Quarter
_______----- US$ (000)        
FY 1980
September 30, 1979                    -                     _
December 31, 1979                    550                   550
March 31, 1980                       650                 1,200
June 30, 1980                      9,000               10,200
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                11,100               21,300
December 31, 1980                  9,200               30,500
March 31, 1981                     8,800                39,300
June 30, 1981                      8,500               47,800
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                 8,900               56,700
December 31, 1981                  8,700               65,400
March 31, 1982                     4,800                70,20.0
June 30, 1982                      2,500               72,700
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                 1,300               74,000
December 31, 1982                    500                74,500
March 31, 1983                       300                74,800
June 30, 1983                        200               75,000
H. Retroactive Financing
3.32      Expenditure in procuring urgently needed spare parts for rehabilitat-
ing existing port equipment incurred after April 1, 1979, up to an aggregate
amount of US$500,000, will be payable retroactively.



- 34 -
I. Environmental Impact
3.33      Existing environment is likely to be irmproved by the project.  The
new powerful tugboats are provided with fire-fighting equipment and will serve
to prevent or reduce the danger of marine accidents and oil spills.
3.34      The operational training program will i.nclude a section on pollution
prevention, in order to increase the awareness of' the port management of the
importance and methods of pollution prevention.
J. Impact on Employment
3.35      Some 600 skilled and unskilled laborers will be required temporarily
during the implementation of civil works. Traini.ng will improve skills and
enhance job satisfaction of some 2,700 port laborers and stevedores in both
DB and TCDD ports. There will be no adverse impact on employment because of
higher level of mechanization of port operations, since the increased produc-
tivity will be more than matched by the increased traffic expected by the time
the project is completed.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic Analysis and Projections
General
4.01      Since the proposed project is mainly addressed to rehabilitating
general cargo port facilities in Turkey, the main, focus of the traffic
analysis and the project's economic evaluation is on the.general cargo traffic
and related facilities. The project ports handled about 85% of the general
cargo traffic handled through all Turkish ports in 1977, while corresponding
shares for dry bulk and liquid bulk traffic were 38% and 30% respectively.
Recent Trends and Future Prospects
4.02      Turkey witnessed impressive economic growth during 1970-76 with its
GDP in real terms growing at an average annual rate of 7.5% during the period;
this growth has been accompanied by considerable increase both in its imports
and exports, particularly in its general cargo imports and bulk cargo exports.
However, under the impact of Turkey's recent and continuing foreign exchange
crisis, this growth trend in imports came to a halt in 1978, followed by a
sharp decline in imports during 1978. These national trends are reflected in
the traffic tonnages handled by the project ports during 1970-77 (see table
in para. 4.05). Total foreign imports and exports handled by the project
ports increased from 8.3 million tons in 1970 to 11.2 million tons in 1977,



- 35 -
but declined to about 10 million tons in 1978 due to a sudden fall in imports
(traffic figures for 1978 are preliminary estimates). Export traffic showed
sustained growth during this period, both in dry cargo (ores) and, to a
smaller extent, in general cargo (fruits and nuts, tobacco and manufactured
goods). In the major cargo group of general cargo, foreign import and export
traffic handled by these ports (excluding transit traffic) increased from 3.1
million tons in 1970 to 5.2 million tons in 1976 (9% annual growth), though
it declined to 4.8 million tons in 1977, and to 4.1 million tons in 1978, due
to the fall in imports.  Since most of the imports are essential inputs for
Turkish industry and agriculture, the decline in import traffic is expected to
be only temporary, reflecting the present foreign exchange crisis in Turkey,
and it is envisaged that traffic growth will pick up again in the near future.
4.03       Turkey's recent economic problems make future projections difficult.
It is, however, clear that it will be some time before Turkey restores the
same foreign import traffic level which it reached in 1977. Bank's latest
economic projections for Turkey assume that the sharp decline in imports in
1978 (about 20% in value terms) would be followed by a gradual slow growth of
imports during 1979-85, which will restore the 1977 import volume by around
1981. Bank projections further assume an average annual growth in exports, in
constant prices, of about 12% p.a. during 1979-83.
Traffic Projections, 1979-85
4.04       The traffic projections presented in this report are based on growth
assumptions for different commodity groups used in Bank's recent projections
for Turkey's foreign trade for the period 1979-85. The methodology followed
has been to prepare uniform commodity classification of foreign import/export
traffic handled through the project ports in 1977 and to apply the growth
factors for each commodity group as adopted in Bank's overall foreign trade
projections. The projections were extended to 1985 using the same growth
factors as used for 1980-83. Following completion of new port facilities
in Iran and other Persian Gulf countries, the foreign transit traffic through
Turkish ports is expected to decline in future, stabilizing at about 0.4 mil-
lion from 1981 onwards. In coastal traffic (domestic) handled at the project
ports, only a marginal growth rate, following recent trends, is assumed for
general cargo and about 8% annual growth is assumed for dry bulk cargo from
the level reached in 1978. Coastal liquid cargo traffic (mainly petroleum
traffic) is also assumed to grow at a marginal rate from the traffic level
reached in 1978; it is possible that this traffic may grow faster than pro-
jected; however, existing port facilities would be able to cope with such
increased traffic. Portwise distribution of traffic is assumed to follow the
pattern observed in 1977, with some allowance for a limited traffic diversion
from Istanbul (Haydarpasa) to the underutilized Bandirma port from 1981
onwards.
4.05       The results of the above estimates are summarized below for all
project ports together, for selected years:



- 36 -
Summary of Traffic Growth of the ten Project Ports
Past and Projected
(IN '000 TONS)
1970   1976   1977   1978-a 1979   1981   1985
A.   General Cargo
Imports                     2195   4147   3685   2768   2905   3386   4600
Exports                      922   1039   1161   1330   1474   1794   2650
Transit                        0    555    572    460    411    370    370
Coastal                      288    257    292    292    295    300    325
Total                       3405   5998   5710   4850   5085   5850   7945
B.   Dry Bulk
Imports                      531    463    397    360    375    430    585
Exports                      546   1350   1847   2205   2582   3180   4655
Coastal                     1678   1916   2084   1775   1958   2340   3200
Total                       2755   3729   4328   4340   4915   5950   8440
C.   Liquid Bulk
Imports                     4111   4083   4139   3310   3476   4060   5520
Coastal                     1646   1689   1617   1650   1679   1740   1875
Total                       5757   5772   5756   4960   5155   5800   7395
D.   Total - All Traffic        11917  15499  15794  14150  15155  17600  23780
E.   Total - Dry Cargo           6160   9727  10038   9190  10000  11800  16385
F.   Total - Foreign Traffic
(excluding transit)         8305  11082  11229   9973  10812  12850  18010
/a   Preliminary estimates.
4.06      Overall, the above figures indicate the following main features:
(a) total port traffic in project ports, which was 15.8 million tons in 1977
and about 14.2 mi:Llion tons in 1978, would increase to about 17.6 million tons
in 1981 and 23.8 million tons in 1985 (i.e. average annual growth of about 5%
during 1977-85), the main factors for this growth being increased dry bulk
and general cargo traffic; (b) dry bulk cargo traffic is expected to increase
steadily from 4.3 million tons in 1977 to 8.4 million tons in 1985, mainly
because of increase in bulk cargo exports (foodgrains and ores), increase in
coastal traffic (coal and ores) and some increase in import of fertilizer raw
materials; and (c) in the important group of general cargo which is of main
concern for the present project, traffic would gradually increase from 1979,
regaining the peak level traffic of 1977 (5.7 million tons) by about 1981, and
further rising to about 7.9 million tons by 1985. This represents about 4%
annual increase during 1977-85, or 8% annual increase during 1981-85, compared
to about 10% annual growth observed during 1970-76.



- 37 -
4.07      The foregoing traffic estimates which are taken to represent a
reasonable middle path, given the continuing uncertainties about the rate of
Turkish economic growth, have been used in estimating the economic return
from the project investments. The sensitivity analysis conducted (see para.
4.18) includes an extreme case where the total general cargo traffic would
increase only by about half the rate of growth assumed in the above estimates.
Traffic projections beyond 1985 have not been attempted since the project
facilities will be fully utilized by the 1985 traffic level.
B. Project Benefits
General
4.08      Much of the cargo-handling equipment and floating crafts presently
in use in the project ports are too old and obsolete to handle ships and cargo
efficiently and need immediate replacement for ensuring optimal operations.
The productivity rates in cargo-handling in these ports have recently dete-
riorated because of the worsening condition of the equipment, and will dete-
riorate further in the absence of project. Two of the main benefits from the
present project would, therefore, be: (a) in preventing further decline in
cargo-handling productivity; and (b) in improving productivity from its pres-
ent low level. Both these factors will lead to savings in ships' time spent
in these ports covering service-time and to some extent waiting-time; most
of these benefits would be in handling general cargo, but to some extent
dry bulk cargo would also benefit since the project includes some equipment
for dry bulk-handling as well. The other major benefits from the project
include - (c) reduction in the high level of cargo damage in handling and
storing general cargo presently experienced in these ports, since the new
equipment and new methods of handling and better training would all contribute
to better cargo-handling management; (d) reduced ship-waiting time and less
risk of accidents due to the use of more and larger tugboats for pilotage of
ships in and out of ports; (e) some limited freight savings due to dredging
which will help to avoid underloading of ships carrying bulk cargo in some
ports; (f) freight savings from the use of the 200-ton floating crane for
heavy lifts which will avoid the need to engage special ships to carry large
heavy lifts; (g) savings from better upkeep and reduced travel time for
servicing of harbor floating crafts, due to the use of the new slipways for
harbor craft repairs; and (h) the general benefits in facilitating the growth
of Turkish exports through the provision of adequate port facilities. Only
some of these benefits have been quantified to estimate the economic return
from the project.
4.09      The main approach in estimating project benefits has been to compare
the two situations, namely, with the project and without project, and to esti-
mate the difference in economic costs between the two situations. In this
analysis, the investment projects outside of the present project, which are
currently under way in some of the project ports (mainly for adding new
berths in Izmir, Mersin, Samsun and Haydarpasa) are treated, on their comple-
tion, as part of the "without project" situation. Thus only the incremental



- 38 -
benefits generated by the Bank project are considered, of which only the share
accruing to Turkey are included in project return calculations. The analysis
primarily focuses on the whole Bank project though spread over many ports as
one entity, and estimates costs, benefits and economic return for the whole
investment package; however, these estimates are built up on a port by port
basis to the extent possible, and separate rates of return for the investments
in individual ports have also been estimated to check whether sub-optimal
investments at the port level are involved.
Sources and Assessment of Benefits
4.10      The following discusses the main sources of benefits quantified for
the analysis and the main data and assumptions used in estimating the same:
(a) Savings in ship-service time and ship-waiting time due to improved
productivity in handling general cargo. The weighted average pro-
ductivity in handling general cargo in all project ports during
1977 is estimated at a low 380 tons per ship-day, productivity
having generally declined in the recent: past. The analysis assumes
that the 1977 level of output will decLine by at least 25% by 1982,
since much of the present equipment will have to be scrapped in the
near future, this decline being slow initially due to the lower
traffic level needing lesser use of the older equipment. With the
project, under which substantial new equipment will be available
from 1982, handling rate is assumed to be restored to the 1977 level
in 1982, followed by a 20% increase by 1984 due to the new equip-
ment, training and greater palletization of cargo. On the above
assumptions, and using portwise data, expected productivity levels
in each port in terms of average tonnage per ship-day were esti-
mated. These productivity rates and the general cargo traffic
estimates discussed under Section A (excluding container traffic
projected separately) have been used in estimating the service-time,
berth-occupancy and waiting-time in the two situations, viz. with
and without project, for each port during the next 10 years. The
ship-waiting time was estimated using (lueueing tables applicable to
similar port situations. The berth-occupancy levels in the without
project situation take into account the new general cargo berths
expected to be added in some ports outside the present project.
Savings in ship-service time and ship-waiting time estimated as
above for each port were evaluated in dollar terms using a ship-day
cost of US$4,500 per ship-day applicabl]e to the average size of
ships in use (6000-7000 dwt). Turkey's share in these savings was
estimated as discussed under para 4.11 below. The resulting project
benefits for the total project are summarized under para. 4.13.
Under one of the sensitivity analyses conducted, the above exercise
was repeated with a different set of productivity assumptions as an
extreme case, viz. using only 15% decline in productivity without
project, and only 10% increase in productivity with the project, in
combination with a much lower growth in general cargo traffic than
used in the above basic exercise (see para. 4.18).



- 39 -
(b) Ship-time savings due to improved productivity in handling dry bulk
cargo. Some of the equipment included in the project (mainly
crawlers, grab cranes, etc.) are for improving the manual loading/
unloading operations in dry bulk cargo (excluding grain and mainly
consisting of ores and coal), in some ports (Iskenderun, Antalya,
Bandirma, Samsun and to some extent in Trabzon). Current produc-
tivity levels in these ports range around 600-700 t/ship-day which
is assumed to rise to 800-900 t/ship-day with the project. The
resulting savings in ship-service time in each of these ports have
been calculated using a ship-day cost of US$5,000. Turkey's share
in these benefits is summarized under para. 4.13.
(c) Savings from reduced cargo damage. There is a relatively high
incidence of damage and breakage of general cargo during handling
and storage in Turkish ports at present, arising from inadequate
equipment, low palletization and lack of proper training in operat-
ing available equipment. This results in large losses to the
Turkish economy. The project will help reduce such losses through
the use of proper equipment, and training for using better cargo-
handling methods. In the light of discussions with cargo-insurance
companies, the report assumes a modest saving of 0.25% per ton of
cargo on this account. This average saving is assumed for all
general cargo excluding container traffic and the traffic handled
in stream, on the basis of an estimated average value of general
cargo of US$675 per ton. The resulting savings are expected to
accrue fully to Turkey. Savings on this account are estimated
separately-for each port, and are summarized for the whole project
under para. 4.13.
(d) Savings from new tugboats to assist ship pilotage in ports. Lack
of tugboats in suitable number and capacity has slowed down ship-
navigation and pilotage in Turkish ports, and has increased the
risk and frequency of ship-collision in these ports. The safety
hazards involved in piloting large oil tankers with small size tug-
boats recently provoked a threat to strike by the port pilots in
Mersin port. In the absence of the investment in tugs included in
the project, there will be a partial breakdown of the capability
of ports in piloting ships in and out of ports and in berthing and
unberthing ships, causing indefinite ship-waiting outside ports and
increasing ship hazards, the substantial adverse impact of which
will be difficult to quantify.  This report tries to estimate these
benefits with reference to only three of the project ports, viz.
Mersin, Iskenderun and Bandirma, which will receive a major share
of these investments. The estimate assumes that in the absence of
the new tugs, ships requiring compulsory pilotage in these ports
would be delayed on an average half-a-day per visit, including
possible delay in inward pilotage, berthing, unberthing, shifting
and outward pilotage. The value of the resulting delay time was
estimated using a cost of US$5,000 per ship-day (which is a con-
servative figure since oil tankers in the 30,000-60,000 dwt range
are involved). The estimated Turkish share in these savings is
given under para. 4.13.



- 40 -
(e)  Savings from use of heavy-lift floating crane.  Heavy lifts exceed-
ing 60 tons are at present brought to Turkey either in special ships
equipped with heavy handling gear, which involve higher freight
payments, or by breaking down the heavy lifts into smaller parts for
reassembly in Turkey. In view of the continued large industrial
expansion programs in Turkey, the need for heavy lift shipments
is steadily increasing. The floating zrane of 100-ton capacity
presently on order by DB for use in its shipyard would meet only
part of this demand. The 200-ton floating crane proposed under the
project would (i) reduce the shipping costs of heavy lifts, (ii)
reduce land transport costs of such heavy items by moving them from
ports, along the coast, to points nearest to their inland destina-
tions, and (iii) assist in salvage operations of marine accidents.
On the basis of Turkey's recent experience, the estimated extra
expenditure in engaging a special heavy-lift ship for carrying a
lift exceeding 100 tons will be about UJS$30,000 from Europe and
about US$80,000 from farther origins like USA. To make a rough
estimate of the savings involved, this report assumes about 20 heavy
lifts exceeding 100 tons being imported into Turkey annually (includ-
ing piec:es presently broken down to smaller components), with
an assumed average savings in freight of about US$60,000 per heavy
lift, yielding a savings of about US$1.2 million per annum; this is
considered a realistic notional estimate of overall benefits from
this investment.
Distribution of Benefits
4.11      Of the project benefits that have been quantified, only the share of
benefits accruing to Turkey have been taken into account in estimating the
economic return from the project. This share of benefits from shipping would
ultimately be reflected, through reduced shipping costs, as reduced prices of
imported goods benefiting domestic and industrial consumers, and as improved
net sale prices for Turkish exports. Turkey's share in the total benefits has
been estimated as follows:
(a)  Savings in ship-service time - general cargo - 70% is assumed as
Turkey's share on the following basis: 5% of all general cargo
is in domestic trade carried by Turkish ships, where all savings
accrue to Turkey. In the remaining general cargo traffic which
is in foreign trade, about 20% of totaL traffic is handled on
charter terms where service-time benefits will be fully passed on
to Turkey through the charter freight mechanism which is normally
fully responsive to changes in port conditions; an additional 15%
is carried in Turkish-owned liners, where again all ship-service
time savings will naturally accrue to Turkey.  For the remaining
60% of total traffic (all foreign liners), it is assumed that
about half the benefits will be passed on to Turkey, such redis-
tribution mainly taking the form of reductions in future freight
increases; the facts that the project will benefit a whole range
of Turkish ports and that Turkey is a member of most of the liner
conferenIces in the Turkish trade make this a rather conservative



- 39 -
(b)  Ship-time savings due to improved productivity in handling dry bulk
cargo. Some of the equipment included in the project (mainly
crawlers, grab cranes, etc.) are for improving the manual loading/
unloading operations in dry bulk cargo (excluding grain and mainly
consisting of ores and coal), in some ports (Iskenderun, Antalya,
Bandirma, Samsun and to some extent in Trabzon). Current produc-
tivity levels in these ports range around 600-700 t/ship-day which
is assumed to rise to 800-900 t/ship-day with the project. The
resulting savings in ship-service time in each of these ports have
been calculated using a ship-day cost of US$5,000. Turkey's share
in these benefits is summarized under para. 4.13.
(c)  Savings from reduced cargo damage.  There is a relatively high
incidence of damage and breakage of general cargo during handling
and storage in Turkish ports at present, arising from inadequate
equipment, low palletization and lack of proper training in operat-
ing available equipment. This results in large losses to the
Turkish economy. The project will help reduce such losses through
the use of proper equipment, and training for using better cargo-
handling methods. In the light of discussions with cargo-insurance
companies, the report assumes a modest saving of 0.25% per ton of
cargo on this account. This average saving is assumed for all
general cargo excluding container traffic and the traffic handled
in stream, on the basis of an estimated average value of general
cargo of US$675 per ton. The resulting savings are expected to
accrue fully to Turkey. Savings on this account are estimated
separately for each port, and are summarized for the whole project
under para. 4.13.
(d) Savings from new tugboats to assist ship pilotage in ports. Lack
of tugboats in suitable number and capacity has slowed down ship-
navigation and pilotage in Turkish ports, and has increased the
risk and frequency of ship-collision in these ports. The safety
hazards involved in piloting large oil tankers with small size tug-
boats recently provoked a threat to strike by the port pilots in
Mersin port. In the absence of the investment in tugs included in
the project, there will be a partial breakdown of the capability
of ports in piloting ships in and out of ports and in berthing and
unberthing ships, causing indefinite ship-waiting outside ports and
increasing ship hazards, the substantial adverse impact of which
will be difficult to quantify. This report tries to estimate these
benefits with reference to only three of the project ports, viz.
Mersin, Iskenderun and Bandirma, which will receive a major share
of these investments. The estimate assumes that in the absence of
the new tugs, ships requiring compulsory pilotage in these ports
would be delayed on an average half-a-day per visit, including
possible delay in inward pilotage, berthing, unberthing, shifting
and outward pilotage. The value of the resulting delay time was
estimated using a cost of US$5,000 per ship-day (which is a con-
servative figure since oil tankers in the 30,000-60,000 dwt range
are involved). The estimated Turkish share in these savings is
given under para. 4.13.



- 40 -
(e)  Savings from use of heavy-lift floating crane.  Heavy lifts exceed-
ing 60 tons are at present brought to Turkey either in special ships
equipped with heavy handling gear, which involve higher freight
payments, or by breaking down the heavy lifts into smaller parts for
reassembly in Turkey. In view of the continued large industrial
expansion programs in Turkey, the need for heavy lift shipments
is steadily increasing. The floating crane of 100-ton capacity
presently on order by DB for use in its shipyard would meet only
part of this demand. The 200-ton floating crane proposed under the
project would (i) reduce the shipping costs of heavy lifts, (ii)
reduce land transport costs of such heavy items by moving them from
ports, along the coast, to points nearest to their inland destina-
tions, and (iii) assist in salvage operations of marine accidents.
On the basis of Turkey's recent experience, the estimated extra
expenditure in engaging a special heavy-lift ship for carrying a
lift exceeding 100 tons will be about 1JS$30,000 from Europe and
about US$80,000 from farther origins like USA. To make a rough
estimate of the savings involved, this report assumes about 20 heavy
lifts exceeding 100 tons being imported into Turkey annually (includ-
ing pieces presently broken down to smaller components), with
an assumed average savings in freight of about US$60,000 per heavy
lift, yielding a savings of about US$1.2 million per annum; this is
considered a realistic notional estimate of overall benefits from
this investment.
Distribution of Benefits
4.11      Of the project benefits that have been quantified, only the share of
benefits accruing to Turkey have been taken into account in estimating the
economic return from the project. This share of benefits from shipping would
ultimately be reflected, through reduced shipping costs, as reduced prices of
imported goods benefiting domestic and industriaL consumers, and as improved
net sale prices for Turkish exports. Turkey's share in the total benefits has
been estimated as follows:
(a)  Savings in ship-service time - general cargo - 70% is assumed as
Turkey's share on the following basis: 5% of all general cargo
is in domestic trade carried by Turkish ships, where all savings
accrue to Turkey.  In the remaining general cargo traffic which
is in foreign trade, about 20% of totaL traffic is handled on
charter terms where service-time benefits will be fully passed on
to Turkey through the charter freight mechanism which is normally
fully responsive to changes in port conditions; an additional 15%
is carried in Turkish-owned liners, where again all ship-service
time savings will naturally accrue to Turkey. For the remaining
60% of total traffic (all foreign liners), it is assumed that
about half the benefits will be passed on to Turkey, such redis-
tribution mainly taking the form of reductions in future freight
increases; the facts that the project will benefit a whole range
of Turkish ports and that Turkey is a member of most of the liner
conferences in the Turkish trade make this a rather conservative



-41 -
assumption. Some of the benefits accruing to foreign ships could
also be tapped through increased port charges on ships using these
ports.
(b)  Savings in ship-waiting time - general cargo:  As some recent
studies have shown, additional (above normal) waiting costs in
a country's ports incurred by foreign ships (liners) are
generally fully passed on to the country concerned through
congestion surcharges levied by the shipping lines. (Some
Turkish ports had congestion surcharges of up to 30% of freight
rates during 1975-76 when port congestion was acute.) In the
case of charter traffic (non-liner), such waiting costs are
normally passed on to the country by freight or demurrage
adjustments as part of the charter rate mechanism. Therefore
all savings in avoiding ship-waiting costs in a country's ports,
whether in liner or charter trade, should normally fully accrue
to the country concerned. The report, however, conservatively
assumes Turkey's share in such project benefits as only 90%.
(c)  Savings in ship-service time - dry bulk traffic:  All coastal
traffic, and about half of foreign traffic, is carried in
Turkish ships. Moreover, all traffic is carried on charter
terms, where full rate adjustments reflecting the new handling
rates should normally occur, passing on full benefits to
Turkey. Report assumes Turkey's share as only 90%.
(d)  Benefits from heavy lift crane:  All freight savings accrue
to Turkey.
4.12      To allow a liberal time-lag for passing on to Turkey the benefits
initially accruing to foreign ships, all project benefits accruing in 1982
have been ignored; further, only half of the project benefits related to
foreign ships estimated as Turkey's share for 1983 has been included in the
project benefit stream while calculating the economic return.
Summary of Quantified Benefits: Benefit Stream
4.13      The following summarizes the quantified benefits accruing to Turkey
from the total project discussed in paras. 4.08 through 4.12. Project bene-
fits beyond 1985 have been frozen at the 1985 level since the project facil-
ities will be fully utilized by the traffic levels expected by then. Benefits
beyond 1990 have been ignored.



- 42 -
Benefits Stream (Turkish Share) from Total Project
(in 1979 prices; in US$ '000)
Savings   Savings    Savings
in Ship   in Ship    in Ship   Savings               Savings
Service   Waiting    Service    from                 Due to
Time      Time        Time      Reduced  Savings   Heavy
(general  (general  (dry bulk   Cargo   Due to   Floating   Total
Year         cargo)    cargo)       cargo)   Damage    Tugs       Crane    Benefits
1982       -------------------(Benefits ignored)----------------------
1983         9680      19590        2450      4600      1950        600      39230
1984        25560      49800        4900      9160      3900       1200     94520
1985        26780      42000        4900    10240       3900       1200     89020
1986        26780      42000        4900    10240       3900       1200     89020
1987        26780      42000        4900    10240       3900       1200     89020
1988        26780      42000        4900    10240       3900       1200     89020
1989         26780     42000        4900    10240       3900       1200     89020
1990        26780      42000        4900    10240       3900       1200     89020
C.  Economic Costs of the Project
4.14      The project costs already exclude customs duties on imported com-
ponents.  Economic costs of project investments are expressed in 1979 prices,
and, therefore, exclude the price contingencies in the cost estimates. Local
taxes on local components have been ignored, being negligible. For the total
project analysis, a:Ll project items including technical assistance financed
by Bank, UNDP and Government are included in project costs; capital costs
also include the cost of additional tugboat engines (US$5 million) which the
Government would buy separately (para. 3.06); additional operating and main-
tenance costs due to the project are also estimated separately without price
escalation. A summary of the total economic costs of the project is given
below:
Economic Costs Stream: Total Project
(1979 prices; in US$ '000)
Additional
Capital               Operating
Year                   Costs                   Costs
1979                    560                      -
1980                  48475                      -
1981                  47075                      -
1982                  14830                      -
1983                    560                    6000
1984                     -                     6275
1985 to 1990 (annual)   -                      6550 to 7100



- 43 -
4.15      Cost streams for individual ports have been estimated separately;
port-wise cost streams cover all project investments which can be allocated
port-wise (the resulting main exclusions being technical assistance for port
sector planning and the heavy floating crane; indeed their corresponding
benefits are also excluded in the port-wise analysis).
D. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
4.16      The economic return from the total project investments has been
estimated on the basis of the cost and benefit streams presented in the fore-
going sections. The project yields a high rate of return (IER) of 37%. The
first year return from the project, based on a 12% discount rate, exceeds 50%.
The return is high because the project consists of overdue and critical com-
plementary investments which will enable better use of large existing port
investments.
4.17      Economic return from the project investments in individual ports
has been estimated separately for each port. The results of these calcula-
tions are summarized below. The results indicate that the project investment
in each of the ten project ports is individually justified. The very high
rates of return in some ports reflect the high port congestion costs avoided
in these ports due to the project, such uneven incidence of port congestion
being partly the result of existing locational pattern of industries and other
economic activities which generate port traffic.
Internal Economic Return from Project Investments in Individual Ports
Port                     IER                   Port                    IER
Trabzon                   15                   Bandirma                 25
Samsun                   35                    Izmir                    62
Haydarpasa               46                    Antalya                  17
Salipazari               26                    Mersin                   58
Derince                   47                   Iskenderun               32
4.18      The sensitivity of the total project's basic economic return has
been tested under varying combinations of adverse conditions including some
rather unlikely situations. The results of this analysis are presented below:



- 44 -
Economic Return
(a)  Basic Rate                                                 37%
(b) With 25% increase in project costs
(capital + operating)                                      30%
(c) With 25% reduction in benefits from basic
estimates                                                  28%
(d)  Combination of (b) and (c)                                 22%
(e) General cargo traffic increasing at only
half the rate of growth assumed in the
report, and with productivity gains due
to the project being about one-half of
the basic estimates                                        20%
4.19      The above results confirm the strong economic justification for the
project as well as its urgency.
4.20      The project is generally free from any significant risk, although
projected increases in port productivity, which depend in part on the success
of the institutional, managerial, and training improvements, and port traffic,
which depends on revived economic activities, may not fully materialize.
Nevertheless, as the sensitivity test under (e) above indicates, even in the
extreme case where general-cargo traffic growth and port productivity improve-
ments are reduced by one half, the resulting economic rate of return remains
satisfactory.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General Objectives
5.01      Ideally, any port or port authority's finances should be structured
in such a way that not only is the port financially viable, but that also the
tariffs recover for the country a substantial part of the economic benefits
enjoyed by users o.: the port, including an adequate share of the benefits
accruing to foreign ships using the ports.
5.02      This ideal situation can only be implemented when there is an ade-
quate data base, and the financial measures and covenants set forth in this
report are designed to facilitate such implementation. They include a cost
accounting system followed by rational tariffs which are discussed in detail
in this chapter.
5.03      However, until such time as these measures take effect, it is essen-
tial that the ports generate and retain enough income to enable them to carry
out efficient operations, maintain their assets in good working order and make
essential minor investments for the good functioning of the ports. The mea-
sures designed to achieve this objective are also described in this chapter.



- 45 -
B. Finances - Present and Projected
5.04      The financial transactions of the various ports are recorded sepa-
rately in the head offices of TCDD and DB at Ankara and Istanbul respectively,
but the annual operating results are merged with those of the other activities
of the two organizations. With the addition of the ad valorem duty referred
to in para. 2.13, the port transactions in themselves present a satisfactory
financial picture. However, the resulting port surpluses are utilized to
reduce the losses from the other activities of the parent bodies (TCDD and
DB). The total net deficits for 1977 for all activities after such adjustment
was 1,591 million TL for TCDD and 1,161 million TL for DB. Such diversion of
the ports' funds has resulted, in the recent past, in inadequate investments
in the ports for replacing and renewing old assets and for undertaking other
essential modernization of facilities. However, the present arrangements are
expected to change with the possible establishment of the New Ports Institu-
tion (para. 2.22).
5.05      From the Balance Sheet for 1977, items pertaining to port operations
have been extracted from the accounts of the two organizations and are sum-
marized below together with estimates for 1978, 1982, 1983 and 1985: (See
para. 5.07 for assumptions used.)
DB Ports                           TCDD Ports
1977   1978   1982   1983   1985   1977   1978   1982   1983   1985
Actual --------Estimated--------   Actual -------Estimated 
------------------------------TL million----------------
Gross fixed
assets         442    817  1,878  2,976  3,876    750  1,520  1,934  4,596  6,455
Less depre-
ciation        207    248    460    592    895    267    322    575    759  1,201
Net fixed
assets         235    569  1,418  2,384  2,981    483  1,198  1,359  3,837  5,254
Work-in-
progress       176    176  1,073       -      -        8      28  2,612      -      -
411    745  2,491  2,384  2,981    491  1,226  3,971  3,837  5,254
Net current
assets           3    298    395    375    403        34    762  3,598  4,366  6,126
Capital
employed       414  1,043  2,886  2759    384    525  1           7988  7,569  8,203
Represented
by Govern-
ment equity
Capital          414    765  1,978  1,978  2,828    525  1,295  2,954  2,972  4,792
Reserves          -      278    389    282    136       -      693  3,356  4,010  5,562
414  1,043  2,367  2,260  2,964    525  1,988  6,310  6,982 10,354
Debt              -       -     519    499    420       -       -   1259  1,221  1,026
414  1,043  2,886  2,759  3,384    525  1,988  7,569  8,203 11,380
Debt equity
ratio           -      -   18/82  18/82  12/88        -      -   16/84  15/85   9/91



- 46 -
5.06       On the basis of the annual accounts of the two organizations for
1977, the revenue and expenditure figures for port. operations are summarized
below after adjustment of general, administration and management expenses.
The estimates for 1978, 1982, 1983 and 1985 are also summarized below: (See
para. 5.07 for assumptions used.)
DB Ports                              TCDD Ports
------------------------------TL million----------------------------
1977   1978   1982   1983   1985    1977   1978   1982   1983   1985
Actual --------Estimated---------   Actual --------Estimated---------
Operating
Revenue
Charges on
vessels        246    301    381    420    490           56      60      77     83      99
Charges on
cargo          598    523    672    747    884          837    676    898    965  1,119
Other              36      33     42      45      51      136    128    162    174    199
Total          880    857  1.095  1,212  1,425   1,029    864  1,137  1,222  1,417
Operating
Expenses
Salaries and
wages          560    783  1,479  1,627  1,968          291    408    769    846  1,024
Other expenses  288    317    526    579    701           339    373    601    661    800
Depreciation       22      41     79    132    152         27      55      76    184    222
Total          870  1,141  2,084  2,338  2,821          657    836  1,446  1,691  2,046
Net operating
surplus
(deficit)       10   (284)  (989)(1,126)(1,396)        372      28   (309)  (469)  (629)
Net non-
operating
revenue          24     27      32      33      36        2       3       3      3       3
Interest paid    44       46      50      66      64        -       -      92     96      81
Net revenue
surplus
(deficit)      (10)  (303)(1,007)(1,159)(1,424)        374      31   (398)  (562)  (707)
Ad valorem
duty           708    582    941  1,052  1,371          800    662  1,060  1,216. 1,545
Surplus
(deficit)      698    279      (66)  (107)   (53)  1,174    693    662    654    838
Operating
ratio           99    133    190    193    198           64      97    127    138    144



- 47 -
5.07      The main assumptions used in the forecasts shown in paras. 5.05 and
5.06 are as follows:
Fixed Assets. The 1977 Fixed Assets are shown at the values
contained in the Books of Account, pending revaluation
(para. 2.10). For 1978 to 1985, fixed assets include, in
addition to the rehabilitation project, estimated costs for
new assets completed or estimated to be completed during the
period and which will be financed by the Government, e.g.,
the port infrastructure investment program 1979/83 of 2.8
billion TL (para. 3.01).
Equity and Reserves include Government contributions to
capital expenditures and the accumulated forecast surpluses.
Revenue. The income from ships, cargo, storage and mis-
cellaneous items is based on current tariff levels and
the estimated trend of traffic. For the ad valorem duty
the value of imports per ton is assumed to increase by
5% every year. Differences between DB and TCDD ports
arise from different composition of traffic and services
provided (see para. 2.44).
Expenditure
(a) Wages and salaries for 1978 are based on preliminary accounts
for the year, and are assumed to increase by 30% in 1979, 20%
in 1980, and 10% thereafter to cover inflation and the cost
of additional staff to be recruited. DB ports have relatively
higher wage expenses compared with TCDD ports because: (i)
their (DB ports) operations are more labor-intensive, arising
from the higher percentage of general cargo handled by them;
(ii) they maintain a special pilotage department to pilot
ships across the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles straits; and
(iii) their wage levels are relatively higher.
(b) Repairs and Maintenance and Other Expenditures - costs have
been increased by 10% a year with a special addition in 1982
of 3% of the value of the new assets.
(c)  Depreciation, as prescribed in Government regulations, is 2-4%
for dredging, civil works, slipway and floating cranes, 5% for
floating craft and 5-15% for cargo-handling equipment.
(d) Interest charges are calculated at 7.9% for the Bank loan with
repayment commencing in December 1983.
5.08      Cash flow estimates for the DB and TCDD ports for the years from
1979 to 1983 are summarized below:



- 48 -
1978-1983
DB Ports      TCDD Ports
-TL million ------
Funds required
Bank project                          1,072.6        2,642.0
Other investments                     1,235.0         1,175.0
Repaymernt of Loan                       19.8            49.0
Increases in working capital             20.1            24.7
2,397.5        3,890.7
Funds available
Internal (deficit)                   (4,115.7)         (935.8)
Ad-valorem duty                       4,782.7         5,437.5
Proposed Bank Loan                      5L9.1         1,269.5
Government contributions              1,563.5        2,427.5
2,749.6        8,198.7
Balance available after
meeting above requirements            352.1        4,308.0
The above figures for "Other Investments" include those undertaken by the
Government through the Ministry of Public Works (see para. 3.01) and the
limited capital investments undertaken directly by DB and TCDD. Government
capital contributions include the local currency financing of the proposed
project (para. 3.11) and the major capital expenditures financed through the
Ministry of Public Works. It has also been assunied that the ad valorem duty
funds will be available to the extent required for port purposes.
5.09      Detailed annual financial forecasts for the period 1979-85 (summarized
for selected years in para. 5.06) indicate that including receipts from the
ad valorem duty, TCDD ports would have substantial surpluses all through the
period of analysis (693 million TL in 1978 rising to 838 million TL), while
DB ports would have surpluses only up to 1981, with deficits from 1982 onwards
ranging between 66 and 107 million TL. Without the duty, that is on the basis
of net operating revenues, the DB ports will be in deficit from 1978 onwards--
the annual deficit increasing from 303 million TL to 1,424 million TL in
1985--and the TCDD ports from 1979 onwards--the annual deficit increasing from
72 million TL in 1979 to 707 million TL in 1985. Based on the estimated
deficits for 1982, before including the levy, the percentage increases in
revenues required to meet operating expenses, debt service and a reasonable
annual contribution to capital expenditures, is 110% for the DB ports and 50%
for the TCDD ports. In the case of the DB ports, this increase is more than
the amount of the estimated ad valorem duty. However, with the retention of
the levy and based on the assumption that these funds would be available as
needed for port operations then an increase in revenue would only be required
for the DB ports, of about 25% in 1982. The measures considered necessary and
agreed with the Government, DB and TCDD to ensure financial viability and the
recovery for the country of a substantial part of the economic benefits
accruing from the proposed project are set forth in paras. 5.11 to 5.12.



- 49 -
5.10      The present and projected financial situation presented above raises
two issues: (a) the need to ensure that sufficient port funds would be
generated and retained for use by the ports without being diverted to other
uses; and (b) the need to phase out the heavy dependence on the ad valorem
duty which results in one section of ports users subsidizing other users in-
cluding foreign ship-owners.
5.11      The long-term solutions to meet the above problems would be (i) to
have a separate agency, to manage and operate the ports, and (ii) to restruc-
ture the tariff system based more on the cost of port services, with due
regard for cash-flow needs and other criteria related to the rational manage-
ment of ports. Such a tariff system would create a more rational charging
system and conditions for cost-effective management. The prospects and timing
for (i) are presently uncertain (see para. 2.22). Regarding (ii), as mentioned
in para. 2.14, Government, TCDD and DB have agreed to engage a cost-accounting
expert to prescribe a suitable cost-accounting system for the ports, as a
preliminary step towards revising the tariff structure, such study to be com-
pleted by October 31, 1980. Government has also agreed during negotiations
to cause DB, TCDD (or the proposed New Ports Institution) to put into effect,
not later than January 1, 1982, tariffs for port operations related to their
costs, and sufficient to cover (i) all port operating expenses (including
adequate maintenance), (ii) debt service, and (iii) a reasonable contribution
to their future capital investments including replacements which are now
financed mainly through Government budget allocations. The capital contribu-
tion under (iii) is defined as not less than 35% of the average annual cost of
port investments to be made in TCDD and DB ports during the following five-year
period. It was also agreed that whereas port revenues should be based on
cost-related tariffs, a portion of the ad valorem dock duty could be used to
complement the revenues should this be necessary in order to meet the cash
flow criteria under (i), (ii) and (iii) above.
5.12      Government, DB and TCDD have also agreed that:  until the tariff
system is revised as above, and until the New Ports Institution is estab-
lished, and in order to stop the flow-through to other activities of funds
which are necessary for running the ports, TCDD and DB (or the New Ports
Institution as the case may be) will set aside for port purposes enough port
revenues (including as necessary the ad valorem duty) to meet the following
needs each year: operating expenses, including adequate maintenance of
assets, debt service and a reasonable contribution to capitali investment.
Capital investment is defined to cover, until the proposed tariff revision in
1982, only the small capital investments which DB and TCDD normally incur,
equivalent to about US$1 million per annum each, based on recent experience.
The above is a minimum measure to ensure proper maintenance and efficient
running of the ports in the short term. Because of the overall deficits in
the two organizations, it would be unrealistic to require them to set aside
immediately a larger contribution for investment until port costs have been
reviewed and the necessary action on tariffs taken. In any event, in the
short run, additional funds for investments will not be needed for the ports.
From 1982 onwards, the contribution to capital investment will be increased to
a normal level of 35% (para. 5.11). Such allocation of port funds will be
reflected in separately maintained and audited accounts for port activities
(para. 2.09), and will be continued until the New Ports Institution is estab-
lished.



- 50 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM4MENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government,
TCDD and DB, on the following main issues.
(a)  Government, TCDD and DB will implement the measures for organiza-
tional reform in the ports sub-sector listed in para. 2.17.
(b) Government will, before March 31, 1980, furnish to Bank the draft
proposals and draft legal instruments for long-term organizational
reform in the ports sub-sector and after exchange of views on the
subject with Bank, will take all prompt measures for finalization
of the necessary legal instruments; and will, within 36 months of
its finalization, cause the resulting New Ports Institution to be
fully operational, for which Government will prepare a detailed
implementation plan after consultation with Bank (para. 2.22).
(c) The assets of the ports will be revaluecd and the revised values
reflected in the annual financial statemlents at least on a pro-
forma basis from the year ending 1981, and thereafter such assets
will be revalued at least once every three years on the basis of
replacement costs (para. 2.10).
(d)  The annual accounts and financial statements related specifically
to the port activities of DB and TCDD will be maintained and
audited separately by independent auditors (paras. 2.09, 2.11).
(e) Government will not undertake, directly or indirectly, major new
port projects in the public sector costing in excess of $10 mil-
lion, other than those referred to in the Government's Fourth Five-
Year Plan (1979-83), before reviewing with the Bank the results of
Phase II of the Port Planning Study financed under the project
(para. 3.03).
(f) All local costs of the project and any cost overruns will be met
by Government (para. 3.11).
(g) Subsidiary Loan Agreements will be signed between Government and
TCDD and DB (para. 3.13).
(h) The project will be implemented as a common project for ports,
with specified coordination arrangements between DB, TCDD and
other agencies, with a view to avoiding duplication of efforts
(para. 3.16).
(i) Government, TCDD and DB will complete all project implementation
and coord:ination arrangements according to an agreed schedule,
including establishment of the Project Coordination Committee
before June 30, 1979; the appointment of additional staff for
TCA before August 31, 1979 to service the PCC; the appointment



- 51 -
of a consultant to assist in equipment specifications and pro-
curement before June 30, 1979; and the setting up of an inter-
ministerial committee before August 31, 1979 to oversee the port
sector planning study (paras. 3.17, 3.18, 3.21).
(j) A study by a consultant, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, will be conducted for prescribing a suitable cost-
accounting system for the DB and TCDD ports, as a preliminary
step towards revising their tariff system, such study to be
completed by October 31, 1980 (para. 2.14).
(k)  Government will cause DB, TCDD or the New Ports Institution to
put into effect, not later than January 1, 1982, tariffs for
port operations related to their costs and sufficient to cover
in any year (i) all port operating expenses, (ii) debt charges,
and (iii) at least 35% of the average annual cost of port in-
vestments in TCDD and DB ports during the following five-year
period. In order to fully meet the overall cost-criteria under
(i), (ii) and (iii) above, port revenues could be complemented
by a portion of the ad valorem dock duty (para. 5.11).
(1) Until the tariff system is revised as above and until the pro-
posed New Ports Institution is established to administer the
ports on a separate basis, TCDD and DB (or the New Ports Insti-
tution as the case may be) should set aside for port operations
enough funds from port revenues including as necessary the ad
valorem dock duty to meet a set of specific cash-flow criteria
(para. 5.12).
6.02       The effectiveness of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be signed
between the Government, TCDD and DB (para. 3.13) will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
6.03       Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of $75 million to the Government of Turkey on standard Bank terms, for
a period of 17 years including a grace period of four years.



APPRAISAL OF
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TURKEY
Detailed Project Components
ar,d Cost Estimates
(US$ 000)                                                                                      For-
____        OR_____ DB Ports -----   -------TCDD Ports -------             ------ General Use -----               -----  Total-----------          ex-       of
ITEM                               Local    Foreign    Total            Local   Foreign       Total            Local    Foreign    Total            Local      Foreign    Total      change   Total
1) CARGO HANDOLING EQUIPMENT
Electric shore ,ranes- regular              1,450     4,100      5,550           3,000      8,800     11,800             -          -         -             4,450      12,900      17.350       75
Electric shore cranes - grab                  -          -         -               960      2,400      3,360                                                   870 3960  2,500      4,3760       70
Mobile cranes - crawlers                                                                                                 -          -         -                870      3,500       4,370       80
Mobile cranes - regular                     1,000     4,380      5,380           1,300      5,380      6,680             -          -         -             2,300       9,760      12,060       80
Forklift trucks - containers                   80     1,070      1,150             120     1,500       1,620             -          -         -                200      2,570       2,770       90
Forklift trucks - regular                     300     2,100      2,400             190      1,420      1,610             -          -         -               490       3,520       4,010       90
Tractors                                       50        440       490              50        400        450             -          -         -                100        840         940       90
Trailers                                      220        110       330             200        100        300             -          -         -                420        210         630       30
Generators  40  400  440            -         -                           -         -          -                40         400         440       90
Generatorr                                                         -                20        200        220-                       -         -                 20        200)        220       90
Subtotal                                  3,140    12,600    15,740            6,710    23,700      30,410                        -         -             9,850      36,300      46,150                 29.7
SPFRE PARTS                                    80        600       680             100        850        950             -          -         -                180       1,450      1,630       90
For rehabilitation of existing equipment    180        1.230     1.410             190      1.650      1,840                        -                          370      2.880                   90
Subtotal                                    260     1.830      2,090             290      2,500     2j7o -                        -         -                550     40330        4,880                  3.1
Subtotal - Equipment                      3,400    14,430    17,830            7,000    26,200      33,200             -          -         -            10,400      40,630      51,030                 32.8
2) FLOATING CXAFT
F  L  1OATING  CRAT ne                        -          -         -             4,000      2,600      6,600             -          -          -             4,000       2,600      6,600       40
2500 HP  Tugboat                              -          -         -             1,400      1,200      2,600             -          -          -             1,400       1,200      2,600       45
1500 HP Tugboats - (2 units)                             -         -             1,800      1,800      3,600             -          -         -              1,800       1,800      3,600       50
1250 HP Tugboats - (3 units)                  -          -         -             2,400      2,100      4,500             -          -          -             2,400       2,100      4,500       45
1000 HP Tugboats - (3 units)                  -          -         -             1,800      1,800      3,600             -          -             *          1,800       1,800      3,600        50
350 HP Tugboats- (4 units)                   -          -         -                                      -            1,600      1,200      2,800           1,600       1,200      2,800       40
Serwice boats  (15 units)           -          -            ~~~~~~      ~~~~~1.200  600  1,800--                                         1,200        600       1.800       35
Service boats      (15 units)                                                   12,600    10,100      22,700            1,600     1,200      2,800          14,200      11,300     25,500                  16.4
SPAREoPaRT                                                                         40        360         400               5        45         50*             45         405         4.50     90
Subtotal Floating Craft                                                       12,640    10,460      23,100           1,605      1,245      2,850          14,245      11,705     25,950                  16.7
3) HYDROGRAPHIC AND COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                    *
D0UTPHRNT (including spares)                   30        300        330              40       330         370              40        330       370             110         960       1,070       90
(1 - 3) Equipment Subtotal                  3,430    14,730    18,160           19,680    36,990      56,670           1,645      1,575      3,220          24,755      53,295     78,050                 50.2
0



APPRAISAL OF
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TURKEY
Detailed Project Components
and Cost Estimates
(US$ 000)                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~For-
(US$ )                                                                                      eign       .
___________ DB Ports -----           -------TCDD Ports -------             ------ General Use ------            -------- Total-----------          ex-       of
ITEM                               Local    Foreign    Total            Local   Foreign      Total            Local   Foreign    Total              Local     Foreign    Total       change   Total
4) WORk-
(i)  Civil Works
Paving and maintenance                 3,580     1,200      4,780          4,500      1,640       6,140             -         -          -             8,080       2,840      10,920       25
Sheds                                 2,200        740      2,940             -         -           -               -          -         -             2,200         740       2,940       25
Dredging                                 220       150        370             960       680       1.640             -          -         -             1.180         830       2.010       40
Subtotal civil works                6,000      2,090      8,090          5,460      2,320       7,780             -         -          -            11,460       4,410      15,870                27.8
(ii)  Slipways
Iskenderun - 300T - Construction         -         -          -             1,080     1,470       2,550             -          -         -             1,080       1,470       2,550       50
Equipment           -         -          -               180     1,000       1,180             -          -         -               180       1,000       1,180       85
Antalya - lOOT - Construction            470        260       730             -          -          -               -          -          -               470        260         730       36
Equipment              130        110       240             -          -          -               -          -          -               130         110        240       45
Subtotal - Slipways                    600       370        970           1,260     2.470       3,730             -         -          -             1.860       2,840       4,700
Subtotal - Works                    6,600       2,460    9,060           6,720      4,790      11,510             -          -         -            13,320       7,250      20,570                 13.2
5) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Training                                                                                                                  70        430        500              70         430        500       85
Management studies                             60          70      130              90        140         230            -          -          -               150         210        360        60
Port sector studies                           --          __                       -          -          -               160        940      1,100             160         940      1,100       85
Subtotal - Technical Assistance              60          70      130              90        140        230             230      1,370     1.600              380      1.580       1.960                  1.3
Subtotal 4) 5)                            6,660       2,530    9,190           6,810     4,930      11,740             230      1,370     1,600          13,700       8,830      22,530
Subtotal 1) 2) 3)                         3,430      14,730   18,160          19,680    36.990      56.670           1,645      1,575     3.220          24,755      53,295      78,050
Total cost (1 - 5)                     10,090     17,260   27,350           26,490    41,920      68,410           1,875      2,945     4,820          38,455      62,125    100,580                  64.6
6) CONTINGENCIES
(i)  Physical: Works                        1,300        470    1,770            1,300        780      2,080             -          -          -            2,600       1,250       3,850       30
Slipways equipment             30          20        50             40        180         220             _         _          -                70         200         270       75
Subtotal                 1,330         490    1,820           1,340        960       2,300             _                                  2,670       1,450      4,120                  2.6
(ii) Price:
Cargo handling equipment             2,773       2,380    5,153           5,827     4,440      10,267             -          -          -            8,600       6,820      15,420       45
Floating craft                         -          -                      12,980      2,106     15,086           1,580        220     1,800          14,560       2,326      16,886       15
Hydrographic                            25         43        68              31         47         78              36         57         93              92        147         239       60
10
Civil works e dredging               6,910        459    7,369            6,160        572      6,732             -          -          -           13,070       1,031      14,101       20
Slipway                              1,003        125    1,128            2,058        719      2,777             -          -         -             3,061         844       3,905       75
Technical assistance                    10          6        16              15        13          28              67        238       305               92        257         349
Subtotal               10,721       3,013   13,734          27,071      7,897     34,968           1,683        515      2,198          39,475      11,425     50,900
Subtotal contingencies                   12.051       3,503   15.554          28,411      8.857    37 268            1.683        515      2.198          42,145      12,875     55,020                 35,4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       2,141       20,763   42,904          54,981    50,777   105,678              3,558     3,460      7,018          80,600      75,000    155,600                 100
* For LI (Public Works Ministry).
** In addition, UNDP will provide training costing US$0.93 million in foreign
exchange, with Government financing its local counterpart costs of about
US$0.9 million equivalent.
Source:  Mission Estimates
March 1979



- 54-                              ANNEX 2
Page 1
Documents in Project File
A.   Consultants' Studies
1.   Louis Berger International, Inc. - Technical Assistance in Transport
Planning, Port Sub-sector, Draft Final Report, 1975.
2.   Louis Berger International, Inc. - Port sub-sector - Cost Accounting
Study, January 1976.
3.   UNDP project document on port training in Turkey, February 1979.
B.   General
1.   Draft legislation regarding the National Port Authority (DEVLIM).
2.   Government Decree No. 7/13681 dated February 10, 1979 regarding the
disposal of goods in storage.
3.   Statute No. 827 dated February 16, 1967 regarding 5% ad valorem dock
duty.
4.   Translation of Turkish Maritime Bank's port administration tariffs
as published in Official Gazette No. 15696 dated September 3, 1976
and subsequent corrections.
5.   Summary of main port projects included in the Fourth Five-Year Plan.
6.   Organization charts of TCDD and the Turkish Maritime Bank.
7.   Port-wise staff allocation and expenditure on salaries and wages
-during 1976 and 1977.
8.   Outline of quarterly progress reports.
9.   Outline of Terms of Reference for port sector planning and other
studies included in the project.                                                  *
C.   Engineering Data
1.   Technical data on the project ports.
2.   Existing cargo-handling and other equipment in the project ports.
3.   Detailed cost estimates of the project, with port-wise details.
4.   Port-wise allocation of equipment and floating craft included under
the program.



- 55 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.   Details of civil works and dredging in the various ports to be done
under the project.
6.   Project implementation schedule - bar chart.
D.   Economic
1.   General transport statistics 1970-77.
2.   Past traffic data through project ports 1970-77.
3.   Preliminary traffic estimates for 1978.
4.   Detailed traffic projections for project ports (port-wise), 1979-85.
5.   Details of data, assumptions and calculations of the economic return
from project investments (for individual ports and total project).
E.   Financial Data
1.   Annual accounts of Turkish Maritime Bank for 1975, 1976, 1977.
2.   Pro forma accounts of port operations compiled by Turkish Maritime
Bank for 1976 and 1977.
3.   Pro forma accounts of railway and port operations compiled by TCDD
for 1976 and 1977.
4.   Forecast financial statements (balance sheets, revenue and expendi-
ture accounts and cash flow) of Turkish Maritime Bank ports and
TCDD ports for the years 1978 to 1985.
5.   Port-wise revenue collections during 1976 and 1977.



PORTS  1~~~~~~~~~~~HABIfUTATIX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  PRQ~~~~~~~~~IRD130
T~er   bru IhMunmq~
9peru~d by r ish~ ~e                                                                                        INP.0!&
9ak                                                                                                                            mUshane                            A-qjrn B I ~B
Ed,emrit ikesir                   Eskieoriea
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



- s - U - e A R- 1- A, -                                                        2  P * n                 -                                    rea '  a ... 
'-01". L G   A  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A'A   
P      O R T S   RI                P \,
; vt \lLS \ ) abaeskl/ \ .. ..                                        .e. .....VI            -e b Trk   are a  (DO)
IQ;ra  =,  S  g  . 5  e: a -   -o  -f       -       22e                                             )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Operated by Turkish Maritime Bank(DB)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                               - iE,a. nik~$WtiAOerationa    bo  .undiharities  400(D
CYP ~    ~       ~        C
se9ean   A  > g   v  >  S    c         \         0                 >     <    3                            gg@8stanbulMetropolitanArea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o hecedrsofte epr t wih t sStoc.. hedtumieise sd shte    
< 3   iZ  J>)akkale   f>tBiga   9 /             g                        C     Bilecik   i                       -    Railwuys~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ekieir ~ tsctter.ooocc s ti tepd ct tpt,soPt  et o  heWrl Bc ed t  - 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir arteii 
Sara                                                                    e  a t  gEsTr  -   _ Nz@Der tIeooioreJ
l  2tvsa 3   i\'oTo Bolikesir  2;r           Bai8i                               29                        3Q0 To Afyo  AnkOr       510                         2           lc



