Document of                FIL-E  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2382-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 13, 1979
This document has a restrlcted distriwtion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oieficil duties. ItS contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank antborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
Currency Unit                    Calendar 1978                  March 1979
US Dollar 1                        TL 24.28                      TL 25.00
TL 1                               US$ 0.04                      US$ 0.04
1/  Note:  This Report and the Staff Appraisal Report have been prepared on
the basis of the exchange rate of TL25   US$1.00, which prevailed until
Turkey introduced a multiple exchange rate system in April which was again
modified on June 11, 1979. The current rate is TL 47.1 = US$1.00, except
for oil and fertilizer imports and agriculttural exports for which it is
TL 35 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEARS
Republic of Turkey              -       March 1 to February 28
DB and TCDD                     -       January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CLAs         -             Convertible Lira Accounts
CMEA         -            Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
GDP          -            Gross Domestic Product
DB           -             (Denizcilik Bankasi)
Turkish Maritime Bank
LI           -             (Limanlar Insaati)
Directorate of Harbor Construction
in the Ministry of Public Works
OECD         -            Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
SEE          -             State Economic Enterprise
TCA          -            Transport Coordination Agency
TCDD         -             (Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demiryollari)
Turkish State Railways
UNDP         -             United Nations Development Programme
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (MT) - 1.1023 US Short Tons



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiaries:       Turkish Maritime Bank (DB) and Turkish State Railways
(TCDD).
Amount:              US$75.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Seventeen years, including four years grace, at 7.9 percent
per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower will onlend to DB and TCDD the equivalent
of about $20.8 and $50.8 million respectively for
seventeen years, including 4 years of grace, on the same
terms as the proposed loan. The Borrower will retain
about $3.4 million for technical assistance and equipment.
Project
Description:         The proposed project's objectives are the rehabilitation
and modernization of Turkey's ten main public ports, the
initiation of institutional and financial improvements in
DB's and TCDD's ports operations, and assistance in
rationalizing future port investment decisions through
master planning and feasibility studies.
The project includes: (i) provision of cargo-handling
equipment and floating craft, including spare parts; (ii)
expansion and improvement of open and covered storage
areas, as well as dredging and slipway construction;
(iii) training for ports operational and managerial staff,
including stevedores and equipment operators; (iv) expert
studies designed to improve the efficiency of port organiza-
tions in Turkey; and (v) assistance to complete an ongoing
national port planning study (Phase I) and thereafter to
prepare a national master plan of port investments includ-
ing a special study of a major new regional port in the
Istanbul/Marmara region (Phase II); and undertaking of
preliminary engineering design and detailed feasibility
studies of the new Marmara port or any other higher
priority port selected in Phase II (Phase III).
The project will substantially increase the efficiency of
Turkey's major ports by maximizing use of existing port
infrastructure. Together with other on-going ports infra-
structure development projects, it will provide sufficient
ports capacity to meet Turkey's traffic requirements up to
about 1985, especially for general cargo. It will also
help prevent recurrence of the severe ports congestion
This, document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
of 1975-76, which cost Turkey scarce foreign exchange
through congestion and for demurage charges. The core of
the project, the rehabilitation of the ports, is free
from any significant risk, although projected increases in
efficiency depend largely on the effectiveness of the
proposed training and managerial improvements which may
not fully materialize. Nevertheless, sensitivity analysis
indicates that even in the extreme case where only one
half of the general cargo traffic growth and improvements
on efficiency are realized the economic returns remain
satisfactory. The institution building features are more
long term and depend, in part, on parliamentary or general
policy action.
Estimated Cost:                                Local         Foreign          Total
---------- (US$ Million) --------
Equipment (including spare parts)          24.8           53.3            73.1
Civil Works                                13.3            7.2            20.5
Technical Assistance (including
training, consultants and
planning study)                          0.4             1.6            2.0
Subtotal                             38.5            62.1          100.6
Contingencies
Physical (civil works only)          2.7             1.5            4.2
Price                               39.4            11.4           55.0
Total                               30.6            75.0          155.6
Financing Plan:                                Local          Foreign         Total
---------- (US$ Million) --------
Bank                                        -             75.0            75.0
Goverrnment                                80.6            -              80.6
Total                               80.6            75.0          155.6
Estimated
Disbursement:                IBRD         FY     1980      1981      1982      1983
Annual               0.5     30.6      35.8        8.1
Cumulative           0.5     31.1      66.9      75.0
Rate of Return:               37 percent.
Appraisal Report:             Report No. 2277c-TU dated April 12., 1979
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$75.0 million to help fi-
nance the foreign exchange cost of a project to rehabilitate Turkey's ten
major public ports. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years
of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. The equivalent of about
US$50.8 and US$20.8 million would be on-lent respectively to the Turkish State
Railways (TCDD) and Maritime Bank (DB) for a term of 17 years, on the same
terms and conditions as the proposed loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976. The situation subsequently deteriorated,
culminating in a serious economic crisis. This Part analyzes these develop-
ments. (A fuller account may be found in the Economic Annex to the Report
and Recommendation of the President on the Erdemir Stage II Steel Project,
dated June 15, 1978.) It also describes the short and medium-term policy
initiatives of the Ecevit Government which took power in early 1978, and
cautiously assesses economic prospects. A special economic mission visited
Turkey in April 1979 to review the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). A com-
prehensive report on the medium-term outlook is being prepared based on
its findings.
Economic Structure and Causes of 1977 Crisis
3.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment to
rapid growth and modernization, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Laudable strides have also been made towards
meeting basic needs in such areas as education, health care, water supply,
and rural roads. This impressive record has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970
and most recently in 1977) by severe balance-of-payments crises. The recent
crisis has been the product partly of extraneous factors and partly of the
Turkish development strategy itself, which paid insufficient attention to the
structural weaknesses of the economy and perhaps exacerbated some of them.
4.        The emphasis of successive governments on industrialization doubled
the sector's share in total output between 1955 and 1977, but resulted in
comparative neglect of agricultural development, already hampered by inappro-
priate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts of
1/   This Part is identical to that in the President's Reports on the Grain
Storage and Thirteenth TSKB Projects.



Turkish industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so, a
strong emphasis so far on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has
resulted in high-cost production in certain sectors. Unselective protection
against competition from imports has also inhibited the development of an
industrial structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms
of location, natural resources and labor availability. One important con-
sequence of this, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to develop a
strong industrial export base, and has relied mainly instead on its tradi-
tional agricultural exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance
the imports of materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious moderni-
zation effort. This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of the
difficulty which Turkey has periodically experienced in reconciling rapid
growth with a viable external payments position.
5.        During the world recession of the mid 1970s, unlike many other
countries, the average annual real rate of GDP growth in Turkey was 7.2
percent. This includes 1977 when real GDP grew by only 4.4 percent, follow-
ing the economic crisis that year and shortages of power, imported inputs
and the like. Growth over this period was made possible by rising public
sector activity, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand that more than
offset the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased outflow
of payments for oil and other imports. The growth of output was therefore
constrained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and improved
inputs led to an average annual rate of growth of agricultural output of about
4.1 percent in the period 1970-77, while industrial output grew at about 9.2
percent--principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial
investment. The general pace of investment in Turkey also did not slacken
during the world recession of the mid 1970s. On the contrary, largely
as the result of an intensified public investment drive from 1975 onwards, the
share of fixed investment in GDP remained around 20 percent during 1973-78.
6.        In this period, employment was not at the forefront of development
objectives. Unemployment and underemployment were relatively high, totaling
about 11 percent of the labor force in 1970 and over 13 percent in 1977.
The underlying causes, aggravated by a sharp reduction in the emigration
rate since 1973, are a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of population growth
and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of production in the
modern sectors of agriculture and industry. The comparatively slow rate of
growth of employment has also had an adverse effect on the distribution of
income, although basic needs are largely met. The two main causes of this
inequality, however, are the large gap between agricultural and non-
agricultural labor productivity and the wide dispersion of farmers' incomes.
7.        During the mid 1970s, Turkey's external trading position deteriorated
markedly due to rapid increases in imports of goods. These tripled in value
between 1973 and 1977, reaching $5.8 billion. About half this increase was
due to rising world prices, including a four-fold rise in the price of oil,
which currently accounts for one third of the import bill. The other half was
due to a steep rise in the volume of imports.



8.        High import demand has been characteristic of Turkey in the 1970s,
and may partly be a "catching up" phenomenon. In 1970, after a decade
of strict import rationing, the ratio of imports to GDP was only 7 percent,
about half the average for countries of Turkey's size and stage of develop-
ment. By 1977, after several years of liberalization of import restrictions,
it reached 14 percent. This process was associated with increased imported
inputs in agriculture and changes in industrial structure and technology,
which rested growth on imported inputs. After 1973, the growth of imports
was accelerated by: a fall in the local currency price of imported goods
relative to domestic output, due to a rate of inflation which exceeded the
international inflation rate by more than the rate of depreciation of the
TL against other currencies; an absolute shortage of domestically produced
goods; an increase in the share of fixed investment in total expenditure; and
a tendency to build up imported stocks in anticipation of devaluation or
import restrictions.
9.        From 1970 to 1973, rising imports were more or less offset by rapid
expansion of exports--particularly manufactured exports such as cotton yarn
and fabric, leather products and processed food--and workers' remittances.
In value terms, merchandise exports increased from $588.5 million in 1970
to $1,317 million in 1973, or 31 percent per annum. Manufactured exports
increased even faster--from $100.3 million in 1970 to $443.4 million in 1973,
or by 64 percent per annum. In volume terms, they increased by an average
annual rate of 22 percent, a very high rate indeed. The increase in workers'
remittances was even more dramatic--up from $273 million in 1970 to $1,183
million in 1973, reaching a peak of $1.4 billion in 1974. Since 1973 however,
export performance has been weak and remittances also declined after 1974.
The value of exports of goods rose by 33 percent between 1974 and 1977, when
it reached $1.8 billion, mainly due to rising world prices; in volume terms,
they showed no upward trend. Thus by 1977, merchandise exports were only
one-third of the imports.
10.       The poor showing of exports between 1974-77, is partly attributable
to world recession. This not only affected industrial exports; it also
depressed Turkish agricultural exports such as hazelnuts, raisins and tobacco,
and industrial raw materials like cotton. The difficulties were aggravated by
two other factors: (a) agricultural support prices bore little relation to
world prices, and thus failed to provide incentives to farmers to increase
production of exportable commodities; and (b) this was compounded by a general
neglect of agricultural development, buoyant domestic demand for its produce
and ineffective administration of its export sales. More importantly, indus-
trial exports, presently only 7 percent of the value of industrial output,
were stifled by a more rapid increase of production costs in Turkey than in
her trading partners, which was insufficiently offset by periodic small
devaluations of the TL. Consequently, exporting, which had been lucrative in
the early 1970s, became less profitable, and potentially exportable production
was diverted to a booming and profitable domestic market.
11.       The current account balance moved from a surplus of $0.5 billion in
1973 to a deficit of $3.5 billion in 1977, because of a rapid deterioration



- 4 -
in the trade balance, besides a decline in workers' remittances from a peak of
$1.4 billion in 1974 to around $1 billion in 1977. One important cause of this
has been the restrictions on immigration imposed by Western European countries
in the face of growing domestic unemployment caused by the world recession.
The rate at which earnings were remitted also fell substantially. This partly
reflected the overvaluation of the TL, which induced workers to hold their
savings abroad or remit through unofficial channels.
12.       The large current account deficit was not matched by an increased
inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey had deliberately kept
both foreign private investment and private long-term borrowing to a minimum.
The gross inflow from official long-term borrowing during 1970-75 stagnated at
about $300 million per annum. Initially, this was due to a manageable need
for foreign finance, given the tremendous increase in workers' remittances in
the early 1970s. Subsequently, it was because of a lack of experience and
initiative on the part of successive governments to develop and tap new
sources of external borrowing, when faced with a decline in multilateral and
bilateral lending on concessional terms. While in 1976 and 1977, long-term
loan commitments rose to over $1 billion per annum, disbursements continued to
be slow because most loans were tied to specific projects, whose implementa-
tion was slow. Consequently, the overall balance of payments moved from a
surplus of $0.9 billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1977. It was
financed by running down the foreign exchange reserves and by various forms of
short-term borrowing, which by the end of 1977 totalled $6.5 billion.
13.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible Lira
Accounts (CLAs). It provided nearly $2 billion in 1975 and 1976. These are
deposits placed with Turkish banks by foreign commercial banks and non-
resident Turks, which were guaranteed until last year against exchange rate
risk, by the Central Bank. Another major source of finance was short-term
suppliers' credits, partly covered by export credit insurance in the export-
ing countries. A swap facility was also established with the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements, and a scheme whereby the Dresdner Bank took in time
deposits from Turkish workers in Germany, offered high interest rates, and
made the proceeds available to Turkey.  During 1977 however, foreign banks
became reluctant to rollover the outstanding stock of short-term debt, and
even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The Central Bank was
driven to delaying foreign exchange transfers on a large scale. The resulting
substantial accumulation of arrears, made it even harder to obtain new credits.
14.       The deterioration in the balance of payments position can also
be viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at demand management
and domestic resource mobilization, especially in the public sector. The
public sector deficit rose steadily from TL 6 billion (2 percent of GDP) in
1973 to TL 77 billion (9 percent of GDP) in 1977. This occurred despite a
creditable tax performance and was mainly due to a deterioration in the
financial position of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and in particular
of the operational SEEs which dominate the transport and energy sectors and



- 5 -
account for half the output of mining and manufacturing. Successive govern-
ments, in an effort to slow inflation, held the price increases of operational
SEEs below the rate at which their already high costs were rising, thus
transforming a TL 5 billion profit in 1973 into a TL 20 billion loss in 1977.
The scale of SEE investment was also greatly escalated, further widening the
gap between public sector savings and public sector investment. Most of the
increased deficit was financed by borrowing from the Central Bank, since
administered ceilings on interest rates made it hard to attract sufficient
purchasers for government bonds. As a result, and despite a large decline in
the foreign exchange reserves, the money supply increased rapidly, at an
average annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977.
15.       The rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale price index)
declined from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975, but rose to 24 percent
in 1977. Besides cost-push influences on the price level (including a power-
ful labor union movement and a farmer-oriented agricultural price support
policy), the recent trend also results from excess demand caused by the
enlargement of the public sector deficits and the private investment boom.
Recent Economic Programs and Performance
16.       Tentative stabilization measures to stem the resulting economic
crisis, taken by the coalition government of Mr. Demirel towards the end of
1977, did not go far enough and came too late. In early 1978, a new govern-
ment, with a small but working majority, came to power under Mr. Ecevit. It
purposefully set about taking painful, but essential, steps to restore order
in the chaotic economic house it inherited and build up the confidence of the
international financial community in Turkey's future. It swiftly formulated
a package of stabilization measures as part of the 1978 Budget and Annual
Program. This formed the basis of a Standby Agreement with the IMF in April,
1978. In summary, the short and medium term remedies applied by the Govern-
ment to solve the economic crisis contain four salient elements. First,
restraint of domestic demand relative to output, through increases in public
and private savings relative to domestic investment. Second, measures that
directly boost exports substantially, including the maintenance of competi-
tiveness, or that restrain imports. Third, sustained efforts to obtain a
substantial increase in medium and long-term external loans. Fourth, pari
passu with the rescheduling of the outstanding stock of short-term debts,
conversion of these debts into medium-term obligations, and exercise of
strict control over future short-term borrowing. UIltimately, considerable
restructuring of the economy to rectify imbalances in Turkey's current
foreign trade pattern, will be entailed.
17.       To raise domestic savings relative to domestic investment, the
Ecevit government, between March and May 1978, increased a wide range of
SEE prices and tariffs. In early September 1978, SEE prices for petroleum,
petroleum products and sugar were increased by 80 percent. All price in-
creases together were expected to add TL 54 billion to SEE revenues in a
full year. The Government also substantially raised the stamp duty on



- 6 -
imports, and proposed to the Parliament, a number of other tax revenue mea-
sures, including a large increase in motor vehicle, income, corporation and
municipal taxes, as part of a broader set of measures designed to enhance the
efficiency and equity of the fiscal system. To control public sector expendi-
tures, especially investment, it decided to concentrate on the completion of
existing projects and cut back on new projects, except in the bottleneck
energy and ports sectors, and for exports and such basic imported commodities
as steel and fertilizers.  In these ways, the Government aimed to markedly
reduce public sector deficits and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank. In conjunction with other limits on Central Bank lending agreed with
the IMF, these were expected to reduce the rate of growth of the money supply
and the availability of credit, so as to restrain investment and consumption.
To mobilize private savings, most interest rates, including those on govern-
ment bonds and the repatriated savings of migrant workers were increased.
18.       Despite the stringency of these politically difficult stabilisation
measures, the results were mixed. The consolidated budget deficit in 1978 is
officially estimated at about TL 34 billion, compared with TL 48 billion in
1977. But the rate of growth of the money supply in 1978 was 37 percent,
roughly the same as in 1977. Moreover, the price level rose very sharply
in 1978, even at the end of the year, the rate of inflation was around 50
percent per annum. Money wages also increased at an annual rate of over 50
percent, despite the Government's "social contract" with the largest trade
union federation in July 1978.
19.       To discourage imports and stimulate exports further, the TL was
devalued against the dollar three times between September 1977 and March 1978,
by a total of about 50 percent. In addition, it drifted downwards with the
dollar against other currencies. The effect of this devaluation on imports
was augmented by the increase in stamp duty in 1978 and in the short term,
also by government's decisions to reduce imports of investment goods and give
priority to imports of materials and spares needed to maintain, as far as
possible, output from existing installed capacity. This, together with the
shortage of foreign exchange, resulted in a drop in merchandise imports from
$5.8 billion in 1977 to about $4.6 billion in 1978. This compares with the $5
billion figure envisaged under the April 1978 Standby Agreement.
20.       As regards exports, the effects of the devaluations were partly
offset by a reduction in April 1978 of export rebates. In July 1978, these
rebates were increased again. As an additional financial incentive, the
Government accorded priority in the allocation of foreign exchange for the
purchase of imported inputs for export production and that of essential
goods for domestic sale. Exporters have also been given special permission
to finance their import requirements through acceptance credits. The degree
of priority accorded to exporters in the allocation of domestic credit
through the banking system was increased, as were the interest rate rebates
on domestic borrowing by exporters. An inter-ministerial Export Coordination
Committee set up to resolve the problems faced by exporters, has succeeded in
simplifying some export licensing and registration procedures. Export targets



have been set for SEEs and Agricultural Sales Cooperatives. The Government
took prompt steps to earn foreign exchange by disposing of large existing
stocks of exportable commodities, notably wheat. It also took steps to:
restrain domestic demand through its fiscal, monetary and price policies,
help prevent diversion of potential export goods for domestic use, and improve
competitiveness through exchange rate adjustments. In response, the value of
exports rose by 28 percent in 1978 to around $2.25 billion. But this was
below the $2.6 billion anticipated in the Standby Agreement.
21.       With these developments in foreign trade and a marginal decrease
in worker remittances over the 1977 level, current account deficit dropped
markedly to an estimated $1.7 billion in 1978. This compares favorably to
$3.5 billion in 1977 and the $1.8 billion deficit anticipated in the Standby
Agreement. This substantial reduction, achieved mainly by severe curbing of
imports, and vigorous efforts to raise fresh medium and long-term funds along
with the rescheduling of existing debt (para. 23) led to an improved balance
of payments position. Nevertheless, the overall 1978 deficit is estimated at
about $900 million, some $150 million more than that envisaged in the Standby
Agreement. On a net basis, it was financed by $180 million in IMF drawings
(para. 22), $340 million in petroleum and Eurodollar loans, $145 million from
the Dresdner Bank scheme and the remaining $235 million from various commer-
cial banking sources.
22.       The Standby Agreement provided for the immediate withdrawal of about
$89 million in compensatory financing. In addition, since the Witteveen
Facility was not in operation, Turkey was eligible to draw up to 150 percent
of its quota, amounting to about $360 million, under the Exceptional Circum-
stances clause. This entitled Turkey to withdraw $60 million in May 1978.
A further drawing of $48 million was made in September, following renewed
discussions between the Government and the IMF concerning short-term economic
developments and prospects. Further discussions with the IMF to revise the
stabilization package in light of developments since April, prior to the
release of the remaining tranches of about $252 million, took place in
December.
23.       Since April 1978, Turkey has taken steps to cope with its large
stock of short-term debt ($6.5 billion at the end of 1977). The exchange rate
guarantee on new CLAs with a maturity under one year was removed, stemming new
inflows of these deposits. It also secured, from the members of the OECD
Consortium for Turkey, a rescheduling of approximately $1.2 billion in interest
and principal payments falling due between January 1977 and June 1979, on
public bilateral debt and private debt guaranteed by bilateral export finan-
cing agencies. The terms were 2 years grace followed by 4 years to repay for
short maturities, and 3 years grace with 5 years repayment for longer-term
maturities; the interest rates were to be negotiated bilaterally. Bilateral
agreements have now been signed with all countries concerned. However, nearly
$1 billion of unguaranteed trade debts remain to be rescheduled. Finally,
negotiations have been completed with some 220 commercial banks involved, to
consolidate about $3.0 billion of outstanding short-term liabilities (includ-
ing most of the CLAs, arrears on CLAs, reimbursement credits and banker's
credits) into obligations with a maturity of 7 years, including 3 years of



- 8 -
grace, at an interest rate 1.75 percent above LIBOR. In view of the complexi-
ties and numbers of banks involved, progress on this was slow. But reschedul-
ing agreements are ready and are expected to be signed after the ongoing
discussions with the IMF have been completed. While all these efforts have
eased the debt servicing burden for 1978 and 1979, it will cause a substantial
bulge in debt service payments in the early 80s.
24.       Concurrently, the Government pursued new sources of medium and
long-term external finance, including the Middle East. In response to this
initiative: Germany provided program credits of $75 million and project
credits of $72 million; the US, Austria and Belgium provided program loans
totalling $70 million; Libya provided a program credit of $100 million and
another $300 million spread over five years to finance oil imports; Iran
provided a short-term credit of $150 million for oil imports; an agreement
was also signed with the Saudi Fund for $250 million in project aid; Austria,
Norway and Finland provided project credits; trade agreements were signed
with Romania, Bulgaria and U.S.S.R. Another indication of Turkey's change
of direction in seeking external financing vigorously, is the engagement for
the first time of internationally-reputed investment firms to assist in the
rescheduling exercises and the tapping of new sources of private capital in
Europe and U.S. As a first step, in conjunction with the commercial bank
rescheduling, a fresh loan of about $400 million is expected to be provided by
a group of banks, with disbursement contingent on a new Standby Agreement.
25.       The discussions begun in December 1978 between Turkey and IMF on
a revised stabilization program were interrupted because of difficulties in
reaching agreement on certain important policy issues. They have since been
resumed (see para 27). The discussions focussed on the need to continue the
austerity measures initiated in early 1978 and to strengthen efforts to cope
with excessive monetary growth, sagging SEE finances and the high inflation
rate. It is evident that progress in these areas is complementary to stricter
control of imports, tight control over short-term borrowings and the growth of
arrears, and the continuation of foreign trade policies and measures directed
to improve the balance of payments position further.
26.       Against this background, adopting the pattern followed in early
1978, the Government announced its revised stabilization program in mid-March
1979 and amplified it further in early April. To improve the financial
position of SEEs, increased prices of sugar (34 percent), iron and steel (41
percent), cement (63 percent), gasoline (84 percent), fuel oil (80 percent),
diesel fuel (82 percent) and kerosene (110 percent), were announced. These
prices are now well above their imported costs at the current rate of exchange.
The Government estimates that these increases will together, yield an addi-
tional TL 80 billion in the current Turkish fiscal year and significantly
reduce the SEE deficits, despite inflation in costs and wages (although the
latter will be restrained by new limits on the growth of SEE employment).
To ensure more effective mobilization and allocation of fiscal resources,
interest rates for both deposits and lending have been substantially augmented.
For time deposits, increased rates range from 12 percent for deposits between
6-12 months, to 24 percent for those between 3-4 years; in addition, the



- 9 -
repatriated savings of migrant workers will receive an interest premium of 10
percentage points (15 points for deposits above 3 years). The interest rate
for medium and long-term loans have been considerably increased: in the
agricultural sector from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; for small-scale indus-
trial enterprises from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; and for general lending in
industrial and other sectors from 16 to 20 percent. There is no ceiling in
respect of loans extended by development and investment banks using funds
acquired through the domestic bond issues of at least 5 years maturity.
However, interest rate rebates have been increased for export oriented enter-
prises, and for those established in the poorer areas of Turkey.
27.       To improve the balance of payments, a number of steps were taken.
The TL was devalued against the US Dollar by about 6 percent to TL 26.5 =
US$1. Pari passu, a multiple exchange rate regime was introduced for the
first time, under which a more favorable exchange rate with a prermium of 40
percent (TL 37.1 = US$1) became applicable for foreign tourists, workers'
remittances and repatriated savings. This favorable rate carried an addi-
tional premium, bringing the effective rate to TL 47.1, if transactions took
place up to May 9, and to TL 42.1 for those made between May 10 and June 9,
1979. In addition, a significant development was the creation of an officially
sanctioned, but still limited, parallel market in respect of manufactured and
mineral exports. Specifically, Turkish industrial exporters could retain 50
percent of their foreign exchange earnings and either use this to finance
their own import requirements or transfer it to other industrialists, at
whatever price it fetched. All these measures announced in April appear to go
in the desirable direction, although it was clear that further adjustments in
the exchange regime would need to be introduced in due course to correct the
over-valuation of the official exchange rate. In mid-April, the Managing
Director of the IMF met the Turkish Finance Minister in Zurich and agreed that
discussions on a revised standby agreement should resume as soon as possible.
An IMF mission visited Turkey during late April and mid-May for this purpose.
The discussions concentrated upon the current developments and the salient
elements of the economic policies that could become the basis for a standby
agreement. While no formal agreement was possible, an understanding was
reached that the negotiations should be adjourned for a short while, to allow
the OECD-sponsored pledging session to take place, and the talks should be
resumed thereafter. A successful pledging session took place in Paris on May
30, 1979. The pledges were made, subject to an early agreement on a new
Standby Agreement between Turkey and the IMF, the negotiations for which
resumed in Paris on May 31. The various member governments pledged a total of
$661 million as special aid, and $245 million as special export credit aid to
Turkey, and are considering further rescheduling of the official bilateral
debt and guaranteed export credits to ease the debt servicing burden in coming
years. In addition, an early agreement with the IMF would also trigger the
provision of new fresh commercial bank loans of $400 million (para. 24),
besides an agreement for the rescheduling of the outstanding short-term
liabilities owed to the commercial banks by Turkey. On June 11, Turkey again
revised the multiple exchange rate system introduced in April and devalued the
TL further to TL 47.1 = US$1, with a rate of TL 35 = US$1 for oil and fertil-
izer imports and traditional agricultural exports. Other complementary
measures are expected.



- 10 -
28.       For 1979, pending agreement with the IMF, the projections of the
balance of payment can only be tentative. However, based on cautiously
optimistic assumptions concerning exports, worker remittances and capital
inflows, and taking into account the recent increases in international oil
prices, the realization of a volume of imports similar to that achieved in
1978 would entail a foreign exchange gap of about $1.5 billion.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
29.       The Fourth Plan was approved by the Turkish Parliament in November
1978. Its important feature is the strong emphasis on the balance of payments
and in particular, on the promotion of exports. The export thrust is one of
the cornerstones of Government's medium-term development strategy, whose
success will be crucial to the restoration and maintenance of Turkey's credit-
worthiness in the medium-term future.
30.       The Government's objective is to increase the volume of merchandise
exports by a factor of almost two and a half between 1978 and 1983. This
implies a real export growth rate averaging around 18 percent per annum during
the Plan period. This is expected to be achieved broadly, in the following
manner. The volume of agricultural exports is expected to grow at an annual
rate of 6 percent, and that of manufactured products by an average annual
rate of over 30 percent starting from about $700 million in 1978. About 40
percent of the latter is expected to come from food and beverages, textiles
and clothing, and leather products; another 40 percent from intermediate goods
such as rubber and plastics products, chemicals, cement, glass and ceramics,
and basic metals; the remaining 20 percent is expected to consist of consumer
durables, capital goods, and other products of the metal-working industries.
31.       Preliminary Bank projections suggest that the share of unprocessed
agricultural and mined products in total exports is likely to be higher than
envisaged in the Plan, and that the overall export target, though ambitious,
is feasible, provided that the present widespread commitment to export growth
continues to be translated into appropriate policies. In addition, the
Government intends to study the effects on export incentives of the existing
system of protection, with a view to making appropriate changes when the
balance of payments situation permits; and it has already begun to bring the
relative support prices of different agricultural commodities more closely
into line with relative world prices. There will also be a drive to increase
invisible exports, particularly earnings from transportation, tourism and
civil engineering contracts abroad.
32.       The other Plan targets include an average annual real GDP growth
rate of 8 percent, which seems overly optimistic, especially in view of the
3-4 percent growth rate achieved in 1978, and the prospect of a similar
performance in 1979. Efforts not to allow unemployment to increase over the
1977 level, is now - for the first time in any Plan - a specific development
objective. Real fixed investment is expected to grow at an average annual
rate of 12 percent (27 percent allocated to industry, 27 percent to energy



- 11 -
and transportation and 12 percent to agriculture). Gross domestic savings
are expected to rise from 16 to 22 percent of GNP, implying a marginal
savings ratio of 35 percent, which seems over-optimistic in view of the
experience of the last two Plan periods, in which the realised marginal savings
ratio was only 12 percent, largely due to poor savings performance in the
public sector. Significantly, in the Fourth Plan, the main contributor to
the rapid growth of savings is expected to be the public sector, whose reve-
nues are expected to increase in real terms at an average annual rate of 12
percent, compared with a real growth rate of 9 percent for public consumption.
Possible Outlook for the Future
33.       If the export drive is successful and imports are appropriately
restrained, and assuming significant growth of workers' remittances as a
result of the recent exchange rate changes and interest rates for remittances,
it should be possible, despite the increasing burden of interest charges on
rescheduled debts, to keep the balance of payments current account deficit to
an average of about $1.5 billion dollars per year during the Plan period. To
finance such deficits and amortize the considerable external debt, it will
also be necessary for Turkey to continue its efforts to achieve a much higher
level of medium and long-term borrowing than in the past, both in commitment
and disbursement terms. But this depends on the assessment of Turkey's
creditworthiness, which in turn hinges on a successful export effort and
careful debt management.
34.       The extensive short-term borrowing of 1975-77 greatly increased
Turkey's external debt, adversely affected its previously rather attractive
maturity structure, and caused a sharp rise in debt service payments. At
the end of 1978, total external indebtedness amounted to approximately $13
billion. Of this, $5.5 billion was medium and long-term debt. About one-
fourth of it was held by international organizations, mainly the Bank ($836
million, plus $842 million committed but undisbursed) and the European Invest-
ment Bank; and about one-half by foreign governments and government agencies,
notably those of the United States, Germany, Canada and the Soviet Union.
The remaining $7.5 billion consisted of short-term liabilities of various
sorts. If the consolidation arrangements finalized with the commercial banks
and creditor countries are fully implemented, about $4.1 billion of short-term
debt will be converted into medium and long-term debt. To summarize, these
consolidations consist of: (a) about $3.0 billion to be rescheduled by
commercial banks (para. 23); (b) guaranteed suppliers credits of about $700
million under the terms of the OECD sponsored agreement of May 1978 (para.
23); (c) another $100 million of short-term credits to be refinanced by CMEA
countries; and (d) refinancing of $350 million of oil credit owed to Iraq.
35.       Turkey's debt management initiatives should help restore a more
attractive maturity structure to the external debt, by transforming a good
portion of the short-term liabilities into medium-term obligations. However,
a relatively high debt service ratio over the medium-term must be anticipated
as a result of the large short-term debts and the rather hard terms available



- 12 -
to Turkey. In 1977, debt service payments, including interest on short-term
debt, amounted to 20.2 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances. In 1978, after making allowance for the rescheduled
service payments, this ratio is estimated to have risen to around 25 percent.
In subsequent years it will increase further, since Turkey has to take on
new borrowings to maintain sound economic growth. Taking these factors into
account, the debt service ratio is likely to peak in the early 1980s to a high
level of about 40 percent, before it begins to decline. This, however, should
represent the culmination of the financial consequences of the present crisis
and should be manageable, provided the export drive is sustained. Thus,
although the balance of payments situation will remain tight in the medium-
term future, given sound economic and fiscal policies and careful debt man-
agement which the present Government shows determination to pursue, Turkey
continues to have a substantial capacity to service long-term borrowing, and
remains creditworthy for such financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
36.       Prior to 1970, Bank Group assistance was limited and intermittent.
However, the success of Turkey's 1970 stabilization program, permitted larger
and continuing lending. To date, the Bank/IDA have lent $1,814 million for
54 projects. Agriculture accounts for 28 percent of the funds lent, indus-
try and DFCs for 37 percent, power for 21 percent and urban development,
transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
April 30, 1979, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
37.       Implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
But in the public sector, political uncertainty, limited coordination among
agencies and staffing problems have resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between Turkey
and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. Since up to end 1977, these resulted
in modest improvements, the situation was reviewed with the new Ecevit Govern-
ment in March 1978, and further discussed during my visit in April 1978.
Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level coordination team for Bank
projects. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving realistic
implementation and disbursement targets, and reviewed possible changes in
sector policy covenants which because of Turkish laws and practices con-
strained effective project performance. As of January 31, 1979, disbursements
increased to 72 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in June
1975. The encouraging progress and constructive cooperation which has
now become manifest allow cautious optimism that performance will gradually
improve further, permitting expansion of the Bank's lending.
38.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn or save foreign exchange, through promotion of
industrial and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment



- 13 -
opportunities and living standards, through rural and urban development; (c)
lagging public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved manage-
ment and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure
posing bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the
Government on how its lending can best contribute to the new Plan's objectives,
especially export promotion, without being handicapped by past policy and
institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and industry remain the key
sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, rural
development, agricultural credit and exports; in industry (including DFCs),
the emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement these efforts.
39.       A Program Loan and the Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Engineering
loan were approved in November 1978. The other project being pre-ented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year will assist with grain storage. Projects
being processed for the next two years include the second fruit and vegetable,
Erzurum rural development, the fifth livestock, a thirteenth loan operation for
TSKB, private and public sector textiles rationalization, and fertilizer pro-
duction projects, besides those for alleviation of air pollution in Ankara (an
engineering loan), transport and sewerage development in Istanbul, secondary
oil recovery and employment. In addition, the exceptional economic circum-
stances being faced by Turkey, require further support for the financing of
critical imports. The early conclusion of a new Standby Arrangement with the
IMF and its effective implementation, and the creditable performance under the
first program loan, would enable us to consider a second program loan in
FY80.
40.       At the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 15 percent. Its share
of estimated total external debt (including short-term obligations) was about
7 percent. The gradual conversion of much of the short-term debt into medium
and long-term debt, will cause the Bank's share of medium and long-term debt
to fall sharply to around 10 percent by 1980. Thereafter, assuming the cur-
rently projected increase in Bank lending, the share would increase. The
Bank's share of service payments on medium and long-term debt is expected to
follow a similar path, dropping from 12 percent in 1977 to about 8 percent in
1980, but rising thereafter.
41.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston
rings and cylinder liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of
April 30, 1979, gross IFC commitments totalled $206 million, of which $105
million were still held by IFC. In March 1979, IFC approved a $31 million
loan (of which $11 million for a participant) and $4 million equity investment
in an export-oriented glass project. Additional investment opportunities are
being pursued.



- 14 -
PART III - THE PORTS SUB-SECTOR AND ITS INSTITUTIONAL NEEDS
Introduction
42.       Turkey's 7,300 km coastline is served by over 75 public or private
ports. The ten major public ports, which handle a substantial portion of its
foreign trade and shipping, are included for rehabilitation under the proposed
project. They are: Trabzon and Samsun on the Black Sea, the two Istanbul
ports of Salipazari (on the European side) and Haydarpasa (on the Asian side),
Derince and Bandirma on the Marmara Sea, Izmir on the Aegean Sea and Antalya,
Mersin and Iskenderun on the Mediterranean (Map 13702). Besides these, some
30 smaller public or municipal ports serve domestic trade and shipping needs,
while 35 specialized ports are owned by industrial complexes to handle their
own needs. Over 90 percent of Turkey's foreign trade and 10 percent of its
domestic trade is served by ships, which use various Turkish ports. In 1977,
cargo traffic totalled 37 million tons, consisting of 20 million tons of oil,
10 million tons of dry bulk cargo and 7 million tons of general cargo. Of
this, public (including municipal) ports handled 35 percent of the oil, 45
percent of the dry bulk and 90 percent of the general cargo. Of these public
ports, the ten major ones included in the project handled 30 percent of the
oil, 38 percent of the dry bulk, and about 85 percent of the general cargo.
Since most of Turkey's high value imports and exports are included in the
"general cargo" category, the public ports of Turkey - especially the ten
project ports - are crucial to its foreign trade.
43.       The sustained growth in Turkey's foreign trade in this decade, has
imposed a heavy burden on its port facilities, especially on the 10 project
ports. The total tonnage handled grew from about 12 million tons in 1970
to a peak of 16 million tons in 1977, while port capacity declined due to
deteriorating equipment. Although the total cargo handled in 1978, registered
a decline to 14 million tons due to import restrictions resulting from the
country's severe economic crisis, it is clear that as the economy gradually
recovers in the next two to three years, the foreign trade volume will pass
the 1977 peak and impose further strain on the country's port capacity. The
proposed project has been appraised using projections of Turkey's foreign
trade somewhat more conservative than the most recent Bank assessment (see
paragraph 31 above). These projections assume: (a) the volume of imports
will reach the level attained in 1977 only in 1982 and thereafter increase by
8 percent per annum up to 1985; and (b) the average annual growth of exports
in real terms will be about 12 percent between 1978 and 1985, instead of
the 18 percent foreseen by the Plan. On this basis, it is estimated that the
total cargo handled at the 10 project ports would increase to 17.6 million
tons in 1981 and 23.8 million tons in 1985. Of this, general cargo traffic
should increase from 4.8 million tons in 1978 to 5.8 million tons in 1981, and
nearly 8 million tons in 1985.
44.       Turkish ports, including the project ports, are equipped with essen-
tially obsolete equipment. The situation is aggravated by inefficient operat-
ing methods. The ports are therefore hard put to meet even current needs
effectively. Moreover, in 1976/1977, when general cargo traffic reached its



- 15 -
peak, Turkey had to pay heavy demmurage charges, amounting in 1976 to some
$10 million in the two Istanbul ports alone. Even under the extreme assump-
tion that the growth rates of cargo will be only one-half of those summarized
in paragraph 43 above, the present port facilities (including the project
ports) could present a serious bottleneck to development, without rehabilita-
tion and renewal. In addition, there is a need to improve coordination
of port administration (especially in regions like Istanbul where there are
more than one port), planning and financial arrangements. Specific steps in
these areas are discussed in succeeding paragraphs in the context of the ten
project ports, because of the preponderant role these ports play in the
subsector. In this context, the Government and the Bank both recognize that
a project to rehabilitate and modernize these ports physically, will be of
greater relevance if it also focusses on correcting some of the institutional
needs of the subsector in the near-term, while laying a sound basis for
initiating longer-term improvements.
Port Operational Bottlenecks
45.       The present operating problems in the project ports stem largely
from: (i) a severe shortage of modern cargo-handling equipment and floating
craft, compounded on inadequate maintenance, partly due to a lack of spare
parts; (ii) insufficient and inadequately maintained open and covered storage
areas, with usable storage areas restricted by an accumulation of old and
abandoned cargo not cleared through customs; and (iii) relatively untrained
port labor and outdated port management techniques. The productivity of
existing equipment is low (about 50 percent), about one-half of the existing
shore equipment has a nominal lifting capacity of only 1 to 3 tons but has
been down-rated to about 1.5 tons and cargo is improperly handled and stored
with a high incidence of cargo damage. The efficient movement of cargo is
further hampered by the improper use of vehicle and equipment lanes for stor-
age purposes. The cargo throughput is, therefore, only about 300-450 tons
per shipday, about 50 percent of generally accepted international standards.
46.       The project directly addresses these problems.  In addition, a
recent decree permits the removal of cargo considered abandoned in port
storage areas or not cleared through customs within two months of arrival.
Once fully implemented, this new policy is expected to greatly alleviate the
constraints on storage capacity. To expedite implementation of this decree
in the project ports, agreement was reached that the Project Coordination
Committee (described in para 64) will be responsible for ensuring the removal
of old cargo from the project ports within a reasonable time period. To
monitor removal and identify problems, TCDD and DB, the port operating agen-
cies, will prepare for the Committee, by June 30, 1979 lists of the six month
old cargo in their ports and a timetable for their removal (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4 Part IA).
47.       Lack of consistent and reliable port statistics and operating infor-
mation hinders effective management and makes it difficult to identify ineffi-
ciencies and take corrective action. DB and TCDD have therefore agreed that
by January 1, 1980, they will commence compiling port operational statistics



- 16 -
on a uniform basis and, in consultation with the Bank, establish adequate
efficiency indicators to monitor improvements in operations. By the same
date, the Ministry of Transportation will begin to compile and analyze port
statistics on a national basis. To ensure that data collection commences as
agreed, the units will be established and staffed appropriately by September
30, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10 and Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
Port Organization and Management
48.       The administration of various ports in Turkey is split among several
agencies. The administration of public ports handling general cargo is
divided between two SEEs: TCDD administers the ports of Haydarpasa (Istanbul),
Derince, Samsun, Mersin, Iskenderun, and Bandirma; while DB administers
Antalya, Salipazari (Istanbul), Izmir, Trabzon and six other smaller ports.
The situation is aggravated by the fact that the primary activities of TCDD
and DB are not ports, but respectively, railways and passenger shipping/ship-
yards. This division of responsibility between DB and TCDD and the dilution
of attention to ports within each of the organizations, results in a lack of
coordination in port operations. It particularly hampers the efficient util-
ization of resources of neighboring ports, coordination of ship unloading and
loading schedules, standardization of equipment and pooling of spare parts.
The problem is particularly severe in Istanbul, where the two major ports
flanking the Bosporus, are run, one by TCDD and the other by DB. Construction
of major port investments are largely carried out by a third organization, the
Ministry of Public Works.
49.       Under the proposed project a number of interim measures are pro-
vided, to improve coordination within the existing framework. Agreement has
been reached on the following measures: (i) the standardization of equipment
and spare parts initiated by the project, will be extended by January 1, 1981,
to all new port equipment; (ii) common DB/TCDD training programs initiated
under the project will be continued; (iii) the introduction by January 1,
1982, of common costing and accounting procedures for DB and TCDD ports; and
(iv) administrative arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, will be introduced
by January 1, 1981 to coordinate port operations for the two Istanbul ports
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c) and Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
50.       As a long-term solution, the Government is currently considering
creating new port institutional arrangements.  A first draft proposal by the
Ministry of Transportation tentatively envisaged a national authority respon-
sible for: (i) the operation of all ports, (ii) the establishment, as needed,
of separate administrative entities under the aegis of that authority to
operate individual ports or groups of ports, (iii) setting of port tariffs,
with approval of the Ministry of Transportation, and (iv) coordinating port
planning on a national basis. While the proposal is in harmony with the
interim measures referred to in paragraph 49, and has the virtue of creating
an organization solely concerned with ports, the draft proposal is tentative
and several major issues remain unresolved, including: the legal status of
the organization - particularly whether it should be a semi autonomous govern-
ment department or an SEE, the degree of local financial and administrative
autonomy, and the scope of its responsibilities. Moreover it is not clear



- 17 -
that a national authority, as against regional or local authorities, is the
appropriate solution in Turkey given the geographical dispersion of the ports
and the problems experienced with other centralized agencies.
51.        In view of the importance of this critical institutional step, it is
prudent that Turkey move on this matter with measured pace and deliberation
to ensure the new institutions are established on a basis that are sound and
workable in the Turkish environment. During negotiations, possible approaches
to the new institution were discussed and an understanding was reached on a
timetable for reaching a solution. Revised proposals for the new institutional
arrangements for ports, reflecting the views of all concerned ministries will
be submitted, for an exchange of views, to the Bank by the Ministry of Tran-
sportation before March 31, 1980. They will thereafter be promptly finalized
or presented to Parliament, if required. Agreement was reached that within
18 months after finalization of the legal steps for establishing .he new port
arrangements, the Government will prepare a comprehensive implementation plan
and, thereafter, take steps to establish and make them fully operational
within a total of 36 months from approval of the proposals (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06(a) and (b)). The proposed project includes about 12 man/months
of technical assistance for the preparation of this plan.
Port Finance
52.       Port revenues are comprised of:  (i) tariffs charged by DB and TCDD
for port services, such tariffs constituting about 56 percent of total port
revenues; and (ii) an additional dock due expressed as a 5 percent ad valorem
duty on imports, recovered on all goods handled at their ports. Overall, DB
and TCDD port revenues would be more than sufficient to cover their port opera-
tions and that small part of port investment which they undertake from their
own funds, if these revenues were to be made available for the port functions
of these two organizations. Major new port investments are normally financed
by the Government through the Ministry of Public Works budget. However, since
part of the port revenues are diverted to help cover losses incurred on DB's
and TCDD's other activities, DB and TCDD ports operations do not presently
have sufficient funds to adequately cover maintenance and upkeep.
53.       To ensure adequate cash allocations from current revenues to cover
the current costs of DB and TCDD port operations, agreement was reached that
TCDD and DB will allow their port departments to retain from port revenues,
funds sufficient to cover their operating expenses (including adequate
maintenance), debt service, and a reasonable annual portion of their future
capital expenditures. Until the new cost related tariffs, described below,
are introduced, the latter will be at least the current level of investment
expenditures financed from their own sources, about $1 million equivalent each
for DB and TCDD. In the short run, additional investment funds will not be
needed in these organizations and because of the overall deficits in these
organizations, it is unrealistic to expect major adjustments until port costs
have been reviewed and new port tariffs introduced. Because the Government
controls the tariffs of DB's and TCDD's other activities as well, agreement
was also reached that the Government will take all the necessary steps to



- 18 -
enable DB and TCDD to meet these cash requirements, including, if necessary,
by interim increases in port tariffs (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 and Project
Agreement, Section 2.09(b)).
54.       The dock due, while belonging to the ports and presently providing
about 44 percent of port revenues is not directly related to any particular
service rendered by the ports, either to cargo or to ships. The result is that
port users, such as foreign ship owners, are not paying their fair share of
the cost of port services, and importers are encouraged to use other forms of
transport on which the dues are not charged.  It was initially introduced more
than 40 years ago to enable the ports to balance their budgets. Later, with
the increasing overall activities of the two organizations, the duty was
increased and has been utilized by them in large measure, to finance deficits
in their non-port operations and reduce the amount of the Government budget
subsidies they would otherwise require. It is thus desirable to review the
structure of port tariffs, their relation to the cost of port services and the
role of the dock dues.
55.       The key long-term financial reform is the proposed establishment of
port tariffs related to actual port costs. To prepare for such cost-related
tariffs, the project provides for 16 man months of technical assistance to
help carry out a detailed study of port costs and present port tariffs and
dock dues, leading to proposals for an appropriate tariff structure. Another
study will prepare for the revaluation of port assets. Agreement was reached
that the studies will be completed by October 31, 1980 (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, Part IIC(d)). In addition, assurances were obtained that revalued
assets will be introduced into DB and TCDD financial statements, at least
on a pro forma basis, by the end of 1981 and will be updated at least every
three years thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
56.       Agreement was also reached that before January 1, 1982, port tariffs
related to port costs will be introduced, sufficient to generate port revenues
covering the project ports cash requirements referred to in paragraph 53 and
a larger share of the investment needs: i.e. a 35 percent portion of their
future average annual capital expenditures including not only the relatively
small investments of DB and TCDD, but also the much larger investments in
these ports now financed by the Government. In the event tariffs are insuffi-
cient to meet the criteria alone, a portion of the ad valorem dock duty may
continue to be assigned for this purpose (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09).
Port Investment Planning
57.       Responsibility for port planning and investment is also fragmented
among several Ministries and agencies. The State Planning Organization and
the Ministry of Finance decide overall priorities and investment allocation.
The Ministry of Transportation has broad statutory responsibility for the
sector, and within it, the Transport Coordination Agency (TCA) has built up
considerable technical experience in transport planning and research. But TCA
lacks the authority to effectively coordinate sector planning. The Ministry



- 19 -
of Public Works through its Directorate for Harbor Construction (LI), is
responsible for execution of major new port investments. In practice, it also
influences ports investment decisions. However, neither TCA nor the other
operating agencies have sufficient staff to conduct sub-sector and project
planning and feasibility studies of major port investment proposals.
58.       Planning in the ports subsector has therefore suffered from a lack
of national perspective and inadequate economic analysis of investments. The
Government has currently under consideration a number of major port invest-
ments, for which priorities cannot be established without a proper national
framework. This is particularly true in the Istanbul Metropolitan Region
which accounts for a large share of shipping traffic and where the existing
two ports are a major factor in urban congestion. Turkey's ports investment
program for the Fourth Five Year Plan concentrates on rehabilitation and com-
pletion of ongoing investments. In addition to the proposed project, these
include the completion of on-going berth construction in Izmir, Mersin and
Haydarpasa (the Asian side of Istanbul). Subsequent ports investments have
not yet been selected, in part due to the recognition of the need for proper
planning.
59.       The proposed project therefore includes technical assistance for
a ports planning effort in three phases, to assess future port capacity
requirements up to the year 2000, prepare a national port master plan in-
cluding a special study of the Istanbul/Marmara region and undertake prelim-
inary engineering of a new port. Agreement was reached that the Government
will not initiate new port projects costing in excess of $10 million equiva-
lent, outside of the investments already included in the Fourth Plan, before
reviewing with the Bank the results of the master plan study, expected to be
completed by mid-1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). Assurances were also
obtained that TCA will be provided with sufficient staff by January 1, 1982,
to enable them to continue to update the master plan (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06(c) (iii)). Pending the results of these studies, the proposed project
provides for critical investments needed to operate existing infrastructure,
replace essential equipment and meet in the immediate future the expected
traffic growth and prevent the congestion which would otherwise beset port
operations from about 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
60.       The proposed project was prepared by the Transport Coordination
Agency (TCA), the Turkish Maritime Bank (DB) and the Turkish State Railways
(TCDD), with guidance provided by Bank missions in January, May and September
1977. The project was appraised in May 1978. Negotiations were held in
Washington in March 1979 with a Turkish delegation headed by Alledin Yoruk,
Acting Economic Counselor, Turkish Embassy, and included representatives of
the Treasury, TCA, DB, TCDD and the Directorate for Harbor Construction (LI).



- 20 -
Project Objectives and Description
61.       The main objectives of the project are to:  (i) rehabilitate and
modernize the said ten major public ports to substantially increase their
efficiency by replacing old and obsolete equipment and providing critically
needed training in modern cargo handling and port management; (ii) facilitate
improved financial and operational management of DB and TCDD ports in the
interim until long-term institutional improvements are fostered and completed
in Turkey; and (iii) strengthen and complete ongoing ports planning activities
to provide a sound basis for future ports investment decisions.
62.        The main components are:  (i) provision of cargo-handling equipment
and floating craft for the project ports - including tugboats and harbor
service boats, a 200 ton capacity floating crane and spare parts for new
equipment and for the rehabilitation of existing equipment; (ii) paving and
surfacing of open storage areas, general ports rehabilitation, construction of
storage sheds, and dredging of harbor areas; (iii) construction and equipping
of a 300 ton lifting-capacity slipway in Iskenderun and a 100 ton slipway in
Antalya for repair of floating craft; (iv) training for ports managerial and
operational staff, including stevedores and equipment operators; and (v)
carrying out of a ports sub-sector planning study in three phases (para. 60).
Details of the project are summarized in the attached Loan and Project Summary.
A Staff Report entitled "Turkey Ports Rehabilitation Project (No. 2227c-TU),
dated April 12, 1979 is being distributed separately.
Project Cost and Financing
63.        The total project cost (including an average 50 percent price and 4
percent physical contingency on base costs) is estimated at about $155 million.
Of this, $75.0 million, or about 48 percent, is in foreign exchange. The Bank
loan will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost. All local costs
will be met by the Government, since DB and TCDD presently have no funds to
finance the investments for their respective project ports. The Government
will onlend about $50.8 million to TCDD and $20.8 million to DB on the same
terms as the Bank loan. TCDD and DB will bear the foreign exchange risk on
the subsidiary loans. The Government will retain about $3.4 million for TCA
technical assistance and LI equipment. The funds are being channelled
through the Government, rather than lent directly to DB and TCDD because of
the involvement of several agencies and the need for coordination. The
signing of two subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between
the Government and TCDD and DB respectively, will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). The Government has requested
funds from UNDP to finance an additional $1 million of technical assistance
for project training.
Project Implementation
64.       With the exception of the planning component, for which TCA will be
responsible, project implementation will be the responsibility of TCDD and DB,
assisted as necessary by the Directorate of Harbor Construction (LI) in the



- 21 -
Ministry of Public Works. A Project Coordinating Committee will be estab-
lished by the Ministry of Transportation chaired by the Ministry's Under-
secretary or Deputy Undersecretary, to coordinate project execution. It will
include at least one senior representative at the level of Deputy General
Director of TCDD, DB, TCA and LI. A Project Secretariat will be established
within TCA and staffed on a full time basis, with a training coordinator,
ports engineer and other support personnel as may be required. It will
support the Committee. The TCA representative to the Committee will serve
as Secretary to the Committee. Three technical working groups under the
Committee will deal with equipment procurement, civil works and training.
Assurances were obtained that the Committee will be established by June 30,
1979 and the Project Secretariat by August 31, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Schedule
4 Part I A and B). The Committee will meet at least once every 3 months, or
whenever critical matters affecting project implementation require high-level
attention, as determined by the Committee Secretary. Execution of project
components will be carried out by the concerned Government agencies as des-
cribed below.
65.       To expedite and coordinate equipment purchases, DB and TCDD will
each have certain procurement responsibilities on behalf of both agencies.
DB will procure all propulsion, navigational and auxiliary equipment for the
floating craft, hydrographic and communications equipment, and related spare
parts, transferring to TCDD the equipment destined for use in its ports and
to LI the hydrographic equipment. TCDD will procure all mobile cranes, shore
cranes, slipways equipment, forklifts, tractors, trailers, generators, and
related spare parts, transferring to DB that portion scheduled for use in
DB-operated ports. DB, which has adequate capacity for the purpose, will
construct the floating craft in its shipyards under contract to TCDD and LI.
To ensure appropriate standardization, specifications for the above equipment
will be prepared with the assistance of an existing joint DB-TCDD technical
procurement working group (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4 Part II A). Procurement
arrangements, including preparation of specifications, tendering documents,
and bid evaluation will be further assisted through the services of an expa-
triate procurement/cargo handling expert to be financed with UNDP support.
Assurances were obtained that this expert will be appointed before June 30,
1979 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
66.       The civil works component will be implemented as follows:  (i) con-
struction of the two slipways and storage facilities, paving, surfacing, and
other general port rehabilitation activities will be carried out by TCDD and
DB for their respective ports with the assistance of LI as needed in prepara-
tion of specifications and tender documents; and (ii) dredging will be carried
out by LI on force account following the usual Government practice, but with
overall responsibility for its execution remaining with TCDD and DB.
67.       A ports training program, prepared by a ports training specialist
financed by UNDP, to meet the individual needs of the project ports, has
been reviewed by the bank. It is acceptable. It will be implemented by DB
and TCDD, who will each appoint a training specialist. Overall coordination
will be provided by the training coordinator in the Project Secretariat. The
two training specialists will be appointed by January 1, 1980, and Lhe train-
ing program is expected to get underway by early 1980. The training will



- 22 -
emphasize port management and modern cargo handling. Practical courses will
be provided at existing centralized training facilities. The training program
is expected to be partly financed by the UNDP, which will provide financing
for up to 120 man-months of fellowships abroad and 85 man-months of specialist
assistance for training in Turkey. Assurances were obtained that these
arrangements will be completed before January 1, 1980 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(c)). In addition, the project provides equipment for the training
program on 60 man-months of training abroad in harbor design.
68.       Phase I and II of the ports planning component will be implemented
by TCA with the assistance of consultants to be financed under the loan, and
appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement
Section 3.02(b)). A timetable and draft terms of reference for carrying out
Phase I and II were discussed and informally agreed during negotiations. As
presently proposed, Phases I and II will be completed by mid-1981. Assurances
were also obtained that before August 31, 1979 the Government will establish a
steering committee for the studies which will include the State Planning
Organization, Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Communications, the Master
Planning Bureau in Istanbul, the Istanbul Municipality, DB and TCDD (Loan
Agreement Schedule 4 Part II C(c)). The Phase III preliminary engineering and
economic feasibility study of the port site recommended by the Phase II study
is also expected to be carried out by a consulting firm. A total of 120 man-
months of technical assistance is being provided for the three phases of the
ports planning study. Altogether, 160 man-months of technical assistance
are provided under the project at an estimated average cost of $7,000 per
man-month.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       Equipment, including the equipment for the floating craft, will
be procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. It will be tendered in separate packages for each equipment
category to ensure standardization, with the exception that for small equip-
ment items under contracts up to $25,000, but not to exceed $500,000 in total
each, may be procured by DB and TCDD under local competitive bidding proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. Domestic manufacturers will be allowed a
preferential margin under ICB of 15 percent of the CIF landed price of com-
peting imports or the prevailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower.
The large 300-ton slipway will be tendered on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Bank's guidelines. Dredging work, costing $2
million (of which $0.8 million is foreign exchange) will be carried out by
force account by LI. Other civil works, costing about $18 million (of which
about $5 million is foreign exchange), will be tendered according to local
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. These work items are unlikely
to attract foreign contractors, since the work is spread over 10 different
ports, cannot be carried out on a continuous basis because of ongoing port
operations, is largely labor-intensive with a large percentage of local costs,
and cannot be satisfactorily combined into large enough contracts.
70.       The proposed loan, expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983,
will finance: 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for equipment; 100
percent of local expenditures ex-factory if locally manufactured; 60 percent



- 23 -
of local expenditure, if locally procured off shelf; 32 percent of the total
cost of the civil works, except the slipway; 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures for the slipway; 80 percent of the total cost of consultants and
100 percent of the foreign cost of fellowships. Disbursements for force
account dredging will be against statements of expenditure, with documentation
retained for Bank review. Retroactive financing has been provided for up to
$500,000 of expenditures after April 1, 1979 for spare parts urgently needed
to rehabilitate existing equipment.
Financial Projections
71.       The main financial proposals for the project are described in para-
graphs 52 thru 56. The port operations of both TCDD and DB are expected to
show surpluses until about 1982, when the new cost related tariffs are expected
to be introduced. However, the parent organizations are likely to remain in
deficit, and the proposed arrangements for assuring sufficient cash for port
operations will be required until that time. The Government may of course
wish to raise port tariffs before 1982 to relieve the cash needs of the parent
organization. Projections beyond 1982 indicate that without the planned
tariff increase, DB port operations would run an annual deficit of about $3 to
$4 million annually until 1985, while TCDD ports would show a surplus of about
$30 to $40 million. Their combined operations would therefore be profitable.
The difference in operating results is due to DB's higher wage costs, its
handling of a relatively larger portion of more labor intensive general cargo
and its additional pilotage services. In connection with the proposed new
ports institutional arrangements (see paragraph 51), the Government is trying
to harmonize wage policies between the two organizations. The financial
projections would be different after the new authority comes into existence,
but in absence of knowledge of the probable timing of its existence and its
likely financial structure, no meaningful projections can be made. To meet
the proposed tariff covenant, port tariffs are expected to need to be in-
creased by about at least 25 percent for DB ports in 1982, if the present ad
valorem dock dues are fully retained. If these dock dues are phased out after
the tariff studies, tariffs would need to increase by about 50 percent for the
TCDD ports and about 100 percent for the DB ports.
Project Benefits and Risks
72.       The proposed project, even under conservative assumptions concerning
export growth, has a high economic rate of return of about 37 percent, a
result of providing critically needed additional investments enabling better
utilization of substantial existing infrastructure. The main quantifiable
benefits accruing to Turkey include savings from reduced ship-service and ship
waiting time, due to improved port productivity; reduced cargo damage arising
from the introduction of improved handling methods and more reliable equipment;
and freight savings due to the use of a heavy lift floating crane in place of
special heavy-lift ships. The economic rate of return from investments in
each of the ten ports ranges from about 15 to 62 percent, reflecting varying
port traffic and the uneven incidence of port congestion. Intangible benefits
include facilitating exports and strengthening port institutions.



- 24 -
73.       The core of the project, the rehabilitation of ten major ports, is
generally free from any significant risk, although projected increases in
port productivity, which depend in part on the success of the institutional,
managerial and training improvements, and port traffic, which depends on
revived economic activity, may not fully materialize. Nevertheless, sensi-
tivity analysis indicates that even in the extreme case where general-cargo
traffic growth and port productivity improvements are reduced by one half,
the resulting economic rate of return remains a satisfactory 20 percent.
The institution building features are longer term and depend, in part, on
parliamentary or general policy action.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the Bank and TCDD and DB, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Direc-
tors. Features of special interest are referred to in appropriate paragraphs
of this report and summarized in Annex III.
75.       Special conditions of effectiveness include the execution of Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and DB, and the Government
and TCDD, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01).
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 13, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                                ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                       Page  I  of  6
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TURKEY                                                 /A
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            780.6                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     558.4                                MOST RCENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 280.0       510.0   1110.0            1898.8      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     245.0       479.0     630.0          1869.3       578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        27.8        35.6      42.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 31.9        38.7      42.6             43.0       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       35.0        46.0      54.0             81.4       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     52.0        65.0      76.0            135.2       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.3        41.7      41.7             26.2       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         55.2        54.0      53.9            63.4        53.5        56.0
65 YRs. AND ABOVE                   3.5         4.3       4.4              9.9        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWrH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         2.5       2.5              0.8        2.5         1.6
URBAN                              5.1 /f      4.9 j     4.2              2.2        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRT8 RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.8        40.6      39.4             19.2       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     16.9        14.4       12.5             9.0       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.6       2.3              1.3        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3         8.2      38.0             38.0       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             91.5       100.0     111.2            113.7      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  110.0       112.0     113.0            127.4      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          78.0        78.0      75.7             92.8       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        22.0 s   24.7              39.3       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.0 lh     14.7 L       ..             1.6        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.3        54.4      56.9             68.9       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          187.0 lf.1  153.0  k      ..            34.5       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        52.0      68.0             68.3       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        51.0      74.0             74.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               *-        53.0      64.0             64.4       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          .,       8.0             94.0       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               ..          ..      13.0             94.0       45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0             93.0       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0 /L   2250.0    1830.0            686.5     2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3260.0      1880.0    1520.0            339.0     1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            590.0 L1   490.0      460.0            178.0      493.9       275.4
URBAN                            190.0 LI   200.0      210.0             70.0      229.6       129.9
RURAL                               ..      5890.0   5750.0            1770.0     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        20.0       20.0            15.3       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.7         5.9        ..               ..        5.2         3.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..         5.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         2.2        ..              0.9        2.0         0.9
URBAN                              2.0         1.9        ..              0.8        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              1.0        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             29.0        40.0      57.0             57.5       64.1        59.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             99.0       67.8        79.0
RURAL                              2.0        18.0        ..              ..        34.1        12.5



-26-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TURKEY                                                /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAHE       SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b EST7KATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIARY:    TOTAL                 75.0       109.0    104.0            108.0       99.8        97.6
FEMALL               58.0        94.0      94.0            99.5       93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 14.0        28.0      30.0            62.8       33.8        47.8
FEHALE                8.0        16.0      18.0            63.6       29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SEOONDARY) 18.0        14.0      15.0            28.2       12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.0        38.0      34.0            24.9       34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                         19.0        28.0      27.0            17.3       22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       40.0 /m     55.5 /n     *-            88.3       71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.0       8.0            90.4       12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       49.0        89.0    107.0             199.0      104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         3.0      12.0           132.5       28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTER1ST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0        41.0       ..             97.1       45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1         6.7       ..              6.6        4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0 ln  14500.0  16400.0 /o
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.2        37.2      37.3            32.4       25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             71.7        63.4      52.5 /o         32.8       46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.5        12.1       ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50.1        44.3      42.8            39.1       33.8        33.7
MALE                                58.7        54.9      53.2            56.7       48.1        50.8
FEMALE                              41.2        33.4      32.1            29.7       17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.2             0.9        1.4         1.4
INCOKE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0 /h     32.8 La   28.0            31.9       23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.0 /h     60.6 jn   56.0            59.7       52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2 /h      2.9 /p    3.5             4.0        4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.6 /h      9.4 /p   11.5            12.9       13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..      191.9
RUIIAL                             ..          ..    162.0             194.9      193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    291.0             295.1      319.8       448.8
RURAL                               ..         ..    218.0             309.2      197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       18.0            18.2       19.8        23.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      25.0            24.2       35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /e  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500
per capita, 1976); /f  1955-60;  /g  1965-70;  /h  1963;   /i  1967-68;  L Based on sample survey
estimates of 9,700 households; might be underestimated; /k 1967; /L 1962; /m Six years and above;
or 1965; /o 1977; Lp 1968.
May 1Q7Q



- 27 -                                                                    ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                 Page   3   of   f
b'ote   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, exoluding the estreem  w             Ea of the iodi  - .r- the moot
populated country in each group.  Cverage of countries among the indicators depends oa availability of data and is not uniform.  Ie to                    .f data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and earreta  disposal, housing, income distributioc al                r-y Ore
simple population-weighted geometric means without the esolusion  of etreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - f.pulatco  (total
Tota1 - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective .asb-: of ho-pital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public end private general and spoctilized houpital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed
lie fallow.                                                                           at least o.e physie.ia    Egatablihments providicg principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, includo health and nod
GRP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita astieates at current market prices,                 cal casters not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sans conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acoomnod-tion and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provide a lioited range of medical facilities.
AdmIssions pe  hospital bed - Total number of  dlsosto or di-ob-goc
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the nsmber of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natursl gas and hydro-, nuclear snd geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  ROUSIING
Average aize of household (pereosa per bousehold) -_totol,>urban, sd_rura.1-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population,  aid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodgec moy or ray cot be included ic
average of two eyd-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical deficitions of huca-
Urban populatios (percent of total) - Ratio of orban to total populs-                    hold vary.
tion; differant definitions of urba  areas may affect comparability                 Average number of per..n.  per roos - tstal, urbn, and rual - Averago oar
of data among countriesb er of perso.s per room in all, urbas, and rural occupied cenventionul
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanet stcructureo and
Per   q. kh.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total- arban, and coral -
Per sq. h   agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living qu-r .rr  as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Papulation age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATIOR
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollmen.t ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Coopound annual                 Primary school - total. and female - Total and femal  enrollment of .11 agsc
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level aS percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per tho-sand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu--
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupilc are below cr
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as oboey; secondary educs-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at leant four years of approved primary instraction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recant estimate.                        vides general vocational, or teacher training instruction  for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average nsmber of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coursen are generally
in her normal neproductive period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates; asually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       alude teehnical, industrial., or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors. annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departeentn  of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the carre-
PFmily planning - users (percent of married wanes) - Paccentoge of                       spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who uer  birth-cagte ol           Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) an
devices to all married women in same age group.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenmer cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars co-prise 00t0r 0r0
capita,snual production of all fond comodities,.                                     eating less than eight pornons; excludes asbaluoros, hearses and nilitacy
Per capita eupply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed feom               vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thoasend population) - All types of receivers fon radon
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general pablic per thousand of population; occludes anlicensed
esperto,  and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,           receivers in countries and in years when registratirn of radio sets wos in
quantities used in toad processing, and louses in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years may not be -oparable fince  st ountries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers ior broad-ast to georri
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receloero in coue-
.ent for waste at household level.                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV seto  was in effcnt.
Per capita supplv of protein (grams Per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circlarion (per thousand population) - Shows tho average ocia-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined on a pcrlodical pobl:-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general  eews.  It is considered tn
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grans                 be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
of animal and polse protein, of which 10 grame should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance par .apits per year  - Baed on the comber of tirkect
Th-se standards ore lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including adminnio..  to drive-in cinemac and nobblo
21 grams of animal protein as as average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active pers.os, includtng srmed
Child (sees 1-4) mortality rate (Per thousand) - Annual deaths per thess-                forces and onemployed but excluding housewives, stodoets  etc.  Dsfini-
and in age group 1-4 yease, to children in this age group.                            tices in various countries are not conmparble.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                Agricultare (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, huoting snd fithing
Life empectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, constructien, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of total tubor ferce.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, sale, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhis.                                              finale labor forns as pernenrages of thir respeotive popalatiocs.
Access tc safe water (percent of pePularion) - total, urban, and troal -                 These are r10's adjusted participation totes reflrctiog age-ceo
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable acceas to                   strrcture of the population, -sd tong time trecd.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population onder 15 and 55 and over to
oncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 ypors.
and sanitary wells) as peroentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not sore                  INCOME DISTRIbUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) receiv-d by riohest 5
soneble aceess of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 perceot, and pooresr 40 perce-t
imply that the heusewife or members of the bousahold do sot have to                    of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water ceeds.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access cc escreca disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                Estimated absolute poverty income level (US5 per capita) - orban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                     Absolute povercy income level is that income level below  hich   mini-ial
dlsposal as percentages of their respective populations.  E.ereta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential eon-food reqairemente is non
disposal may inolude the collection and disposal, with or withost                      affoedable.
treatment, of human enoreta and weste-water by water-borne systems                 E.ti-.ted relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban ar.  re  -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level le.u  that .n.-.thrd
opulation per physician - Population divided by number of praeticing                     pee capita personal Ineose of the coutry
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     istimated population below poverty  oosne.lve.   (pe-oot)  -b and   -o
Population per oursing person - Population divided by ncmber of                          Prcant of population     (urban and rural) whe arc either "absolute poor" o
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
sosistast nurses.
foonomio and tonial Date Division
fonosie Aealysis cod Prejection- Departen-t



- 28 -
TURLEY - IC0008C DOEVELOP9O    DATA SOEIT                                                                   PaSe 4 of 6
Actual                           Rat          Projeted
Orooth Rates           Shars of CDP
19701       1973        1975       1976      1977      1978       1979      1980                  70-77      77-80              1976
A. NATIONAL ACCuUNIS (TL BiLli n. L976 Prtie.)
1.  Grs i o;.tl PT   o duc                          423.5        514 1       607 7     659.0    668 0       720.3     76 07     769                    7.2        3.8               100.0
2. GI  Ra   emof Trad                               6.9         4.5         -5.4       0.0       .0.7      -6.2    .103.4     -649.6                                                0.0
3.  Grace D-oetin 7neo_                             430.4       518.6        602.3     659.0     687.3      714.1    727.3      749.4                  6.9        2.9               100.0
4.  eport. (1C   NrS)                                21.8         36.9        29.6      35.0       32.0      47.4      53.0      61.4                  5.6       24.3                 5.3
5.  Inpooce (1 . N17S)                               31.4        30.2         81.23     62.8       96.7      81.3      77.3      75.6                 17.4       -7.9                12.6
6.  Recru.ts S-iaacd                                 -9.6       -13.3        -51.6    -47.8       -64.7     -33.9    -24.3      -14.2                                                7Z 3
7.  Iaooot -at                                       79.5        97.3        145.8     156.7      163.8     146.3     146.3     146.3                 10.9       -3.7
a.  Cosoaptlon                                      353.6       430.1        513.5     550.1     588.8      607.9    61a.7      636.9                  7.6        2.7                83.5
3.  -o et1a S-oleg                                  76.8        88.5         88.8     108.9       98.5     106.2    122.0      132.1                  3.6       10.3                164.
1U. NatRos.I Saring.                                 83.2        114.7       104.5     119.9      107.1     109.5    125.0       134.1                 3 7        7.8                18.2
B. SECTU0  OUTPUT                                                      Sh-r of Tonal Ostpt
1.  0grtcult                                         27.1        22.6         23.4      23.2       22.1      23.3      23.0      22.0                  4.1        3.6
Z.  Gaditer'                                         2.8         25.2         25:0      2552       25.8      2463      24.3      25:4                  9 2        3.2
3. Oth-r                                             5-          52.1         51.6      51. 5      52.       524       52.       52.6                  7 9        4.0
C. PRICES 11976 - 100)
1.  loport PrIe.s                                    57.4        66.6         96.1     100.0      102.3      85.7      83.4      84.2                  8.6       -6.3
2.  [sport PrInce                                    43.2        60.3        113.1     100.0      104.2      95.4    103.7      111.9                 13.4        2.4
3.  Te- of Trad                                     332.9       110.4         85.0     100.0       98.2      89.8      80.4       75.2               -4.2        -8.5
4.  GDP Deflaton                                     34.4        57.3         85.4     100.0      124.1     186.2    260.7       338.9                20.0       39.8
S. Av-e-g. fhase Rot. ($1.00 .Tn)                    11.3        14.1         14.4      16.1       18.0      24.3
Fereet of CDP
D.  PU01LC PUItM
1.  Tantral oGerneet I-en-                          19.9        19.7         20.5      21.4       22.4      21.5
2.  Central Goreremet Eapendltores                    2.5        22.0         22.8      24.1       27.4      24.1
3.  PUbIGa S-rOr DsiattZ                             8.4.         2.1          6.1       8.1        9.0      N.A.
itZflZZ 1                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 9 70  19 75  19 77
e.  SELECTED ENlDICATO7S                                                                         F.  LABOR FO
1006                                                  2.9                                        Ccillatn Ltbor Frns (-.llloneO                     13.8      15.7       16.2
IAport l     tell,t -y                               2.4                                         CeeL7.nt sd UJdre.ploy.snc (5. of CIr)           11.0      12.3       13.5
overogo Dornieet  Oaring Rate                        13.4                                        Ctvtll   S Elopeeet (dllIsee)                     13.1       14.7      14.7
hergnel OsDt_ti  S-citg Rats                          7.7                                           of vhtib It)
Icosstn1t/RDP                                        21.1
mports/IDP                                           11.4                                          Agrlcoltore                                      67.1       64.5      61.8
lndootryL/ 10.6                                            11.5      12.6
Other                                           22.3       24.0      25.6
1   toals ey  -Ot odd op beause of ro-sding errors.
Z/        -rcoola -reqolretat of aentrSl gooerlnt, stats sane  tenerps, sd oth.r pobils sntnrlties.
3/  Ionclde. slolng  n         ig,   eftrLg,   etrat, gas, sotar   re,  lselads aonruetton.
4/  1977-40 re-grded As snrepre entsre tre.LtGonsl y.a.e,                                                                                                         10ENA CP14A
a  8, 1979



- 29 -
TURKEY - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 ANNEX I
(Million US Dollars)                                      ge
Actual                           Est.         Projected
1970   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977           1978         1979    1.980
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports of Goods and NFS                    754   L799   2123   2152   2742   2556            3258        3545    4146
2.  Imports of Goods and NFS                 -1096  -2391  -4183  -5219  -5735  -6436           -5164        -5338   -5633
3.  Resource Balance                          -342   -592  -2060  -3067  -2993  -3880           -1906        -1793   -1487
4.  Interest (net) 1/                           -47    -59   -102   -124   -217   -500            -678        -744    -920
5.  Profits                                     -33    -35    -71    -36    -83   -116             -58         -89      -94
6.  Workers' Remittances                        273   1183   1426   1312    983    982             975        1090    1180
7.  Net Factor Service Income                   193   1089   1253   1152    683    366             239         257      166
8.  Transfers (net)                              91      18     27      23      15      12          14          25       30
9.  Current Account Balance                     -58    515   -780  -1892  -2295  -3502           -1653       -1511   -1291
10.  Direct Foreign Investment                    58      27     88    153       27      67          40          150     175
11.  Imports with Waiver                          34      50     58      98    136    102           100          102     104
12.  Public M and LT (gross) 2/                  271    376    330    386    491    502             650        1639    1775
13.  Amortisation of Public M and LT 1/ 2/  -146    -72   -126   -117   -119   -214                -387        -511    -674
14.  Public M and LT (net)                       125    304    204    269    372    288             263        1128    1101
15.  IMF (net)                                    48    -11      -      243    148       -          180          150    -100
16.  Short Term (net) 3/                          18   -224    -80    916   1806   2972             730           -        -
17.  Capital not included elsewhere  4/          -39      67     79   -204   -306   -478            540          -19       61
18   Charge in Reserves (- - increase)          -186   -728    431    417    112    551            -200           -      -50
B.  M and LT LOAN COMMITMENTS 5/                      506    547    577    721   1461   1076           1368
Public sector                                    487    491   3527    615   1374   1076            1368
i.  Bank Group                                   40    135    228    158    237        144         358
2.  Other Multilateral                          132    100    135       40      55       3          63
3. Governments: Market Economies               154    218    145    178    180    301              375
4. Governments: Centrally Planned Economies 114           4     -        3    295      216         343
5.  Suppliers                                    47      3      -       45    161      160          53
6. Financial Institutions                        -      32      19    191    423       251         177
7  Other                                         -      -       -       -      24      -            -
Private Sector                                   19     56      50    106      87    n.a.          n.a.
C.  AVERAGE TERMS OF M and LT LOAN                -.
COMMITMENTS /5
1.  Grant Element (%)                            36.4   39.0   29.7   15.4   14.3 14.0             n.a.
2.  Interest       (X)                            3.6    4.7    5.9    7.3    7.2   7.4            n.a.
3.  Maturity       (yrs.)                        18.0   25.6   22.9   13.4   12.6  12.7            n.a.
4.  Grace          (yrs.)                         4.6    7.0    5.6    3.9    3.8  4.6             n.a.
.1 Net of debt relief.
2  Up to and including 1978 these figures are Government estimates, which are not consistent with Bank DRS data.
/3  Up to and including 1978 mainly convertible Lira Accounts, Acceptance Credits, Commercial and Oil arrears, Bankers'
Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts, and Dresdner Bank Scheme deposits.
/4  Mainly errors and omissions up to and including 1978; in 1979 and 1980 represents net private X and LT borrowing.
/5  Public and publicly guaranteed external debt only.
EMENA CPIIA
May 8, 1979



-  30  -                                                  ANE  I
Page 6 of 6
TURErY - EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                           Estimate
1970      1973      1975       1976       1977       1978
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.  Public M and LT (Disbursed) 1/                                            1854      2869      3176       3585       4314        4928
2.  Private M and LT (disbursed) 1/                                             42        115       160        253        479        557
3.  Short Term 2/                                                             n.a.      n.a.      1388       3342        6539       7469
4.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                           1896 2a/ 2984 2a/ 4724         7180      11332      12954
5.  Undisbursed Public M and LT 1/                                              840      1101      1608       2427       2787       2972
B.  DEBT SERVICE (nillion US Dollars)
1.  Interest on all Debt (net of relief) 3t                                    -47       -59      -124       -217        -500       -678
2.  Amortisation of M and LT Debt (net of relief) 3/                          -146        -72     -117        -119       -214       -387
3.  lotrl Debt Service Paymente                                               -193      -131      -241        -336       -714      -1065
C.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Debt Service Ratio 4/                                                       18.8       4.4        7.0        9.0       20.2    25.2
2.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP 4e/                                     15.0      14.3      13.1       17.5       23.9    24.1
D.  TERMS
1.  Interest on all Debt 5/ / Total Outatending Disbursed Debt                   2.5       2.0       2.6         3.0       .4.4      5.2
2.  Total Debt Service 5/ / Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                     10.2       4.4       5.1        4.7        6.3      8.2
E.  EXPOSURE
1.  Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                               7.2       8.5       9.1        7.7        6.1      6.5
2.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                    3.2      14.9      13.5       13.4        9.1      6.6
F.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT
(Million US Dollars)                                                  1977L/6                        _1978___6
1.  Medium & LonR-Term Debt                                                    4793       42.3                5485            42.4
a. Public M And LT
(i)  BSank Group                                                       .693        6.1                 836            6.5
(ii)  Ocher Multilateral                                                 502        4.4                 558             _.3
(iii)  Governments                                                       2469       21.8                2901            22.4
tiv)  Suppliers                                                          133        1.2                 131             [.0
(v)  Financial Institutions                                             483        4.3                 464             '.6
(vi)  Other                                                               34        0.0                  -32           0.2
Total                                                    4314        38.1               4928            38.1
b.  Private n and LT (Total)                                               47q        4.2                 557             4.3
2.   Short Term
(i)  Convertible Lira Accounts                                         2267       20.0                2860           22.1
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                     1858       16.4                1675            12.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                 710        6.3                 862             6.7
(iv)  bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts                 828        7.3                 924             7.1
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                      173        1.5                 363            2.8
(vi)  IMF                                                                409        3.6                 622            4.8
(vii)  Other                                                              294        2.6                 163             1.3
Total                                                     6539       57.7                7469           57.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                           11332      100.0               12954          100.0
/I  Bank DRS data.
/2  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.  /2a  Excluding short-term.
/3  Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data.
/4  Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
/4a At market prices. /5 Net of debt relief.
__  As of December 31 for respective years.
EMENA CPIIA
May 8, 1979



- 31 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Loan and
Credit                                                              (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year        Borrower                   Purpose             Bank        IDA   Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and ten credits fully disbursed                        297.,      127.2
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Education                    13.5                 3.9
762-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Fruit and Vegetable          10.0                 1.2
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Fruit and Vegetable                     15.0      0.1
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Irrigation Rehabilitation               18.0      0.8
817-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Steel Mill Expansion         76.0                 0.3
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Water Supply        37.0                 9.7
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Urban Development               2.3      0.7
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Livestock II                            16.0      1.5
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Ceyhan Aslantas              44.0                24.1
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Power District      14.0                 1.5
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                46.7                 9,3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey       Antalya Forestry             40.0                 5.1
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                  Elbistan Power              148,,                69.9
1024-TU   1974   DYB                      Industry                     40.0                 3.3
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                     Industry                     65.0                 2.3
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey       Rural Development            75.0                51.9
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit           54,3                38.8
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                    70.0                23.4
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Livestock III                21.5                17.9
1194-TU   1976   TEK                      Power Transmission II        56.0                37.2
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Tourism                      26.0                24.4
1379-TU   1977   DYB                      Industry                     70.0                68.0
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                     Industry                     74.0                42.0
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Northern Forestry            86.0                85.4
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Livestock IV            a/   24.0                24.0
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Erdemir Steel Stage II -    95.0                 95.0
1627-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Program Loan                150.0               118.2
S-13-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Oil Recovery                  2.5                 2.2
Total                                              1635.5      178.5    762.1
of which has been repaid                          157.1        4.7
Total now outstanding                              1478.4      173.8
Amount sold                   3.6
of which has been repaid   3.6                    - 0 -      - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                  1478.4      173.8
Total undisbursed                                   759.0        3.1    762.1
a/  Not yet effective.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
32 -                            Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor         Type of Business               Loan     Equity      Total
1964       TSKB           DFC                               -       0.92        0.92
1966       SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                      0.90      0.47        1.37
1967       TSKB II        DFC                               -       0.34        0.34
1969       TSKB III       DFC                               -       0.41        0.41
1969       SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                      1.50      0.43        1.93
1970       Viking I       Pulp and Paper                  2.50      0.62        3.12
1970       ACS            Glass                         10.00       1.58       11.58
1971       NASAS          Aluminum                        7.00      1.37        8.37
1971       SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn                      0.75        -         0.75
1971       Viking II      Pulp and Paper                    -       0.05        0.05
1972       SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                        -       0.52        0.52
1972       TSKB IV        DFC                               -       0.43        0.43
1973       TSKB V         DFC                           10.00         -        10.00
1973       Akdeniz        Tourism                         0.33      0.27        0.60
1974       Borusan        Steel Pipes                     3.60      0.44        4.04
1974       AKSA           Textiles                      10.00         -        10.00
1975       Kartaltepe    Textiles                         1.30        -         1.30
1975       Sasa           Nylon Yarn                     15.00        -        15.00
1975       Aslan          Cement                        10.60         -        10.60
1975       DOKTAS         Steel                           7.50      1.37        8.87
1975       TSKB           DFC                           25.00       1.22       26.22
1976       NASAS          Aluminum                        1.58        -         1.58
1976       TSKB           DFC                           25.00         -        25.00
1976       Asil Celik    Steel                           12.00      2.18       14.18
1977       Borusan        Steel Pipes                       -       0.16        0.16
1978       DOKTAS         Steel                             -       0.27        0.27
1979       Ege Mosan      Engines for Mopeds              2.15        -         2.15
1979       ISAS           Motor Vehicles &
Accessories                  8.00      1.40        9.40
1979       Asil Celik    Steel                              -       1.80        1.80
1979       Trakya Cam    Glass                          30.96       4.00       3L.Q6
Total Gross Commitments                    185.67      20.27      20'.94
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                 97.98       2.99      100.97
Total Commitments now held by IFC            87.69     17.28      104.97
Total Undisbursed                            41.59      5.84       47.43



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project:  US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.  Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation is
now proceeding well, with equipment procurement progressing satisfactorily.
Training of teachers for technician schools, adult training centers and
practical trade schools has made considerable progress. The Management
Training Institute has been established on an interim basis pending passage
of legislation formally establishing it, and its instructors are undergoing
training. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical
education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is nearing completion, with three of its four com-
ponents, including refrigerated trailer and towing units, marketing facili-
ties and a roll-on roll-off ferryship, fully implemented. A fourth component,
comprising credit and technical assistance for citrus development, underwent
initial start-up delays, but is now well established and being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: April 30,
1979.
Construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
at Silifke and Tokat is nearly complete, but on-farm works are still behind
schedule at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season.
Arrangements to ensure use of remaining credit funds before the revised
closing date were made by the implementing agencies, and project works not
completed by the closing date will be carried out using Government funds.
Agreements to reimburse have been issued for several letters of credit repre-
senting remaining funds under the IDA credit, which are expected to be with-
drawn by mid-June.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project started commercial production at the end of the year,
three years behind the original schedule, due to delays in beginning procure-
ment stemming largely from inefficient management.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs are expected to be completed by end-1978. Substantial
improvements to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full
utilization to be made of the new water sources. Although a tariff increase
was implemented in March 1978, this was insufficient to enable ISI to generate
sufficient funds for future ongoing investment in the distribution system, and
the Government has been requested to explore ways to resolve the lack of ade-
quate local and foreign currency.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Terms of reference for Phase II
studies have been agreed and consultants' proposals sought.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but diversion has now been completed with revised
tunnelling methods, about two years behind the appraisal estimate. After some
initial delays, progress in construction of the irrigation works has been



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
satisfactory, and the system was ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha,
nearly one-third of the projects target. On-farm works were progressing
satisfactorily although farm drainage was behind schedule. However, construc-
tion of feeder roads has progressed faster than initially estimated. Although
a permanent director has been appointed, the extension consultant has resigned
and is now being replaced. Full-time subject matter specialists have been
hired and recruitment of field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased by nearly 300 percent over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs
by 26 percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the
proposed reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services
have been completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's
tariffs were raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in
September 1977; additional steps are planned by the Government to help cover
the increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 80 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite two tariff increases since the loan was
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging
70 to 80 percent, which became effective earlier this year, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. The cost overruns were to be met by the Government and



-36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
the State Investment Bank. The Government has recently been unable to
authorize the foreign exchange transfers needed to permit continued procure-
ment for the industrial part of the project, except for certain critically
needed items, and is seeking additional external financing. Local currency
payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also behind schedule, resulting in
a high debt-equity ratio.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Engineering and contracting are proceeding, but project implementa-
tion has been delayed by critical problems, including insufficient staff,
inefficient management, inadequate coordination among various agencies and
unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. Following Bank and co-lender
reviews of the situation with the Turkish authorities in early 1977, the reme-
dial measures initiated by Turkey have resulted in some improvement of project
coordination and physical aspects of project implementation. Financing, both
domestic and foreign, remains a serious problem. The Government is reviewing
possible actions to overcome these and other remaining implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The project extension
service and credit components are operating successfully and consultants are
being engaged. Corum dam has been completed. Kumbaba pumping station and
the associated irrigation networks are nearly completed. Construction of the
remaining village centers will be delayed until 1979 while a plan for the use
and maintenance of the centers already built is being drawn up. Other civil
works are well underway.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
of foreign exchange shortages, but this situation is expected to improve, and
overall project implementation and the rate of disbursement should also
improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. Terms
of reference for consultants to carry out the study of TCZB's structure and
procedures are being finalized after considerable delay. At the Borrower's
request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of
the original Loan amount of $63 million, allocated for this purpose, were
cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04
million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of
UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily, but due to delays in
civil works and procurement is expected to start production in mid-1980,
eighteen months behind the appraisal schedule. Erection of machinery and
equipment is expected to begin in early 1979 and trial runs about one year
later.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work.
The Project Unit has now been established in the Project Area and appointment
of key staff is being accelerated.



- 38 -                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
Almost half of the loan has been committed, and the remainder is
expected to be committed by mid-1979. DYB has experienced management changes
and still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms
will enable it to fill more senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and two-thirds of the loan has been com-
mitted. In 1977 and 1978, TSKB essentially reached an agreed target by allo-
cating 39 percent of its resources to projects in less developed regions, and
exceeded another in its assistance to small and medium-scale labor-intensive
enterprises. TSKB has so far been unable to raise resources in international
capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the
interest of several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit
renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Project implementation has begun and procurement is underway.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Recruitment of technical specialists for the project and selection
of consultants for the milk industry study are underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date: November 16, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30. As
of June 6, disbursements totalled $53.9 million.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
This loan has just become effective. Consultants have been
appointed for the comparative feasibility study, which is under way.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Turkey to prepare the project    16 months (January 1977 -
April 1978)
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project                Transport Coordination
Agency (TCA), Turkish State
Railways (TCDD), and
Turkish Maritime Bank (DB)
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider             January 1977
the project
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission                     April 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations                 March 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                      October 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Specific measures to improve sub-sectoral coordination (para. 49 and
Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c)).
(b) The proposals for a new port institution to be furnished to the Bank
for an exchange of views before March 31, 1980 and implemented, using
plans on which the Bank has given its views, within 36 months of
passage (para. 51 and Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(a) and (b)).
(c)  Measures to improve sub-sector planning, and provision that no new
major port investments, other than those in the fourth five year plan,
will be undertaken before reviewing the results of Phase II of the
Port Sector Study (para. 59 and Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
(d) Establishment of a Project Coordination Committee by June 30, 1979,
three technical working groups, and a secretariat (para. 64 and Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4 Part I A and B).
(e) Introduction of cost-related tariffs to meet specified cash flow
criteria not later than January 1, 1982 (para. 56 and Loan Agreement,
Section 3.09).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) Until cost-related tariffs are introduced, provision of sufficient
funds to TCDD ports and DB ports by requiring TCDD and DB to set
aside for port operations from the ad valorem duty received by them,
sums, which together with other port revenues, will cover costs
including their own investment costs (para. 53 and Loan Agreement,
Section 4.04).



IBRD 13702
-.                               30             ~~~5*                                                                                      40                                                    AU m30oei
Tek:rdo        ~            bul__------   Karasa   re I i      ua           Katmn
Aegean~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ieu   Suom
Odemis  '~~  eril  ~      k~ehir                    Nev~~ehir ankirr S
Sec              Aydin~~~~i                                                                                                                                                                    Ari
)  Denizil~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~oza                                                                             rzru                                                        D6bu
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aila
Location  ofmainr     ot   n        rnpr  Linksi
OerhezliPorts:                                                                                                                     iyar     a 
~~~~~Rivers ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~     ~ ~       r                                       aaEprO                      vr
uneain la bauaarie
raanGaiat
30                                                                                                                              copeuanagata  o          n   R



