CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1741 TU
Loan Agreement
(Ports Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 2, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1741 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Borrower or Turkey) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Denizcilik Bankasi (hereinafter called DB) and Turkiye
Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demiryollari (hereinafter called TCDD) will
carry out sub-parts of the Project described and specified in
Schedules 2 and 4 hereto with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to DB
and TCDD a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between, on the one hand, the Bank
and, on the other hand, DB and TCDD;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between, on the
one hand, the Bank and, on the other hand, DB and TCDD of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(b) "DB Subsidiary Loan Agreement"    means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and DB pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the DB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(c) "TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and TCDD pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the TCDD Subsidi-
ary Loan Agreement.
(d) "TCA" means the Transport Coordination Agency estab-
lished and operating within the Borrower's ministry responsible
for transportation.
(e) "LI" means the General Directorate of Harbor Construc-
tion of the Borrower's ministry responsible for public works or
any successor thereto responsible for ports.
(f) "Project Coordinating Committee" or "PCC" means the
committee to be established within the Borrower's ministry respon-
sible for transportation, as provided in Part I.A. of Schedule 4
hereto.
(g) "TCDD Ports" and "DB Ports" mean Turkey's public ports
respectively administered by TCDD and DB or any substitute there-
for or successor thereto, respectively, and include all port
property, equipment and materials thereof.
(h) "Ports" refers collectively to the TCDD and DB Ports.
(i) "TCDD Project Ports" and "DB Project Ports" mean the
TCDD Ports and DB Ports, respectively, which are referred to in
the preamble to Schedule 2 hereto.
(j) "Project Ports" refers collectively to the TCDD and DB
Project Ports.


﻿-3-
(k) "TCDD Law" and "DB Law" mean the respective laws and/or
decrees or regulations pursuant to which TCDD and DB have been
established and operate, as amended from time to time.
(1) "New Ports Institution" means either a new national
ports authority or any regional ports authorities or any other
viable institution to be the successor to DB, TCDD or any other
public port authority currently owning, administering and managing
public ports in Turkey, such institution to own, administer and
manage such port or ports.
(m) "SPO" means the Borrower's State Planning Organization.
(n) "ad valorem dock duty" means the dock duty collected
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 827, as amended from time to
time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-five
million dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for Part A (e) and (f) of the
Project and to be financed out of the Proceeds of the Loan, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 hereto and those of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. DB and TCDD are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken in respect of sub-Categories (1) (a) and
(2) (a) and (d) and sub-Categories (1) (b) and (c) and (2) (b),
respectively, of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the sub-parts
of the Project described in Schedule -2 hereto, for which it is
responsible, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required therefor; it being specified that the
Project shall be implemented by the Borrower, DB and TCDD in
accordance r-ith the provisions of Schedule 4 hereto, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement among the
Borrower, the Bank, DB and TCDD.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause DB and TCDD to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of


﻿-5-
all funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable DB and TCDD to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance; in particular it is
specified that the Borrov -r shall take all appropriate action to
enable DB to take delivery from a foreign supplier, on or before
December 31, 1980 (or such other date as the Bank may agree), of
about ten tugboat engines of about 2,500 HP each.
(c) The Borrower shall relend to DB and TCDD, respectively,
such portion of the proceeds of the Loan as shall be allocated
from time to time to the financing of the goods and works included
in the Project and pertaining to their respective Ports and the
sub-parts of the Project for which they are respectively respon-
sible (as specified in Section 2.09 hereof and Schedules 2 and 4
hereto), under separate subsidiary loan agreements to be entered
into between, on the one hand, the Borrower and, on the other
hand, DB and TCDD, respectively, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the DB
and TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
either such agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower, DB and
TCDD in the procurement of goods required for the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1979 (or such other
date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree), employ, or cause
to be employed, a procurement specialist whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D
(a) and (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall, according to a
timetable acceptable to the Bank, employ, or cause to be employed,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank; it being specified that the employment of the consultants
for Part D (b) of the Project shall require the cooperation of
the Borrower, DB and TCDD.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower shall, on or before January 1, 1980 (or
such other date as the Bank may agree), take all steps necessary
to ensure that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank be completed
for carrying out the training programs included in Part C of
the Project and, thereafter, cause such training programs to be
carried out according to a timetable satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for Part A (e) and (f) of
the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall issue, as and when needed, any import
or other licenses including any foreign exchange authorization
required for the importation of goods or the supply of services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or for the replacement
or repair of such goods.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the contract documents for Parts
C and D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall, in cooperation with DB and
TCDD, maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visi.t the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to see the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall, in cooperation with DB and TCDD, furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project (including, without
limitation, quarterly progress reports on equipment procurement
and the status of civil works, training and technical assistance
and all pertinent information on port traffic statistics,


﻿-7-
financial statements, disbursement schedules, efficiency indi-
cators and critical path programs related to the Ports), its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
the Bank, DB and TCDD, the Borrower shall, in cooperation with DB
and TCDD, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower, the Bank, DB and TCDD, of their respective obligations
under the Loan and Project Agreements and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower (i) shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project, (ii) shall, promptly
after such acquisition, inform the Bank thereof, and (iii) shall,
if specifically requested by the Bank, furnish to the Bank,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall (i) before March 31,
1980 (or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree),
furnish to the Bank for exchange of views, through its ministry
responsible for transportation, detailed draft proposals for the
establishment of the New Ports Institution, together with drafts
of the legal instruments needed for the establishment of such
institution, and (ii) shall, upon such exchange of views thereon,
take promptly all appropriate steps, within its powers, for the
finalization of such instruments.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the New Ports Institution to
become fully operational within 36 months (or such other time
period as the Borrower and the Bank may agree) after the finali-
zation of such instruments and, for that purpose, the Borrower
undertakes to prepare, within 18 months after the finalization of
such instruments and following an exchange of views with the Bank
thereon, an appropriate, detailed administrative, financial and
legal implementation plan.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that inter alia the following
organizational reforms, to be satisfactory to the Bank, be imple-
mented:
(i) prior to January 1, 1981 (or such other date as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree) procedures for
standardization of new port equipment and pooling
of spare parts by TCDD and DB;
,(ii) continuation of common training programs for
the Ports covering training of port labor and
management and, prior to January 1, 1982 (or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree),
completion of overseas training in advanced pro-
grams in harbour design of at least two port
engineers from DLH;
(iii) prior to January 1, 1982 (or such other date
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree) provision
of sufficient staff to TCA to update the plan
included in Phases I and II of Part D (a) of the
Project on a continuing basis; and
(iv) prior to January 1, 1981 (or such other date as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree), arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for coordinating DB and
TCDD cargo-handling operations and utilization of
related facilities in the ports of Haydarpasa and
Salipazari.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that DB and TCDD transfer to
the New Ports Institution, promptly after the New Ports Institu-
tion shall have become operational and for purposes of the Loan
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, the properties,
equipment and materials of the Ports, all assets and liabilities
relating thereto, and the respective rights and obligations of
DB and TCDD under the Project Agreement and the DB and TCDD
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, subject to such modifications or
amplifications of the Loan and Project Agreements as the Bank may
reasonably request for the achievement of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not undertake in any calendar
year, directly or indirectly, any major investment for a project


﻿-9-
in the public port sector (other than those already referred to in
the Borrower's fourth Five-Year Plan) until it shall have reviewed
with the Bank the findings emanating from Phase II of the study
included in Part D (a) of the Project.
(b) For the purpose of this Section "major investment"
means any such project whose aggregate estimated investment cost
in 1979 prices shall exceed the equivalent of ten million dollars.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all appropriate steps
to enable DB and TCDD (i) to revalue the assets of the Ports, and
more specifically the properties, equipment and materials thereof,
pursuant to the findings emanating from the study included in Part
D (b) (i) of the Project, (ii) to reflect, as from the end of the
calendar year 1981, such revised values, at least on a pro forma
basis, in the financial statements pertaining to the Ports, and
(iii) thereafter, to revalue such assets at least every three
years on the basis of replacement cost.
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank m-y otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all appropriate steps to enable DB and TCDD
or the New Ports Institution, as the case may be, to put into
operation, on or before January 1, 1982, a cost-related tariff
structure applicable to the Ports to be established pursuant to
the findings emanating from the study included in Part D (b) (ii)
of the Project; it being understood that, after such date, the
Borrower shall ensure that such tariffs be, at all times, applied
and set at such levels as shall be required to yield revenues from
the Ports' operations, sufficient to cover in any given year: (i)
all Ports' operating expenses (including administrative expenses
and adequate maintenance but excluding depreciation); (ii) the
interest on, and the amortization of, the debts related to the
Ports; and (iii) a reasonable annual portion of future capital
expenditures for the Ports, such annual portion to be not less
than 35% of the average annual cost of investments (including
provisions for replacement of assets) to be made in the Ports by
TCDD, DB and/or the Borrower during the following five-year
period; it being understood that, if such revenues prove to be
insufficient to fully cover the items (i), (ii) and (iii) above,
then such revenues may be complemented by a portion of the ad
valorem dock duty which, from time to time, may be allocated for
use in the Ports.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, on or before September 30,
1979 (or such other date as the Bank may agree) establish within
TCA and, thereafter, maintain in operation a port stati.tics unit


﻿- 10 -
for the purpose of compiling and analyzing port statistics on a
national basis, it being understood that such unit shall commence
its activities not later than January 1, 1980 (or such other
date as the Bank may agree).
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other ex-. ernal debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange


﻿- 11 -
assets held by T.C. Merkez Bankasi or any institution performing
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in aczordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, as and when needed, provide
DB and TCDD or New Ports Institution, as the case may be, with
all foreign exchange funds required for the procurement of the
spare parts necessary for the maintenance of the Ports and issue
any import or other licenses including any foreign exchange
authorization required for the importation of such spare parts.
Section 4.04. (a) Until the tariff structure referred to
in Section 3.09 hereof shall have been put into operation and
the New Ports Institution shall have taken over the operations
of the Ports, the Borrower shall take all appropriate steps to
ensure that (i) TCDD and DB shall maintain separate accounts and
prepare separate financial statements, as provided in Section 4.02
(b) of the Project Agreement, and (ii) TCDD and DB or the New
Ports Institution shall set aside and retain in such accounts for
the needs of the TCDD and DB Ports, respectively, such amount of
the ad valorem dock duty collected in the Ports as shall be
sufficient, together with other revenues from TCDD and DB Ports'
operations, respectively, to cover in any given year for TCDD and
DB Ports, respectively, (A) all operating expenses (including
administrative expenses and adequate maintenance but excluding
depreciation), (B) the interest on, and the amortization of, the
debts related thereto, and (C) a reasonable annual portion of
future capital expenditures, it being specified that the level of
such annual portion shall not be less, on an annual aggregate
basis, than $1,000,000 equivalent until the tariff structure
referred to in Section 3.09 hereof shall have been put into
operation and, thereafter, shall not be less than the level
specified in paragraph (iii) of Section 3.09 hereof.
(b) If the amount of said duty, together with such revenues,
is insufficient and/or is not available at any given time for this
purpose, the Borrower shall ensure that the Ports' tariffs be
promptly adjusted so that the expenses described under (A), (B)
and (C) above are fully covered.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) DB or Tia"DD shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of DB or TCDD under the Project Agreement
or the DB or TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreements, as the case may be.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that DB or TCDD will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the DB or TCDD Subsidi-
ary Loan Agreements, as the case may be.
(c) DB Law or TCDD Law shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of DB or TCDD to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement or the DB or TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreements, as the
case may be.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DB or TCDD, as the case may be, or for the suspension of
their respective operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, DB and TCDD
or any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,


﻿- 13 -
namely, that, the DB and TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
executed on behalf of, on the one hand, the Borrower and, on the
other hand, DB and TCDD.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by DB and TCDD, and is legally binding upon DB and TCDD
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) the DB and TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by, on the one hand, the Borrower
and, on the other hand, DB and TCDD and are legally binding upon,
on the one hand, the Borrower and, on the other hand, DB and
TCDD, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 5, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel MUdUrlUgii ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                    Telex:
MALIYE                             821-42689
Hazine                             821-42285
Ankara                             MLYETR


﻿- 14 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstructioni and Development
1818 H Street, N,.
Washington, D.C. 2C433
United States of .merica
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By Is/ Alaeddin Yoruk
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a)  for DB Ports            3,400,000     )
)  32%
(b)  for TCDD Ports          2,800,000     )
(excluding the
slipway included
in Part B (a) (ii)
of the Project)
(c)  for the slipway in-     2,600,000          100% of foreign
cluded in Part B (a)                      zxpenditures
(ii) of the Project
(2) Equipment:
(a)  for DB Ports under     14,800,000    )
Part A (b) of the                    )
Project                              )
)  100% of foreign
(b)  for TCDD Ports         28,550,000    )     expenditures and
under Part A (a)                     )     100% of local
of the Project                       )     expenditures
)  ex-factory for
(c)  for LI under Part A       250,000     )    goods manufac-
(e) of the Project                   )    tured locally
)  and 60% of local
)  expenditures for
(d)  Propulsion, navi-      13,100,000     )    goods purchased
gational and aux-                    )    from local sup-
iliary equipment                     )    pliers
for floating craft                   )
under Part A (c),                    )
(d) and (f) of                       )
the Project)


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) Facilities and Con-         1,850,000         80%
sulting services
for Parts C and D
(4) Fellowships and               150,000         100% of foreign
ancillary expendi-                           expenditures
tures
(5) Unallocated                 7,500,000
TOTAL      75,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or servic .s supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals


﻿- 17 -
may be made in respect of sub-Categories (2) (a) and (2) (b) on
account of expenditures incurred after April 1, 1979, such expen-
ditures not to exceed an aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent.
5.
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, Dower or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are (i) to improve the
efficiency of port operations in Turkey's ten main public ports
for general use enumerated below, through the replacement and
modernization of old and obsolete cargo-handling equipment and
floating craft, as well as through the improvement of storage and
cargo-handling areas, (ii) to promote the introduction and use of
modern cargo-handling methods and port management techniques,
through inter alia the provision of modern equipment and training
of port operational and managerial personnel, (iii) to assist the
Borrower in carrying out port sub-sector planning and developing
procedures for making optimal future investments in that sub-
sector, and (iv) to assist the Borrower in establishing a new
institutional frauawork to manage its ports.
The ten public ports in the Project include:
-    the TCDD Ports of Haydarpasa, Derince, Samsun, Mersin,
Iskenderun and Bandirma, aministered by TCDD; and
-    the DB Ports of Antalya, Salipazari, Izmir and Trabzon,
administered by DB.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Provision of equipment consisting of the following:
(a) For TCDD Project Ports:
About 29 shore cranes, 53 mobile cranes, 44 forklifts,
10 tractors and 20 trailers; 2 tractors with dozer,
ship-to-shore communications equipment; spare parts for
the above to cover the first 3 years of operations and
for rehabilitation of existing cargo handling equipment
(including some minor workshop equipment) and other
miscellaneous equipment.
(b) For DB Project Ports:
About 8 shore cranes, 40 mobile cranes, 66 forklifts,
11 tractors, 22 trailers a.d 4 generators; ship-to-shore
communications equipment; spare parts for the above to


﻿- 19 -
cover the first 3 years of operations and for rehabili-
tation of existing cargo handling equipment (including
some minor workshop equipment) and other miscellaneous
equipment.
(c) For TCDD Project Ports:
Floating craft (including one about 2,500 hp tugboat,
two about 1,500 hp tugboats, three about 1,250 hp
tugboats and three about 1,000 hp tugboats, all fitted
with firefighting equipment, and about 15 service
boats); spare parts for the above to cover the first 3
years of operations.
(d) For TCDD: one floating crane of about 200-ton lifting
capacity for general use in the ports.
(e) For LI: hydrographic measurement and other miscellaneous
equipment.
(f) For LI: four about 350 hp tugboats.
Part B:   Improvement, general rehabilitation and/or construction
of works consisting of the following:
(a) For TCDD Project Ports:
(i) Total paving and surfacing of about 400,000 m2
of open storage areas and general rehabilitation in
the ports of Samsun, Haydarpasa, Derince, Mersin
and Iskenderun, including total dredging of about
450,000 m3 in the ports of Samsun, Derince, Mersin
and Iskenderun.
(ii) Construction of a slipway of about 300-ton lifting
capacity in Iskenderun (including all related
mechanical equipment for repair and maintenance of
harbor craft).
(b) For DB Project Ports:
(i) Total paving and surfacing of about 270,000 m2 of
open storage areas, construction of about 19,000 m2
of storage sheds, and general rehabilitation in the
ports of Trabzon, Salipazari and Izmir, including


﻿- 20 -
total dredging of about 100,000 m3 in the port
of Trabzon.
(ii) Construction of a slipway of about 100-ton lifting
capacity in Antalya (including all related mechani-
cal equipment for repair and maintenance of harbor
craft).
Part C:
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
common training programs for port management, port engineers,
port labor and other port operating staff, through the
provision of instructors, facilities and fellowships for
training abroad.
Part D:
Provision of consulting services to carry out the following:
(a) Port-sub-sector planning study to be carried out in
three Phases (I, II and III), with the assistance
of about 120 man-months of consulting services, as
follows:
Phase (I). A national ports study to assess future
port capacity requirements throughout Turkey until
about the year 2000.
Phase (II). A national port master plan to deter-
mine port investment priorities on a regional basis
until the year 2000, including a special study of
the Istanbul/Marmara region which is designed to
determine the need, size and location of a new port
taking into account Istanbul's longer term urban
development needs and strategy.
Phase (III). Preliminary design and engineering of
the new Marmara regional port at an appropriate
site, or any other higher priority port investment
agreed with the Bank, to be selected on the basis
of the study described under (II) above.
(b) Studies for (i) revaluation of Ports' assets, (ii)
establishment of a cost-related tariff structure


﻿- 21 -
applicable to the Ports, and (iii) assisting the Bor-
rower in making the New Ports Institution operational,
all with the assistance of about 40 man-months of
consulting services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1983
through   November 1, 1995                   2,885,000
On May 1, 1996                                    2,875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (1-)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                5.10%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                7.90%


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation
Part I:   General Implementation of the Project
A.   For the purpose of ensuring the overall coordination of
the timely execution of the Project, the Borrower shall, on
or before June 30, 1979 (or such other date as the Bank may
agree), establish within the Borrower's ministry responsible for
transportation and, thereafter, maintain in operation a project
coordination committee to be chaired by the undersecretary or
deputy undersecretary of such ministry and to comprise, inter
alia, at least one senior representative (at the level of deputy
general director) of each of TCDD, DB, TCA and LI; such committee
shall be convened whenever critical matters affecting Project
implementation require high level attention and, in any event,
on a quarterly basis and, without prejudice to the discharge of
its responsibilities related to the Project, PCC shall also be
responsible for ensuring, within the framework of all appropriate
legislation, the removal of cargo from the Ports by TCDD and DB
within a reasonable time period: (i) in order to facilitate the
monitoring by PCC of the progress made in removing said cargo,
each of TCDD and DB shall, not later than June 30, 1979, prepare
for the TCDD Ports and DB Ports, respectively, lists indicating
the quantity and type of cargo which, at such date, have been in
the Ports for more than six months (such lists to include time-
tables for the removal of such cargo) and, shall, on a quarterly
basis thereafter, report to PCC on the progress made in meeting
the targets set in such timetables and the problems encountered in
so doing; and (ii) PCC shall review such reports and make, if
needed and on the basis of such reports, all appropriate recom-
mendations for corrective action and, then, keep the Bank informed
of the progress made in the implementation of such recommenda-
tions.
B.   For the purpose of assisting PCC in discharging its respon-
sibilities, and in particular in coordinating and monitoring
Project activities on a continuous basis, the Borrower shall, on
or before August 31, 1979 (or such other date as the Bank may
agree), establish within TCA and, thereafter, maintain in opera-
tion a secretariat which shall be staffed, at all times after the
establishment of such secretariat, with a training coordinator, a
ports engineer and all appropriate support personnel, it being
understood (a) that such training coordinator and engineer shall


﻿- 25 -
have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank and (b) that TCA's representative on PCC shall act as
head of such secretariat and be responsible for bringing critical
matters to the attention of PCC.
C.   Without any limitation upon the generality of the foregoing
paragraph (B) and for the purpose of overseeing (i) the procure-
ment of equipment under Part A of the Project, (ii) the design and
construction of civil works under Part B of the Project, and (iii)
the training and studies under Parts C and D (b) of the Project,
the Borrower shall on or before June 30, 1979 (or such other date
as the Bank may agree) establish and, thereafter, maintain in
operation three working groups which shall comprise staff from the
Borrower's departments and agencies concerned with the Project and
other experts as needed and whose work shall be coordinated by the
secretariat referred to above.
Part II: Specific Implementation of the Project
A.   Responsibility for implementation of Parts A and B of the
Project shall be carried out on the following basis:
(a) TCDD shall: (i) procure part of the equipment for Part
A of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement, it being understood that common specifi-
cations shall be agreed upon with DB and the Bank and that such
part of the equipment so procured shall consist of shore cranes,
slipway equipment, mobile cranes, tractors, trailers, forklifts,
spare parts related to such foregoing equipment and spare parts
for other miscellaneous equipment already in use in TCDD Ports,
(ii) promptly after procurement, transfer to DB all equipment
(including spare parts) to be used in DB Project Ports; and (iii)
carry out, or cause to be carried out (with the assistance of LI,
as needed), all civil works included in Part B (a) (i) of the
Project and (with the assistance of DB and LI, as needec) all
civil works included in Part B (a) (ii) of the Project.
(b) DB shall: (i) procure part of the equipment for Part
A of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement, it being understood that common specifi-
cations shall be agreed upon with TCDD and the Bank and that such
part of the equipment so procured shall consist of propulsion,
navigational and auxiliary equipment for the floating craft
included in Part A (c), (d) and (f) of the Project, generators,
spare parts related to such foregoing equipment, spare parts for


﻿- 26 -
other miscellaneous equipment already in use in DB Ports and the
equipment included in Part A (e) of the Project, (ii) promptly
after procurement, transfer to TCDD all equipment (including spare
parts) to be used in TCDD Project Ports or to LI all equipment
(including spare parts) to be used by LI, as the case may be, and
(iii) carry out, or cause to be carried out (with the assistance
of LI as needed), all civil works referred to in Part B (b) of the
Project.
B.   The Borrower shall have general responsibility for carrying
out Part C of the Project and shall cause DB and TCDD to set up
and operate common training programs, under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank and with the assistance of consulting services,
all to be coordinated by the Borrower's ministry responsible for
transportation.
C.   Part D of the Project shall be carried out as follows:
(a) Phases (I) and (II) of Part D (a) of the Project shall
be implemented by TCA with the assistance of consulting services
to be provided under arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank, such Phases (I) and (II) to be completed on or before
July 31, 1980 and July 31, 1981,(or such other date as the Bank
may agree), respectively.
(b) Phase (III) of Part D (a) of the Project shall be
implemented by the Borrower with the assistance of consulting
services to be provided, under arrangements satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank, such Phase III to be started not later
than four months after the completion of Phase II (or such other
time period as the Bank may agree).
(c) For the purpose of (1) coordinating the supply of
information to the Borrower's agency or department concerned with
the implementation of any or all of the above Phases of Part D (a)
of the Project and (2) reviewing comments on the draft reports
of the study and (3) providing such agency or department with
general guidance for the study and its updating, the Borrower
shall, on or before August 31, 1979 (or such other date as the
Bank may agree) establish and, thereafter, maintain in operation
an inter-ministerial steering committee for port sector planning,
such committee to comprise representatives of the ministries
responsible for communications and public works, SPO, the Istanbul
Master Plan Bureau, the Istanbul Municipality, DB, TCDD and the
other Borrower's departments or agencies concerned with port
development in Turkey.


﻿- 27 -
(d) The Borrower shall have general responsibility for
carrying out Part D (b) of the Project, it being understood that
the Borrower shall cause DB and TCDD with respect to DB and TCDD
Ports, respectively, to carry out Part D (b) (i) and (ii) of the
Project under the coordination of the Borrower's ministry respon-
sible for transportation, pursuant to, arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank and with the assistance of consulting services, such
Part D (b) (i) and (ii) of the Project to be completed on or
before October 31, 1980 (or such other date as the Bank may
agree).
(e) The Borrower, TCDD and/or DB, as the case may be,
shall provide the Bank with copies of the studies to be carried
out under Part D of the Project, promptly upon their completion,
and shall consult with the Bank on the action proposed to be taken
by the Borrower, TCDD and/or DB, as the case may be, as a follow-
up of such studies.


