Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
lFILE OOPY
Report No. P-3734-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 10.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 24, 1984
T'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar
with a par value equal to the U.S. dollar. The U.S.
dollar is legal tender in Liberia.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  -  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       African Development Bank
MCIT      Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transport
MPEA      Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
MPW       Ministry of Public Works
NPA       National Port Authority
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
Fifth Highway Project
Credit and Project Swmmary
Borrower:       The Republic of Liberia
Amount:         SDR 10.9 million (US$11.4 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:   The project seeks to improve Liberia's public road network by
strengthening the Ministry of Public Works' (MPW) capacity to
carry out road maintenance. It provides for: (i) technical
assistance and training to improve MPW's financial and
administrative management and help plan and execute the
maintenance program; (ii) a three-year routine maintenance
program covering the entire public road network of about
4,725 miles; and (iii) periodic maintenance on about 450 miles
of priority primary and secondary roads through rehabilitation
or regravelling. Liberia's population would benefit from
reduced transportation and vehicle operating costs; rural areas
that are now difficult to reach due to the poor state of the
road network would have improved access to markets. The main
risks of the project are that planned improvements in "W's
management performance would not be fully realized and that the
Government would be unable to provide sufficient funding,
reducing maintenance output. The project would minimize these
risks by providing technical assistance and gradually phasing
in the Government's contribution to incremental recurrent
maintenance costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
----- (US$ million) -----
Local    Foreign    Total
Equipment and Workshop Rehabilitation                  0.5         1.9       2.4
Periodic Maintenance - Gravel Roads                    1.7         5.6       7.3
Materials for Routine Maintenance                      0.7         3.5       4.2
Consultant Services & Training                         0.4         2.3       2.7
PPF                                                    0.1         0.3       0.4.
Base Cost                                          3.4       13.6       17.0
Physical Contingencies                                 0.1         0.3       0.4
Price Contingencies                                    0.4         1.6       2.0
TOTAL                                       3.9        15.5       19.4
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                                        0.5       10.9       11.4
USAID Grant                                       0.7        2.4        3.1
Government                                        2.7        2.2        4.9
3.9       15.5       19.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                 -------------- (US$ million) --------------
FY84      FY85       FY86       FY87      FY88
Annual                      1.4        4.0         2.9       2.1        1.0
Cumulative                  1.4        5.4         8.3      10.4       11.4
Economic Rate of Return: Over 100 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: 4393-LBR dated February 21, 1984
Map:   IBRD 16873



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of SDR 10.9 million (US$11.4
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fifth Highway
Project. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) would
cofinance the project by contributing a development assistance grant of' US$3.1
million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report, entitled "Liberia:  Recent Economic Developments
and Medium-Term Prospects" (No. 4178-LBR), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on.December 30, 1982. An economic mission visited Liberia in
October 1983 to review the current economic situation; its principal findings
are included in the following paragraphs. Country data are shown in Annex I.
Basic Economic Characteristics
3.       Liberia has a dual economy.  A foreign controlled enclave sector,
endowed with advanced technologies and skills, co-exists with a traditional
agricultural economy which uses rudimentary technologies. The wholly export
oriented enclave or "concession" sector includes iron ore mining, rubber
production and forestry, provides about 90 percent of the export earnings and
generates about one quarter of the GDP. The links between the concession
sector with the rest of the economy are, on the whole, weak. However,
stronger links exist in the case of the rubber industry; these take the form
of demand for labor services (about 7 percent of the labor force is employed
by rubber concessions) and material inputs. Contributions by the concessions
to Government revenues in the form of profit sharing and royalties provided
the strongest linkage with the rest of the economy until 1976/77. Because of
low iron ore profits since the late seventies, contributions to revenues now
mainly take the form of income tax levied on employees and, to a limited
extent, indirectly in the form of duties on imported inputs which are not
exempt under the Concession Agreements. These revenues have historically
accounted for about one half of total Government income.
4.       Outside the enclave sector, Liberia is not unlike other less
developed African nations; about 66 percent of the population live in rural
areas and depend for their livelihood on agriculture; the bulk of them are
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Second Bong County Agricultural Development Project (P-3727-LBR)
of February 21, 1984.



- 2 -
traditional farmers producing mainly rice and cassava for subsistence.
Rubber, coffee and cocoa are the country's major cash crops; yet they
contribute less than 10 percent of GDP and only 18 percent of export earn-
ings. Almost all rubber is processed and exported by foreign companies. Non-
agricultural productive activities outside the enclave sector are very
limited; the largest of these, manufacturing, contributes about 5 percent of
GDP. This structural imbalance in the economy between the modern, largely
enclave sector, and the traditional agricultural sector is reflected in a
sharply skewed income distribution. With a population of about 1.9 million,
average per capita GNP in 1982 was estimated at about US$510. However,
80 percent of Liberia's households received less than 30 percent of total
income.
5.       The effectiveness of Liberia's public institutions is severely handi-
capped by a scarcity of trained manpower at all levels. Though Liberia has
competent managers in public office, they are insufficient in number and their
effectiveness is handicapped by a shortage of trained people for middle man-
agement positions. Organizational weaknesses furthermore result in poor
communications within the Government and its agencies and in duplication of
effort. These inadequacies of public institutions are not only a bottleneck
to the effectiveness of day-to-day government but to the public sector's
development effort as a whole, since the large number of unproductive workers
on the public payroll swell the Government's current expenditures and prevent
the accumulation of savings for an adequate investment effort.
6.       With a crude birth rate of 49.7 and a crude death rate of 14.2 per
1,000 population, Liberia's annual rate of population increase of 3.4 percent
is among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. The rate has risen from 3.1
percent during the 1960s and is expected to accelerate to 3.7 percent by the
year 2000. Consequently, on the basis of past trends in birth and death
rates, the current population of about 1.9 million is projected to double by
the year 2000. The high population growth rate has put pressure on social
services, infrastructure, etc. and, in the light of a declining economy,
unemployment has risen, especially in Monrovia where migration from rural
areas accentuates the problem.
7.       About 58 percent of Liberia's domestic energy needs are met by local
fuelwood and charcoal, another 35 percent from imported petroleum and its
products, and 7 percent from domestic hydroelectric power. Petroleum imports
cost Liberia $129.6 million in 1981, or 24 percent of export earnings, as
compared to $12 million or 5 percent of export earnings a decade earlier.
Although the reduction of world oil prices in late 1982 and early 1983 pro-
vided some relief, reducing the ratio of oil imports to total export earnings
to 20 percent, problems of paying for oil imports continue to mount and it is
clear that Liberia should seek adjustments in its use of imported oil by
substituting domestic hydropower to the extent possible and by conserving
energy so as to alleviate its balance of payments and fiscal problems.
8.       The country has poorly developed economic and social infrastructure
outside the enclave areas. An incomplete and inadequate road system is poorly
maintained. Only 20 percent of the non-enclave population has access to
dependable water supply, while education and training have been inequitably



- 3 -
distributed and are of inadequate quality. The health status of the majority
of Liberians remains poor--life expectancy at birth is estimated at 54 years,
and morbidity and mortality are high. The infant mortality rate is 152 per
thousand live births (1981). The existing health care system is inadequate
and unsuited to the country's health problems. Poor health and malnutrition
continue to plague vulnerable segments of the population, especially pregnant
and lactating women as well as young children.
Recent Economic Performance
9.       The military Government which took power in April 1980 inherited a
sluggish and strained economy in which GDP growth had averaged less than 1.0
percent per annum between 1974 and 1979. The economy was suffering from the
effects of a heavy oil import bill and a stiff debt burden at a time when the
external demand for Liberia's products was depressed. The commodity concen-
tration of Liberia's exports aggravated the impact of the international reces-
sion. In addition, doubling of the public sector minimum wage in 1980
exacerbated the fiscal crisis. Capital flight and a severe shortage of public
funds for investment also hurt the economy. The depletion of the banking
sector deposit base, restricted external credit lines and a general liquidity
crisis made management of the economy particularly difficult during the
present administration's first two years of office and still continue to
plague economic management. To meet its foreign currency obligations, the
Government relies on offshore tax revenues paid by concessions and on dis-
bursements of external loans and grants. Because of decreased prices for
export commodities and low export earnings of concessionaires, their contribu-
tion to the Government's offshore revenue has decreased drastically in recent
years. Thus, the public sector balance of payments has accordingly deterio-
rated and the National Bank of Liberia continues to have difficulty in
obtaining foreign resources to meet the cost of oil imports, service debt and
public sector import payments.
10.      There has been a decline in GDP each year since 1980.  Between 1980
and 1982, real GDP declined by about 15 percent and real consumption by over
22 percent. The decline in the economy is mainly attributable to the con-
tinuing weak performance of exports. Exports account for a high share of GDP
(62 percent in 1981). During 1982, export earnings fell by 9.8 percent (from
$540.7 million in 1981 to $487.4 million in 1982) due to decreased earnings
from iron ore, rubber, logs, cocoa and sawn timber. This deterioration in
export earnings continued in 1983, with revenue for the period January to June
showing a 10 percent decline over the corresponding period in 1982. Because
of the dominance of iron ore whose market prospects still look grim, prospects
for export earnings in the short run are not promising but the recent upsurge
in world rubber prices have made prospects look better, especially in the
medium term, as the recession in the OECD countries ends. However, in order
to respond to stronger demand in the medium-term, substantial investments need
to be undertaken, especially in the iron ore sector.
11.      After deteriorating considerably in 1980 following the doubling of
the minimum wage, fiscal performance improved as a result of expenditure
restraints under successive stabilization programs supported by the IMF.
Total expenditures declined from $385.4 million in FY82 to $343.5 million in



- 4 -
FY83. While expenditure restraint has been successful, revenue performance
has been disappointing in part due to the deterioration in the economy but
also due to poor tax administration. Revenue and grants totalled $256.3
million in FY83 compared with $279.3 million in FY82 and $283.0 million in the
budget estimates. As a result, a large deficit developed in the last quarter
of FY83 resulting in borrowings from the banking system of $77.5 million, com-
pared to $32.0 in the budget.
Creditworthiness
12.      Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was US$635.7
million at end December 1981 and grew by less than one percent to $641.2
million at end 1982. The Bank Group share of the public debt outstanding and
disbursed was 19.7 percent in 1982 and is expected to increase to about 23.2
percent by end 1984. As a proportion of external public debt servicing
liability, the Bank Group's share was estimated at about 26.1 percent in 1982
but is projected to decline to about 16.9 percent in 1984. Debt service
payments as a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were
estimated at about 7.0 percent in 1982 but would have been higher had it not
been for the debt relief provided under the Paris Club in 1980 and 1981 as
explained below. Public debt service payments as a percentage of Government
revenues (a more meaningful indicator for Liberia which uses the US dollar as
a medium of exchange) reached 22 percent in 1980. This upsurge in the debt
service ratio occurred primarily as a result of short-maturity loans
contracted by Liberia in the late seventies to finance OAU-related expendi-
tures and to meet growing budgetary deficits. The increase in debt servicing
obligations created severe pressures on Liberia's public finances. The
Government therefore sought and obtained the assistance of the Paris Club in
rescheduling its external public sector debt of US$32 million maturing during
the period July 1980 to December 1981; the rescheduled debt is to be repaid
over 9 years, including four years of grace. Debt service problems, however,
persisted. In December 1981 further relief was requested and Liberia obtained
an 18-month extension, from October 1, 1982 to June 30, 1983 subject to
renewal of the standby agreement with the IMF when it expired in September
1982. This condition was satisfied as explained below.
13.      Liberia has maintained a standby arrangement with the IMF since mid-
1980 except during the fourth quarter of FY83 when the unresolved issue of
US$26 million arrears to the oil facility banks and a shortfall in revenue
made Liberia ineligible to draw SDR 20 million. The current program covering
FY84 with new revenue measures was approved by the IMF Board on September 14,
1983 and according to the review undertaken in December 1983, Liberia satis-
fied the quantitative performance criteria for end-November. In addition, an
agreement with the London Club to refinance a private bank syndicated loan of
about US$27 million was signed in December 1982 and became effective early
1983. These measures temporarily ameliorated the debt service burden. As a
result, debt service as a proportion of Government revenue declined to about
14 percent in 1982. However, Liberia continued to face severe debt service
problems, and in 1983 requested further debt relief from the Paris and London
Clubs. The Paris Club considered Liberia's third request on December 22, 1983
and offered relief for one year on official loans and insured export credits



- 5 -
contracted before January 1, 1983. Eligible maturities covered by the agree-
ment are estimated at US$23.6 million. Of this amount, 90 percent (US$21.2
million) will be consolidated and repaid over 8-1/2 years, including four
years of grace. The 10 percent non-consolidated portion is to be repaid in
four equal annual payments beginning on the last date of the consolidation
period (June 30, 1984). Negotiations for further debt relief from the London
Club, including settlement of the US$26 million arrears under the oil
facility, are expected to be concluded soon.
14.      Although the movement in world prices of Liberia's main export com-
modities in 1981 and 1982 was not favorable, the growth in export earnings is
projected to be higher in subsequent years as a result of the likely strength-
ening in demand for rubber and timber and, to a lesser extent, iron ore.
Forecasts for natural rubber and log prices indicate a consistently upward
movement. Other ongoing agriculture projects (particularly for coffee, cocoa
and palm oil), and exploration of other mining resources, including oil, gold
and barite, may help diversify the economy and could result in an acceleration
in the rate of growth of exports during the next three to four years. Public
revenues would benefit from these increased export earnings. Assuming that
exports grow at a possible average of 4.5 percent per annum between 1983 and
1986, and the Government continues to implement stabilization and reform
policies, Government revenues could grow at an average of about 9.0 percent
per annum increasing from US$238.0 million in 1982 to US$328.3 million in
1986. On the expenditure side, performance in FY83 has demonstrated the
Government's ability to reduce expenditures. If this effort continues, growth
of recurrent expenditures could be kept to about 1 percent per annum in real
terms in the short to medium term. Thus, prospects are clearly contingent
upon the resumption of growth in the industrialized countries to which Liberia
supplies primary goods and upon the successful implementation of a number of
policy measures over the next few years, e.g., a continued reduction in the
size of the Government budget deficit, further restraint on new commercial
borrowings and public sector credit expansion, increased mobilization of
public savings, maintenance of the traditional openness of the economy,
appropriate pricing and tariff policies, revival of investor confidence,
inflow of new private investment and further improvement in the coordination
of overall economic management.
15.      Even with the improved performance assumed above and the debt relief
already provided or anticipated in the near future, the debt burden is likely
to remain strenuous in the short-to-medium term. Debt service (interest and
amortization) on public and public guaranteed debt, as a percentage of budget
revenues, is projected at 32 percent in 1984 after taking account of all the
debt relief to be provided by the Paris and London Clubs. This debt service
ratio could not be reduced further because the remaining debt to multilateral
institutions and previously rescheduled loans is not subject to rescheduling.
Before 1981 Liberia's debt service burden was not as severe as it has become
in recent years. Bank group lending to Liberia was therefore a blend of IDA
credits and Bank loans. In view of the country's relatively low per capita
income and high public debt service liability, continued IDA assistance is
justified.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA 1/
16.      As of November 30, 1983 the Bank had approved 22 loans (including one
Tlhird Window loan) for projects in Liberia totalling US$155.22 million; there
have been 13 IDA credits totalling US$88.76 million, and one technical assis-
tance grant of US$200,000 for development planning. IFC has made two equity
investments totalling US$555,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for
Development and Investment (LBDI) and a further investment was approved by the
Executive Directors on August 30, 1983. The Bank Group assistance has finan-
ced roads, agricultural development, power, education, water supply, industry
and mining, small enterprises, and petroleum pre-exploration. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as
of November 30, 1983.
17.      Bank Group disbursements for projects in Liberia increased steadily
from FY78 to FY81 when disbursements were equivalent to 26 percent of credits
and loans outstanding at the beginning of that fiscal year. This performance
was made possible by close coordination with the budgetary authorities which
consistently earmarked sufficient counterpart resources to Bank Group
supported projects in Liberia. More recently, the Government has experienced
considerable difficulty in providing counterpart resources because of the
sharp deterioration in public finances discussed in Part I of this report.
Close monitoring of project implementation and continued coordination with the
budgetary authorities should avoid excessive delays in implementation due to
lack of counterpart resources. However, the Government's present resource
position is being taken into account in structuring new projects: their scope
:Ls being limited to essentials and as much foreign financing as possible is
being provided so as to reduce the need for Government contributions.
-18.     The objective of Bank Group operations is to obtain the adoption by
-the Government of policies which would be more conducive to renewed economic
growth.  In its lending operations the Bank Group is giving priority to:
(a)  strengthening institutions and policies in the public sector in order
to improve its efficiency, including improvement in the quality of
the public investment program;
(b)  consolidating development programs in sectors critical to the
country's development, with special emphasis on policies and programs
to improve the balance of payments;
(c) maintenance and rehabilitation programs that help to preserve exist-
ing capital; and
(d) improving the country's manpower resources.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Second Bong County Agricultural Development Project (P-3727-LBR)
of February 21, 1984.



-7-
19.      In support of the objectives of increasing production as well as
improving income distribution, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture
and rural development. The Bank Group is financing two integrated agricul-
tural development projects: the first phase Bong County and the second phase
Lofa County integrated agricultural development projects. These projects are
designed to (a) assist subsistence farmers expand their production base and
income by increasing their productivity through support services and infra-
structure, and (b) help diversify the country's export and revenue base. A
rubber development project, co-financed with the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), is designed to increase exports and improve the producti-
vity and incomes of smallholder farmers. A forestry development project; which
the Bank is co-financing with the African Development Bank (ADB) and the
German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), seeks to strengthen the Govern-
ment's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program, and help
Liberia better manage and exploit its forestry resources. An oil palm
project, co-financed by the ADB and the CDC, is helping expand and diversify
the country's export and revenue base, provide employment, increase the
incomes of rural families, and strengthen the institutional capability to
develop oil palm.
20.      In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is also
assisting the Government develop the manufacturing sector. A credit for a
small and medium scale enterprises project approved in November 1980, seeks to
stimulate economic activity and employment by providing credit and technical
assistance. While reinforcing the Government's efforts to become less
dependent on mining, the Bank has granted loans for a project to rehabilitate
a mine operated by the National Iron Ore Company. A petroleum exploration
promotion project, for which a loan was approved in October 1980, is to
develop Liberia's hydrocarbon potential by attracting oil companies to take
oil exploration permits in Liberia. The Bank Group has played a prominent
role in financing power and urban service facilities. Through four projects
in the power sector, the Bank has helped expand the Liberia Electricity
Corporation's (LEC) thermal generating facilities to meet current demand,
strengthened LEC's management, and extended connections to poor urban house-
holds in Monrovia. A water supply project for which a credit was granted in
1978 helped rehabilitate and expand the Monrovia water supply system, extend
water distribution to lower income groups in metropolitan areas, and
strengthen the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC). An urban develop-
ment project, for which a credit was approved in April 1982, seeks to improve
the living conditions of Monrovia's urban poor by (a) upgrading infrastructure
and providing essential services in three of its most needy neighborhoods, and
(b) strengthening key institutions to provide more effective management and
establish a solid revenue base in the municipality.
21.      The proposed project would be an integral part of the Bank Group's
strategy for assisting Liberia. In helping the Ministry of Public Works make
more effective use of financial and human resources at its disposal, an
example would be set for the rest of the public sector, many parts of which
require management improvements. By helping upgrade the Ministry of Public
Works' capacity to carry out road maintenance, the project would also help
Liberia preserve capital already invested in its road infrastructure,
preventing its rapid deterioration under weather conditions which are not



- 8 -
favorable to road maintenance. The project would also support the agricul-
tural sector, which employs about 70 percent of the labor force and accounts
for a significant proportion of production and exports. If road links between
the interior part of the country and the domestic markets and export points in
the coastal region should be interrupted, production and exports would be
seriously affected and employment in rural regions would be reduced. Given
that agricultural and forestry production in the interior of Liberia is mostly
accounted for by smallholders, the indirect income distribution effects of the
project would also be considerable.
22.      For the future, the Bank Group is helping the Government develop a
program of economic structural adjustment to deal with the country's severe
resource constraint and decline in export earnings. Preparation of this pro-
gram is in the initial stages, and discussions with the authorities have so
far met with an encouraging response. Further support for the agricultural
sector is also planned for the medium term, primarily to help relieve
constraints on increased production of export crops such as natural rubber,
which could yield quick return to the economy. A second oil exploration
project would also be appraised in the coming months; it would aim at
assisting the Government determine Liberia's hydrocarbon potential in
collaboration with international oil companies, one of which has already
agreed to initiate explorations in the country.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
23.      Liberia's transport system reflects the economy's dependence on
enclave iron ore mines, rubber plantations and forestry concessions. The
transport network consists of: about 6,200 miles of roads; three railways
operated and owned by the mining companies with about 300 miles of lines; four
seaports; two international airports and several domestic airports open to
commercial traffic. The system is generally adequate for the enclave opera-
tions, but the need to intensify the country's agricultural development effort
outside the enclaves calls for an improvement in the transport system, parti-
cularly roads. Many potentially productive agricultural areas have only poor
or circuitous connections to ports and the main domestic market center,
Monrovia.
24.      The railways are almost exclusively used to transport between 10 and
20 million tons of iron ore annually to the ports of Monrovia and Buchanan.
The ports of Greenville and Harper are mainly used for the shipment of timber.
Domestic air transport carries few passengers while coastal shipping is under-
developed. Road transport, the predominant mode for passengers and goods
other than iron ore, is concentrated around Monrovia and along the Monrovia-
Ganta axis (see Map 16873).



-9-
Sector Management
25.      Various ministries and agencies are responsible for formulating and
implementing sector policies and strategies. Overall management responsibi-
lity is vested in the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transport (MCIT).
Road development planning, construction and maintenance is the responsibility
of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW); the National Port Authority (NPA) is
charged with the development and administration of ports while the MCIT regu-
lates the road transport industry and determines air and maritime transport
policy. The railways are outside the Government's direct control. Transport
investment proposals are reviewed by the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Affairs (MPEA), which coordinates the Government's overall investment program
and foreign financing when required.
26.      Due to a shortage of qualified staff and poor coordination among the
various transport agencies, past sector development was largely based on ad
hoc decisions and not according to integrated transport plans. Efforts are
being made under the Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1664-LBR) to establish a
centralized planning capability within the Government to coordinate transport
development better and relate it to an overall development strategy.
27.      Liberia's Second Development Plan (FY82-FY85) has limited development
targets given the prevailing resource constraint. In the roads subsector, a
strategy of postponing most new highway investments while increasing emphasis
on feeder road development in support of agriculture has been adopted. Total
planned public expenditure for transport development during the Second Plan
period is set at US$159.3 million, of which the roads sector accounts for
68 percent (US$109.0 million), civil aviation 1 percent (US$1.5 million) and
ports 31 percent (US$48.8 million). This investment program is in accord with
the needs of the sector, except that the proposed expansion of Monrovia Port
appears larger than required. However, since more than two years of the Four
Year Plan period have already lapsed with very little investment due -to the
Government's budgetary difficulties, the Plan's investment targets wiLl not be
met.
The Highway Transport System
28.      Liberia's road network consists of about 4,725 miles of public roads
and almost 1,500 miles of private roads built and maintained by the conces-
sions and partly open to public use. The public network is inadequate both in
extent and quality given present traffic levels and development needs. Only
366 miles of the public network are paved, while about 400 miles out of 2,100
miles of the all-weather laterite network are estimated to carry more than 300
vehicles per day and their paving would probably be justified. However, given
the shortage of resources the Government is experiencing, this is not fea-
sible; the priority needs are to maintain the existing network which, with a
few exceptions, is generally in a state of serious disrepair, and to construct
more feeder roads and tracks in support of agricultural development.
29.      The road transport industry is relatively open, with a sizeable
number of small private enterprises providing adequate goods and passenger
transport services. Regulations govern only vehicle registration, licensing



- 10 -
and inspection, tariff limits for inter-city taxi and trucking services and
vehicle weight, dimensions and axle load limits. Control of axle-load legal
limits is not enforced though five weighbridges were procured by MPW in
1976. One weighbridge was assembled and installed but the access ramps have
not been built; enough parts of the other weighbridges are available to
assemble two more bridges. The Government has agreed to install the remaining
weighbridges and provide sufficient funds for their operation and maintenance
(Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
30.      Vehicle registration records indicate that the vehicle fleet has
stagnated in recent years, fluctuating around a total of 18,000 units. About
63 percent are private cars and taxis, 29 percent trucks and 8 percent buses.
Enforcement of vehicle registration has been lax especially since the military
coup in 1980 and as a consequence the actual number of vehicles in use may be
somewhat higher.
Highway Administration
31.      MPW has responsibility for the planning, design, construction and
maintenance of all public roads and buildings, but various other ministries
and governmental agencies have independently become involved in feeder road
development. Coordination has been poor; at times feeder roads of low quality
have been constructed and considerable uncertainty exists about the responsi-
bility for their future maintenance. The transport planning and coordination
unit supported under the Feeder Roads Project (para. 26) is expected to
address this issue. After a period of satisfactory performance during the
second half of the seventies when MPW received sizeable budgets for new road
construction and reasonable funding levels for road maintenance, MPW's ability
to execute its tasks effectively began to deteriorate as a result of progres-
sively declining budget appropriations, a weakened management, and increa-
singly lax administrative and accounting controls.
32.      The proposed project would attempt to reverse this decline by
providing technical assistance to strengthen MPW's technical and financial
management in key areas and by ensuring that minimum road maintenance funding
is provided. The Government has agreed to install by July 1, 1984 an improved
accounting system for road maintenance and from fiscal year 1985 introduce a
new functional recurrent budget satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.06
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government has also agreed to
allocate specified minimum amounts for materials, fuel, spare parts and other
supplies for road maintenance from the second half of FY 1984 to the first
half of FY 1987 (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
33.      MPW employs a staff of 3,200 of which about 2,200 are in the
Operations Bureau and are assigned to road maintenance. The professional
staff of MPW includes 45 engineers, 8 architects, 1 transport economist and
2 accountants. Management is entirely Liberian with only a few expatriates on
local contracts remaining in technical positions. Senior staff is generally
well qualified, many having studied abroad. However, a large number of
experienced professionals left MPW after 1980 and as a consequence there is a
scarcity of good middle-level engineers and managers. MPW's non-professional
staff receives basic training at its Road Maintenance Training Center which



- 11 -
was established with assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany. At
present, the Center is being reinforced by instructors and teaching aids
provided under a Japanese loan. Further on-the-job training of MPW staff
would be undertaken by consultants to be engaged under the proposed project.
Road Construction and Maintenance
34.      Major road construction is normally executed by foreign contractors
but MPW's Bureau of Construction has developed the capability to undertake
force account construction works, particularly of secondary and feeder roads.
However, the efficiency and quality of these force account works has, al
times, been less than satisfactory and MPW is, partly as a result, expressing
renewed interest in helping develop the domestic contracting industry. While
domestic contractors do not have the capacity to construct paved roads, they
have periodically constructed rural secondary roads, private roads for con-
cessionaires and have been sub-contractors to foreign contractors. The few
active domestic contractors have fair engineering competence but are generally
under-equipped, lack adequate managerial expertise, have insufficient working
capital and have been hampered by lack of job continuity due to the decline in
road construction activity in recent years. To further the development of
domestic contractors, the Feeder Roads Project is providing technical assist-
ance to train and assist domestic contractors in work planning, job cost
estimation, bid preparation, etc., and includes US$4.0 million for feeder
roads construction by domestic contractors. Bids for the first tranche of
roads to be constructed are expected to be invited soon. In addition, under
the proposed project funds would be earmarked for regravelling works on the
primary network to be carried out by local contractors, thereby providing them
with continuous work that would enable them to improve their capabilities.
35.      While road user taxes (mainly fuel taxes and import duties on vehi-
cles and spare parts) are more than adequate to meet maintenance funding
needs, the severe financial constraint experienced by the Government over the
last few years has resulted in insufficient budgetary allocations to MPW for
recurrent maintenance expenditures. Furthermore, actual expenditures increas-
ingly went to meet MPW's payroll, leaving progressively smaller amounts for
essential maintenance inputs, such as fuel and spare parts to maintain and
operate existing equipment. Consequently, routine maintenance of the network
has been only partial and periodic maintenance negligible, creating a substan-
tial maintenance backlog. Although the Government is taking steps to address
some of the managerial weaknesses in MPW and making an effort to restructure
MPW's maintenance budget by increasing funding for material inputs, external
assistance for operating costs and expert services are needed to reestablish
MPW's maintenance capability.
Past Bank Group Assistance
36.      Bank Group assistance for Liberia's highway sector totals US$63.7
million for five projects, of which three have been completed; besides these
road projects, some of the agricultural development projects supported by the
Bank Group also included rural road components. The First Highway Project
(Loan 368-LBR, US$4.25 million, 1964), which was completed in 1969, financed



- 12 -
reconstruction of two primary roads and provided equipment for road mainte-
nance. One of the roads, the Paynesville-Robertsfield road (28 miles),
suffered rapid pavement failures due to pervious bituminous surfacing and has
needed continuous repairs and eventually was reconstructed under the Fourth
Highway Project. The experience, a frequent one in the early days of bitumi-
nous road construction in all African countries, provided a useful lesson on
the care needed in selecting materials and on the importance of carefully
supervising the construction of such roads. The Second Highway Project
(Loan 907/Credit 395-LBR, US$5.6 million, 1973) financed the construction of
the Monrovia Bypass, provided additional road maintenance equipment and
technical assistance for road maintenance and included preinvestment studies.
The project was completed successfully at the beginning of 1978. The Third
Highway Project (Loan 1156-LBR, US$27.5 million, 1975) included the construc-
tion of a road and river crossing in Monrovia, construction of the Totota-
Ganta section of the principal trunk road into the interior, equipment and
operating funds for a feeder road construction brigade in support of the Lofa
County Agricultural Development Project, and technical assistance for road
transport planning and studies. The project was completed in 1981, more than
two years behind schedule but within the original cost estimate. The Project
Completion Report issued on December 30, 1982 concluded that, in retrospect,
it might perhaps have been better to split the Totota-Ganta road works into
two contracts.
37.      The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1573-LBR, 1978, US$13.8 million)
included rehabilitation of the Paynesville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield
roads, technical assistance for the organization and execution of road mainte-
nance, and technical assistance for road transport planning and studies. All
project components have been completed, except for the Paynesville-Totota road
and a feasibility study which was deferred. The Paynesville-Totota road reha-
bilitation suffered a substantial cost overrun due to a one-year delay in
contract award, a substantial increase in the scope of works due to faster
deterioration of the existing pavement than anticipated during the design
stage, and additional delays caused by the civil disturbance of 1980 and
subsequent contractor claims. Consequently, part of the road and a bridge
were left uncompleted. A supplemental credit (Credit 1311-LBR, 1982, US$1.8
million) was approved by the Executive Directors to help reconstruct the
bridge and update the engineering of the remaining roadworks. These activi-
ties were sucessfully completed by the end of 1983. The African Development
Bank (ADB) has agreed in principle to finance the remaining road works as a
separate project in 1984. As for the technical assistance for road
maintenance, satisfactory progress was made in the planning of road mainte-
nance but the improvement of actual maintenance operations was hampered by
insufficient operating funds, frequent changes in Government personnel and the
inability of the consultants to organize the field work effectively. The
Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1664-LBR, 1979, US$10.7 million) continues and
expands the feeder road activities started under the Third Highway Project.
It originally consisted of the construction or improvement of some 700 miles
of feeder roads, mostly in support of agricultural projects, related con-
sultant services, technical assistance for the development of the domestic
contracting industry, and technical assistance to strengthen the transport
coordinating role of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transport (MCIT).
From the onset the project suffered from inadequate local funding, poor



- 13 -
management and procurement problems and has suffered substantial delays. At
the request of the Government, the Bank approved a loan amendment in September
1982 reducing the project's scope, increasing disbursement rates and setting
up a revolving fund to ensure timely availability of operating funds for the
project. Simultaneously, the Government took steps to strengthen project
management and, as a result, feeder road construction was resumed in late 1982
and is showing increasing progress.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.      As originally conceived, the proposed project was to continue up-
grading the primary network by paving road sections identified and prepared
under earlier projects and to continue improving road maintenance. However,
in view of the Government's limited ability to provide counterpart funds for
new road construction, the deterioration in MPW's management capability and
the inadequacy of present maintenance operations, it was agreed with the
Government that the proposed project should focus on strengthening MPW's
management and on improving road maintenance. The project was prepared by the
Government with the assistance of consultants under the Fourth Highway
Project. It was appraised in September/October 1982 and negotiations were
held in Washington in December, 1983. The Liberian delegation was headed by
the Honorable James Burphy, Minister of Public Works. The U.S. Agency for
International Development was represented by Messrs. Julius Cole and David
Walsh. Annex III contains supplementary project data. The Staff Appraisal
Report No. 4393-LBR of February 21, 1984, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
Project Description
39.      The proposed project includes: (i) technical assistance and training
to improve MPW's financial and administrative management and help execute
maintenance activities; (ii) a three-year routine maintenance program covering
the entire public road network of about 4,725 miles; and (iii) periodic
maintenance on about 450 miles of gravel roads by both force account and
contractors.
40.      The proposed technical assistance would strengthen MPW's financial
and administrative management and assist to plan and execute the maintenance
program. Under a Project Preparation Facility advance of $340,000 granted in
May 1983, funding for about 30 man-months of consultant services was provided
to start these activities, which would continue under the project with an
additional 174 man-months of consultant services. Furthermore, about 10 man-
months in short-term consultant services would be included to help the
technical assistance team prepare a follow-up maintenance program. Consultant
services would also be included in the project to verify the propriety of
project expenditures periodically. Under the overseas training program, a
number of mechanics that have received basic training in MPW's Road Mainte-
nance Training Center would be sent abroad to receive complementary vocational
training so as to upgrade their skills in heavy equipment repair and workshop
management. This would prepare them for eventual assignment to supervisory



- 14 -
positions in MPW's workshop organization. Some scholarships would also be
provided to train MPW staff in accounting and business administration to
strengthen MPW's management capability.
41.      The routine maintenance program would initially cover the all-weather
road network of 2,450 miles and would gradually be expanded to include the
2,280 miles of dry weather roads. In the face of budgetary constraints,
routine maintenance operations have been set at minimum standards compatible
with the type of road and level of traffic, and would give priority to the
most urgent needs. Spot and emergency repairs would be carried out where
required to ensure road serviceability. Maintenance operations, such as
grading, compacting and anti-corrugation brushing, would mainly be carried out
with mechanical equipment; pothole filling, patching, emergency repairs, and
shoulder and structure clearing would mostly be done by manual labor. Given
the high wage rates prevailing in Liberia (about US$10 per working day) more
labor-intensive maintenance does not seem justified. MPW's road maintenance
equipment fleet is adequate in number and basic condition but a few additional
items of equipment would be procured to balance the equipment available to
work brigades. The Government has agreed to use all existing road maintenance
equipment exclusively for the purpose of carrying out the project and that it
would maintain the equipment adequately thereafter (Sections 3.03(b) and 3.10
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Some of the workshops would also
be upgraded and equipped under the project with the necessary machine and hand
tools.
42.      As part of a longer term effort to restructure the maintenance
budget, the Government intends to carry out a phased program of payroll
reductions by gradually eliminating maintenance staff surpluses and by hiring
workers for the dry season only, during which they can do road maintenance
work, rather than all year round as has been the practice up to now. These
policy changes would make it possible to redress the imbalance that has
existed up to now between wage and materials allocations in the road
maintenance budget.
43.      Between 1980 and 1982 the Operations Bureau set up three regravelling
brigades with equipment obtained under a Japanese equipment loan, but the
brigades were only able to function intermittently for lack of operating
funds, thus creating a substantial regravelling backlog. The project would
help to reduce the periodic maintenance backlog. Road upgrading works would
be limited to an absolute minimum with a view to maximizing regravelling
mileage. The Government has agreed to (i) limit upgrading earthworks to no
more than 10 percent of total regravelling volume; and (ii) starting
December 1, 1984 review with the Association once every six months the
physical progress of work done by MPW's regravelling brigades (Section 3.07 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The works would be carried out by
the existing force account brigades but, in addition, part would be let to
contractors to further the development of the local contracting industry and
speed up project execution. The Government would furnish IDA, no later than
May 15 of each year of project implementation and for five years thereafter,
for its review and comment, the maintenance budget and work program proposed
for the following fiscal year, and has agreed not to undertake any activities
in the sector which would impair the efficient carrying out of the project
(Sections 3.11 and 3.12 of the draft Development. Credit Agreement).



15 -
Project Execution
44.      MPW would be responsible, through its technical services and field
units, for all aspects of project execution. Bidding documents for goods and
civil works would be prepared by the Government with the assistance of consul-
tants. Project implementation is expected to take three years. Under the PPF
advance, the technical assistance component was started in September 1983.
Project Cost and Financing
45.      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$19.4 million, of which US$14.5 million are capital costs and US$4.9
million incremental recurrent costs. Non-waived taxes and duties amount to
US$0.7 million. The foreign exchange cost is US$11.5 million for capital
costs and US$4.0 million for incremental recurrent costs. Local costs net of
taxes and duties amount to US$3.8 million. Project costs are based on
November 1983 prices, and a summary breakdown is given in the Credit and
Project Summary. The cost estimates are based on data and experience in
Liberia and neighboring countries. The cost per man-month of expatriate
consultant services is estimated to average US$13,000, including fees,
international travel and local subsistence, which is in accord with the
Region's experience. Physical contingencies have only been applied to
consulting services and equipment since the periodic and routine maintenance
elements are based on flexible programs. Price contingencies have been calcu-
lated using the following expected inflation rates: 8 percent in 1983; 7.5
percent in 1984; 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent in 1986.
46.      IDA and USAID would finance 75 percent of project costs net of taxes.
The IDA Credit of $11.4 million equivalent would cover 66 percent of project
capital costs and 38 percent of incremental recurrent costs of materials on a
declining basis (Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). USAID
has agreed to provide a development assistance grant of US$3.1 million to
finance maintenance works done by contractors and training costs. The Govern-
ment would contribute US$4.9 million, or 25 percent of project costs. To
ensure that MPW has sufficient working capital to meet those expenses not
financed under the Credit, the Government would open a Project Account to be
used exclusively for payment of goods and services required for the project.
An initial deposit of $400,000 would be made a condition of effectiveness of
the Credit and a further deposit of $200,000 would be made by December 1, 1984
(Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
47.      Contract periodic maintenance (US$2.9 million) and fellowships US$0.2
million are co-financed by USAID and would follow USAID procedures. Highway
maintenance equipment (US$0.7 million), and non-proprietary spare parts and
road building materials (US$3.0 million) would be grouped whenever possible
into contracts valued at US$60,000 or more and would be procured through
ICB. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the cif bid price of
imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Contracts for miscellaneous
equipment, tools, spare parts and materials valued at less than US$60,000



- 16 -
would be purchased through LCB, up to an aggregate limit of US$1.5 million.
Minor items of essential and urgently needed spare parts and materials costing
less than US$10,000 per purchase and aggregating not more than US$500,000 may
be procured by local shopping or by direct purchase in the case of a single
local supplier. Equipment overhaul by contract (up to US$0.6 million) would
be carried out by authorized dealers and proprietary spare parts (US$3.9
million) would be procured from the original manufacturers, under directly
negotiated contracts satisfactory to the Association. Fuel (US$6.6 million)
would be procured through LCB from local distribution companies. Consultants
would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines. All IDA-financed works
contracts, and goods contracts over US$60,000 each, would be subject to prior
review by the Association, which would cover about 80 percent of the total
value of such contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-
award reviews.
Disbursements
48.      Disbursement of the IDA Credit would be on the basis of 100 percent
of foreign costs and 90 percent of total expenditures procured locally for
equipment, tools, spare parts for equipment overhaul and contract equipment
overhaul; 80 percent of materials costs for force account regravelling; and
100 percent of foreign costs of consultant services. For materials for
routine maintenance, IDA would disburse 30 percent of total expenditures made
before 1985, 24 percent in 1985 and 15 percent made after 1985. The balance
outstanding of the Project Preparation Facility would be refinanced out of the
IDA Credit.
49.      As discussed in Part I of this report, the Government faces severe
financial constraints which make it difficult for it to provide the working
capital required to execute the project. In view of this, it is recommended
that SDR 575,000 (US$600,000 equivalent) from the IDA Credit be advanced to a
Special Account which the GovernmXent would open in the National Bank of
Liberia (Section 2.02(c) and Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Opening of the Special Account would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The account would be replenished by the Association on receipt of disbursement
requests supported by appropriate documentation.
50.      Disbursements for equipment, tools, spare parts for equipment
overhaul, contract equipment overhaul by authorized dealers and consultant
services would be made against full documentation submitted to IDA.
Withdrawal applications for materials costs of routine and periodic mainte-
nance by force account would be supported by certificates of expenditure which
would be checked in the course of project supervision.
Audit
51.      The Government would have all project-related accounts audited yearly
by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit reports would
be in a form acceptable to IDA and would include a separate opinion on the
Special Account and on the records in support of statements of expenditure.



- 17 -
Benefits and Risks
52.      The main expected benefits of the project are that it would
strengthen MPW's managerial and financial accountability and improve the
coverage and efficiency of road maintenance, thereby preventing further
deterioration of capital invested in roads and equipment. This would reduce
transportation costs for both the urban and rural population.
53.      The economic justification of the project is based on an assessment
of economic costs and benefits with and without the project. Benefits include
a significant reduction in vehicle operating costs, savings from postponed
road reconstruction, improved access to markets and areas that are now diffi-
cult to reach due to the poor state of the road network, and enhancement of
the institutional capacity of the executing agency to carry out road mainte-
nance programs efficiently. The costs taken into account in the economic
evaluation include the incremental cost of routine maintenance, regravelling
and technical assistance; these represent 95 percent of total project costs.
The economic rate of return is well over 100 percent, which is not uncommon
for this type of project where relatively small outlays permit the realization
of sizeable benefits from past investments.
54.      The main risks of the project are that anticipated improvements in
MPW's management performance would not fully materialize and that the Govern-
ment would be unable to provide sufficient funding, reducing maintenance
output. As structured, the project attempts to minimize these risks by
providing technical assistance and gradually phasing in the Government's
contribution to incremental recurrent maintenance costs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and IDA as well as the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
56.      In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement which
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, special
conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (a) that the Project Account and
the Special Account have been opened (paras. 46 and 49); (b) that an initial
deposit of $400,000 in the Project Account has been made (para. 46); and (c)
that arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been made for obtaining
the USAID grant (para. 46).
57.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.      I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 24, 1984



ANNEX I
- 19-                                          Page 1
T A B L E  3A
LIBERIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960-'-b    1970/  ESTIMATE-B       AFRICA S. OF SARARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EH)
TOTAL                               111.4       111.4        111.4
AGRICULTURAL                          6.1         6.1          6.1
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                   170.0       270.0        520.0             1147.9                   1340.0
ENERGY CONSUlMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       96.0       600.0        502.0              724.2                    810.4
POPULATION AND VITAS STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     978.0      1335.0       1941.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)        20.5        26.2        33.7                28.5                     47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              3.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               12.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         8.8        12.0        16.8                56.5                     36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            160.3       220.3       306.5               131.8                    449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                          45.4        46.8         46.3               45.9                     43.9
15-64 YRS                          52.0        50.8        51.1                51.2                     52.8
65 AND ABOVE                        2.6         2.5         2.5                 2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                               2.8         3.1          3.4                2.8                      2.9
URBAN                               5.4         5.6          5.7                5.3                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         50.1        48.8        49.7                47.6                     42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         20.6        16.5         14.2               15.2                     12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         3.4         3.4                 3.2                      3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        96.0       101.0        91.0                95.7                     97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)      114.0       100.0       114.0                97.1                    102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           46.0        43.0        51.0                56.0                     72.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         11.0        12.0        13.0/c              17.2                     17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          45.5        39.6        33.1                23.6                     15.2
HEALTB
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        44.1        49.1         53.5               51.9                     57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       194.0       173.8       151.5               117.6                    104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         20.0/d             25.4                     59.3
URBAN                                ..          ..        64.07/              70.5                     84.9
RURAL                                ..          ..          6.07T             12.3                     37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         11.0/d
URBAN                                ..          ..        35.0/d.
RURAL                                ..          ..          6. 0T/Ad
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          12600.0     11750.0      9610.0/e           12181.6                   3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            1410.0/f    2670.0      1420.7Te            2292.0                   1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             710.0       590.0       700.0/e            1075.4                    643.3
URBAN                             180.0       190.0          ..               402.3                    545.0
RURAL                                ..           ..          ..             3926.7                   2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        27.7          ..                  ..                     26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               3.91          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               1.7/         ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..          ..                  ..                     46.2
URBAN                                ..          ..          ..                  ..                     77.6
RURAL                                ..           .           .                                         16.1



20-                                           ANNEX I
Page 2
T A B L E  3A
LIBERIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /11
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b_         lb  RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1S60        1970-  ESTIMATE-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
MDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     31.0         50.0         66.0                97.2                       89.6
MALE                     45.0         67.0         82.0               103.1                      104.8
FEMALE                   18.0         33.0         50.0                88.5                       72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      2.0          9.0         20.0                17.2                       41.7
MALE                      3.0         13.0         29.0                23.5                       52.8
FEMALE                    1.0          4.0         11.0                14.2                       31.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)            11.7          5.3          4.3                 5.2                       10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              32.0         36.0         25.0                42.9                       31.9
SECONDARY                            14.0         17.0         17.0                23.7                       23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 8.9/h       15.0/i       25.4                37.1                       43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.0         11.1          5.5/e              18.8                       18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          102.2        116.1        170.8                97.8                      138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               1.5          5.2         11.2                18.6                       45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                0.8          5.2          6.1                18.2                       31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         0.8          0.7          0.8                 0.6                        1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             380.0        482.0        665.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     33.9         32.5         31.4                36.1                       10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                80.0         75.0         70.0                56.8                       42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   10.0         12.0        14.0                 17.5                       27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                38.9         36.1         34.3                37.0                       25.6
MALE                                 51.9         49.0         47.0                47.1                       45.4
FEMALE                               26.1         23.3        21.5                 27.0                        5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.4          1.4                 1.3                        1.8
INCGfE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         61.7/          ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         72.67.
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          5. 37
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         10.97.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..           ..               534.2                      276.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..         75.0/c             255.9                      177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ' '          '         137.0/k             491.5                      400.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        125.0/c             188.1                      283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         23.0/c                 *                       22.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ,.                       30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1974; /e 1978; /f 1964; /g 1956, city of Monravia only; /h 1962; /i 1973; /j Population, higher income
calculated as residual; includes expatriates; /k 1975.
Miay 1983



- 21 -                                                                       AN'NEX II
Page 3
tEFtnnTONfl  Pr nonIut ItnICaTORi
Notes:  Although the d.ts are dranfol         ore.enrtyjde   h  0s   nhr-ta  and  elibleaisshoII aln he noted  that they. may not he  nts 1rtoo
coparable ber.nse nf the hank nf stodordized detfnriwo   an   nnpone   ydfeetcatnni   nlningomdn.Tedt   r,nntees   sflt
The reerenc  geoam  areII) te sam  nnanry grup nIthe sbjentonanty andIll a  ountr  geno  uittsneemac hiherIaIragaincom  showthe nonctygroupof ti
genopl ca9sa  a   ha   a  oso.stn   h                  Iafrg  ath nounriem    y amongth   iniatr  depande on. fthe -l aa hoilcyh of  otan   ix hno t haefa  canionl aomtp Ithe
1911 sad 1980 data.                                                                Porulonlon incS If  DfluraIne- Peso h- Papu ltio  di,ided y  n,taue  of pactin.Ing
1971 and 1981 date.                                                            Ponalanlan par toecatal aed - total. nrban. and rural - Population (innafll.Win  lhe  V
IrVcaad  url   diied  ptercmatt   atio h.eialbd
19all191,- .and Ifl   at.b at laamni ogIna p..hys -l.d                                                                 Inian    debio        idmen by cratdon If ricpahty nanodi
1970 ..d 1980 d.l..                          1960,                                      f,caeat  rtInloe.   url  opial,hoenr,ictdeheli  i
'EhithtSttlltPi. CAia-Anu   paehfoeatt   tnmaia                                             sadin-dni nannena         I nan' panmneohyimidi d by a phmiha   Ib f by  -meica
and -a-hrna  aefotlkyl in bu llohoan  ofSalli enIcee   per fallna;                         rr_di iitdrnsa   adclfclnis    o    tnshnlrro
a9d,190  and199 dono.                                                                         urbang b -ipinulsincueOIarniplgoolhaitl .i   ua
dita.                                                                                      from  hmpitule diviodaby nba nohar at bade
irbon"'Ipuhnh.n.  ..can  atltndohI  tonIa'ae Phun to tanskpafuhohaan
Pnralatan Pojactona                                                                       -  hlnoboldaonsist-of agroupof iadotdoal            int sare  InIng nartd
Popsiyinaii year li g-  faret  apiu Io  pajennaaebsda   91adiair-main etal.ifd barderu ihada   a   rsytah  nlddi
totat      1 papllata   byae  n    ,enan  thir -atln gand fetiiyhe-ale     too  atcaia  puratm.I                                                   y
ranee170,. Projn98opaaeier  franiyatm epria   ofthra                                          Peanaahsraf. carson  rsfoi-1ianalu              Pa.anroaaaenbr
capita  Moone    Yea, md fanie lif  eIpectaly atslii9          gat  7.                           dPel i.irtd haipectinly.I  iloellIngan      .da nn-pa   tettrcormt
de1e70,The paymenern for.fertilty-rote whitbhut thra.ilena...noccupied parts
asaaing  acine i  fetiliy acordng  o inatelene  an  pai  tuu7       Acem  to tlartlcldnyd   by recen  nfb. do  fita -b oalerdo.adrua
castinsh-alient at60 1ori 7ta   td fe19iycrna1      o  poedat  opoe.                            ttoa,  ran   admaNdIatgtepetney
mioc  th  birh rte i  sqal  ateduhrt,adme   h  age    98fPtiutlot'i..a
-I  i  onIenad onll y utte  firti t   ae                   ADjuIood tanll.en nanl:'Amb.I.   ,J,               y      yI,         _Ie
popolatiniOwe ta  aatisoed on ni bash  n  the yrnented caoocaer-prinary  chool-ae papuhatona; nroahiy icihdei  hoidren  gedpb-i
haInafte'plta   nteyar I--Ilt,an "le,  ri                      f doIln   tyushn jaa   u   ifrn  lantao   rsryeuatn   o
-etiiyaiet .rpta -nen                  Ithne                                                    nanarebothoiaoelddatoa...atayncelprna
tsr  taiti   y   arlatr  i  eahd..Te.ao  halsaevneyliaasoe  uri  aedelenoabraceltentlscoo  ae
Per  n. -h. oglnolu iailan  -Compute  ow aJ-- for aalnaledural flanyeeal   nldd
on  ISPly;16,17  tnt ipso dais                                                             Eoota a -ennllmo   InreT   ifannd.r    rctaalisoun
P,plta   e   turuaIrreo   Chluan (0-i  auen .a unohog-ug  115-                                  tald    ahia,  o           til   rahe   rgamelb  trt   aeed
ropaolat  1990  190lna       1t a.                                                           Pnrtl-cacterrnn I    -      10iay   n d tl,anary-ftltdeteraedI
year poolatlo  for 111-hI,l980-7heant   70-8CATIandnghna
pouan   f Got,h gate-  aroo   -  h ah -deraitrh   t  runca iof urba                      Adlieayrc     ecn)-hnraaaot   at   ora   i   rtle
purlaIon  for~la i0-AI, lIt-OG  and 1971il.                                                  0 dorcelaageIofdtato  adult.popu-m Innae   Tyar   o   rr
irittrilnh  hIt                                                                                                                    1::ally i-Awnul hrd brthsplr-hunnnd 6 rid
yerpplatiat; 1960I 1900, and  981 daaaifn-fint,h.y
poulta-;inl.  90   n l      bdot.                                                          cat55  n   ao-hnegtproa; I fnfho iaIgblacs,hare "
looms isrodunnio  tait-aeraennbro  duiaroneolllerI                                          ni.  lary  aIolltal.        j-
fnIiityatlra;o Iuol   PIdarm   triaadn  i   ai   91   o                                         r BIDtnha geeral  ublin--o tfuean  at Pupulatto   e uetat
un di.                 iiernad recalcarnin reaurnoIms   'andi   ens                                                                            einahno   ml
at biri-nactal deinet adaraupinta  at.a bo-nI tail  p          1nnad                    9ontimaalaedDIenig
pragran.   gn aeeinar  .rrhaadaautt-laeor                                                                                                                   ...rad.i
onse  o960  197-e0igag   1-4  erh               a  hIII-cn19h80clencl:c.nntrearu-                                  n yar  Yhortlwireriuuf  Oh  wns oa
Ine   ffn   routu   a   aIt   Ih-JIhh-Idoo   o  capIta                                      pob'luarlun-Oontnd cDI nuoala  to hr-utta  Iaarll      ro. th'iaI incalde
Pam1d an notional197acagIprndunerdprina weights  19th-tO, 1970,-atd 198
tots.                                 h9.701ilOt plant'    `M1lae-Ilddb   aielI                                                                             ah
energe~uin1attat oa t-w  supp0 homanahbe  nnutr2e  n  iape                                 ona  n   urpaolhtrYlln                             -aehe T,. ttudens,et. a canIedInD
Cactiitywo  health              -l onieigeornenlaneaaebapagtafaitanpret8ofttlthrfr;19,1bSnd1981 data.
netespl  a  fndpeoda,  easupl  oflad  t  efne  so dbnn. Idrtiloolntna    rrat     otl  ue   ndfel-anulatn
oil,nncalot lgrata   tta  potinpedopndlraeta                            alood                   peIalae  otnt,.lno..a.p.u.ttaftlg-rspntrry
pua   rcbn   ialhIIgasso h   ewio-pAea,,ea1t,hOt  n   91iuo    hs  athtdo  10'   ancbaioac
Pe  aplilta roatei  -uroly frol- nt  n  paa          rcIn nup-pautfon                            nba ta-a  labur iarc.                                                 .-
detdIa  aiaasd  555i gre-ta pare Iday;  i  199-b, 1970, and S1977                                           f            
Iaa                                                                                       itOf-EITIiTi
at-r'I      ht.171ad18  data                                                                      minldiha  b.int hpetd Lnlthjcnnaiderabls un inn.                       -e..
psraM    g   e   tuno   itui    96,17   n   91daaInaurpnrt"caeinli  than  -anoot                                                                     IIoe  hams, Tb   ... a  in
'MDMl NTo of  sapl  -tnn,  rit,ad  urllwil  etaoiaaconomfafnrata
saner- dspy(nldstetdsraanto    tsasrdhtttnrdchtr  Porer..Incom  henr (~I arfia  - urw                                                                                  In  oa 
u"Itaatae  natr  no  usthn12n  prncs  hrt7n,uoo    andcarl rludnarufrt-InathonIar-idatrrneprnn
les.Irua    raeadtabenato.ipyttnettsfn                                                            rrrl   rnatnyphtolraadoa lltio-ar e"aa- cn
the day In fenohing the Isaisy' -5cl dnaladnIIord                                                             .... Itends.--
rrlta adnt  ole(natah,aba...           rr..   oardbecr
s.ay tIidetelly"to   addipel    Ii   r  ibanteamni,t                                                                                 Icanol   n   uilI1aDnio
reinSt  and sathar  nniota" iInsfl9ay-S9b3



- 22 -                         ANNEX I
Page4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982 1/                        (% 1971 CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Million        %           1978-81     1982
GNP at Market Prices             930.7        100.0          -0.9        -4.3
(Jross Domestic Investment       233.5         25.1          -6.6        12.9
Gross National Saving             93.5          10.0         18.4        -0.6
Current Account Balance         -44.6          -4.8            -           -
Exports of Goods, NFS           487.4          52.4          -2.7        -9.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           513.5          55.2         -10.3        -7.9
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added      Employment 2/   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.   %       000   %           US$        %
Agriculture                   345.0   36.3    515.0  79.3        669.9       45.8
Industry                      197.8   20.8      40.0   6.2      4945.0      338.1
'ervices                      407.1   42.9      94.5  14.5      4307.9      294.6
Total/Average        949.9  100.0    649.5 100.0       1462.5      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                         Central  Government
1981/2 4/                  1982/83 4/
US$ Million  % of GDP      US$ Million  % of GDP
Current Receipts                237.9        21.2           223.3        19.6
Current Expenditure             289.0        25.8           252.6        22.2
Current Surplus                 -51.1        -4.6           -29.3        -2.6
rCapital Expenditures            96.4         8.6            90.9         8.0
External Assistance (Net)        41.4         3.7            33.0         2.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES        1978         1979            1980         1981     1982
_ Millions Liberian $ Outstanding, End of Period7_
Bank Credit to Public Sector    61.7         92.4           152.1        192.1    255.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector  143.8        184.6           132.9        130.9    123.7
(Annual Percentage Changes)
Consumer Price Index 3/            7.4       11.5            13.8          8.2      6.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector   315.8         49.1            64.6         26.3     32.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector   27.6         28.4           -28.0         -1.5     -5.5
NOTE:    All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/       Preliminary estimates
2/       Employment data subject to further verification
37r     September - November 1964 = 100
4/       From data collected by IMF in August 1983
December 21, 1983



- 23 -                           ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-82)
1980    1981    1982 1/
(Millions US$)                         US$ Million      %
Exports of Goods, NFS        613.5   540.7   487.4       Iron Ore          315.6       58.9
Imports of Goods, NFS        614.1   560.9   513.5       Rubber             80.8       15.1
Resource Gap (deficit =-)    -0.4   -20.2   -26.1        Diamonds           27.7        5.2
Logs or Lumber    47.3        8.8
Interest Payments (Net)      -23.9   -20.2   -28.0       Coffee             25.1        4.7
Workers' Remittances         -32.0   -33.0   -35.0       Palm Products       4.2        0.8
Other Factor Payments (Net) -83.7   -72.0   -64.0        Cocoa              11.0        2.1
Net Transfers                 35.7    68.1   108.5       All other
Commodities        24.0       4.5
Balance on Current Account -104.5   -77.3   -44.6           Total          535.7     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment 2/ -10.7  -42.9   -45.0
Net MLT Borrowing 3/           62.5   62.2    40.7
Disbursements         78.1   71.6    59.4
Amortization          15.6    9.4    18.7  EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1982 3/
Subtotal              51.8   19.3    -4.3  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed 641.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (+)      -61.8  -49.3   -57.5  Total Outstanding & Disbursed 641.2
Gross Reserves (end year)   -101.2 -150.5  -208.0  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982 4/
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed 33.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed 33.2
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports              152.1  129.6   115.1
Debt Service as % of
Government Revenue               14.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE:   US$1 = Liberian Dollar 1
IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 31, 1982) (MILLION US$):
IBRD      IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                  90.7       36.4
Undisbursed                              46.0       49.4
Outstanding Including Undisbursed       136.7      85.8
1/       Preliminary
2T      Data provided by Liberian authorities
V        IBRD Debtor Reporting System
4/       Debt Service as percent of Exports of Goods and NFS
not available
not applicable
December 21, 1983



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1983)
Loan or                                                              Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                                less cancellation
Number   Year       Borrower               Purpose              Bank   IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and five credits fully disbursed                 87.22   24.96          -
1323     1976  Liberian Bank for        Third Development
Dev. & Investment       Finance                7.0       -          1.86
1417     1977  Rep. of Liberia          Education III            6.3       -          0.08 3/
700     1977  Rep. of Liberia          Bong Agriculture           -      7.0         0.12 3/
786     1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development         -      6.0         2.76
839     1978  Rep. of Liberia          Forestry                   -      6.0         3.07
Development
1544     1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development       7.0       -          7.00
1664     1979  Rep. of Liberia          Feeder Roads            10.7       -          7.11
1765     1979  Rep. of Liberia          Decoris Oil Palm        12.0       -         10.26
1907     1980  Rep. of Liberia          Petroleum Explo.         5.0       -          0.24
1076     1981  Rep. of Liberia          Small & Med. Scale
Enterprises             -      4.0 2/      3.07 4/
2080/81  1982  Rep. of Liberia/NIOC   Mining                    20.0       -         11.73
1223     1982  Rep. of Liberia          Urban Development         -      10.0 2/     7.96 4/
1242     1982  Rep. of Liberia          Lofa II                   -      15.5 2/    11.56 4/
1306     1983  Rep. of Liberia          Education IV              -      13.5 2!    10.27 4/
1311     1983  Rep. of Liberia          Highway IV
(Supplement)            -      1.8 2/      0.38 3/4/
Total                                          155.22   88.76        77.47
of which has been repaid                      23.08    0.14
Total now outstanding                          132.14   88.62
Amounts sold                       0.41
of which has been repaid        0.41           0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                      132.14   88.62
Total undisbursed                               38.28   39.19        77.47
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Calculated at rate of exchange in effect at approval date.
3/ Closing date is December 31, 1983.
4/ Calculated at rate of exchange at November 30, 1983 of SDR 1 = $1.05058.
Note:    The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 25 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1983)
Fiscal
Year         Obligator         Type of Business    Loan      Equity      Total
1966     Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance Company
Investment                                            0.250      0.250
1977     Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance Company
Investment                                            0.306      0.306
0.556      0.556
Less Sold                                             0.001      0.001
Now held by IFC                                       0.555      0.555



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
LIBERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            9 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            Ministry of Public Works
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank, and date of
first Bank mission to con-
sider the project:                        June 1981/November 1981
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                  September 20, 1982
(e) Date of Completion of
Negotiations:                             December 9, 1988
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:            July 1984
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Action
IDA to advance SDR 575,000 from the Credit to a special account to be
used for working capital for project execution (para. 49).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to install weighbridges and provide sufficient funds for
their operation and maintenance (para. 29);
(b) Government to (i) install an improved accounting system for road
maintenance and introduce a new functional recurrent budget, and (ii)
allocate specified minimum amounts to road maintenance (para. 32);
(c) All existing maintenance equipment to be used exclusively for the
project and maintained adequately thereafter (para. 41);
(d) Upgrading works to be limited to no more than 10 percent of total
regravelling volume and, starting December 1, 1984, progress of work
done by MPW regravelling brigades to be reviewed every six months
(para. 43); and



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Government to submit to IDA annually for review its road maintenance
budget and program and ensure that no sector activities would be
undertaken which would impair the efficient carrying out of the
project (para. 43).






IBRD 16873
'  1 019                                                                  L I BER I A              MARCHl 1983
C,                 ~~TRANSPORTATION  NETWORK AND
'r    '  Bakerno,                         ~ROAD   MAINTENANCE   FACILITIES
1                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Road Maitenance. Training Center
A    Regionl nlcadgortor
L   cE                   I                                                                                                       Dissnist  Workshops      9
-  Pored Highways
C O)UN    V-All Weather Roads
Obongo0                                                     Dry Weather Roads~
\  (I   Coontr Cop too
P0~~~~ehoe ~ ~ ~  ~    /                                                                                                            No Ce.p/ I o st.sgI    r    -',  I,
OBEt  R          T                                                                    htY
RO                                                                                bIMNOt  CyoN2 IAS  I$aP
GIr                                                                                                                        C C%J  ATSAtT
MO                                         A                  S
resaanpasoeaaprnyarepa'                 K-p/ N.aTow
ere    AoO O Osagat.l aYko6
rsnoossor.ehanr.wtree        V    t                                                                   )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B I,
snzzirrri-nnn                                               oliK" oan
Orowaran re.o.sansnarare                                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-W ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -- 0/ )C
mOat nsa aOiOOaflk joy ma~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Miae  AUeRITa  NIA                C.,/
envrSEnNrrEGnAwar                                               Roa Ae L  I 
-IE.EC       IVORY 
A                                                                                                
TH~~~~~~~~ '  L I             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         -Ojoarpee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fk
GUINE:-BIXSSAJP<.  UPPER                   4                                  joan me  /                          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



