OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1449 LBR
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                3            ,1984


﻿CREDIT WJMBER 1449 LZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    A    4 fA R                       , 1984,
between REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Associatio and
the United States Agency for International Development (herein-
after called USAID) to assist in financing the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B) USAID has agreed to assist in the financing of Parts C
(iii) and E (2) of the Project by making available a grant (here-
inafter called the USAID Grant) in the principal amount equiva-
lent to three million one hundred thousand dollars ($3,100,000);
and
(C)  the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower on the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Bor-
rower.
(b) "Project Account" means the Project Account referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
(c)   "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agree-
ment.
(d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the pro.ect prepar-
ation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated April 19, 1983 and May 9, 1983
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
,rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or rcferred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 10,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Ac-
count and pay to itself the amount required to repay the princi-
pal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and out-
standing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the currency of the Borrower a
special account in the National Bank of Liberia on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the


﻿-3-
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date at the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1994, and ending Feb-
ruary 15, 2034, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MPW with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with ap-
propriate engineering, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  To ensure the availability of funds for the Project,
the Borrower: (i) shall open at a commercial bank and thereafter
maintain a bank account (hereinafter called the Project Account)
to be used exclusively for payments for goods and services re-
quired for the Project; (ii) shall pay into the Project Account
(A) an initial deposit of $400,000 equivalent; and (B) by Decem-
ber 1, 1984 an additional amount of $200,000 equivalent; and
(iii) shall replenish such Account on a quarterly basis or more
frequently where necessary to ensure that such Account shows by
the end of the first month of each quarter a positive balance of
at least $400,000 equivalent in 1984 and $600,000 equivalent
thereafter.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants, experts
and specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, such consultants, experts, and specialists to be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to   the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Worle Bi *k as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and       services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and (except as the


﻿-5-
Association shall otherwise agree) all operable and repairable
units of MPW's Operations Bureau's road maintenance equipment
fleet, to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii),shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower: (i) shall introduce by July 1,
1984 and thereafter maintain and operate in its Ministry of Pub-
lic Works, an improved accounting system for road maintenance
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) shall as from fiscal year
1985 introduce in its recurrent budget a road maintenance budget
prepared on functional lines and in form and content satisfactory
to the Association; and (iii) shall include in its maintenance
budget the following minimum amounts for materials, fuel, spare
parts and other supplies for road maintenance during the follow-
ing fiscal years: (A) 1984, (2nd half), $1,400,000; (B) 1985,
$2,800,000; (C) 1986, $3,100,000; and (D) 1987 (1st half),
$1,600,000.
Section 3.07. The Borrower: (i) shall in the execution of
Part C of the Project limit upgrading earthworks to no more than
10% of the total regravelling volume to be carried out; and (ii)
shall, starting from December 1, 1984, review with the Associa-
tion at least once every six months physical progress of work
carried out by the regravelling brigades of MPW's work force
under the Project; provided that the Borrower shall, in the event
that the assessed output of work be less than that required under
the work program referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement,
take, in agreement with the Association, all necessary measures
(including possible increases in the amount of work to be carried
out by contractors) to achieve the output required.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall
be necessary to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of ve-
hicles using its roads shall be consistent with the structural
and geometric design standards of such roads.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall no later than December 1,
1985: (1) fully install the remaining three weighbridges procured
by MPW in 1976; and (ii) provide in its budgets funds sufficient
to cover all operating and maintenance costs of the weighbridges.


﻿-7-
Section 3.10. The Borrower: (i) shall cause all roads
included in the Project and all MPW's road maintenance equipment
to be maintained adequately; (ii) shall cause all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof to be made promptly, all in
accordance with appropriate techniques and economic practices;
and (iii) shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, equipment, services and other resources required for this
purpose,
Section 3.11. During execution of the Project and for five
years thereafter, the Borrower shall no later than May 15 of each
year furnish to the Association for its review and comments, the
budget and work program which it proposes for routine and
periodic road maintenance during the fiscal year next following.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall not undertake any activi-
ties likely to affect adversely the administrative and manpower
resources available for the Project or likely to impair the
efficient carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the Project Account
and  the  Special Account for    each  fiscal year audited, in


﻿- 8.-
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether (A) the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided, and
(B) whether the unit rates adopted with respect to maintenance
operations under the Project for purposes of withdrawal of
proceeds of the Credit on the basis of statements of expenditure
are adequate; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the USAID Grant for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
USAID Grant;
(b) paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under the terms of the USAID Grant, and (ii) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-


﻿-9-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur,
subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the opening of the Project Account and the Special Ac-
count;
(b) the payment into the Project Account of an initial de-
posit of $400,000 equivalent; and
(c) the making by the Borrower of arrangements satisfactory
to the Association for obtaining the USAID Grant.
Section 6.02. The date Z    -   1 Lt O, (ff1L     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia
Liberia


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                               4221
Monrovia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By/S/ ?*            0le,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                 2,090,000      100% of foreign
tools, spare                             expenditures and
parts for                                90% of local ex-
equipment over-                          penditures
haul and
equipment over-
haul by con-
tractors
under Part D
of the Project
(2) Periodic main-             3,590,000      80% of cost of
tenance under                            materials used in
Part C (i) and                           work carried out by
C (ii) of the                            MPW's work force
Project (ex-
cluding royalties
for laterite)
(3) Consultant and             2,060,000      100% of foreign
audit services                           expenditures
under Parts E
(1) and F of
the Project
(4) Materials for              1,560,000
routine main-
tenance under
Part B of the
Project
(a) expenditures made                    30%
before 1985


﻿-12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) expenditures made                    24%
in 1985
(c) expenditures made                     15%
after 1985
(5) Initial deposit              570,000      Amount due under
in Special                                Section 2.02 (c)
Account                                   of this Agreement
(6) Refunding of                 340,000      Amount due under
Project Prepara-                          Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                             of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                  690,000
TOTAL               10,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or


﻿- 13 -
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of )he Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen MPW's abil-
ity to carry out efficiently the Borrower's road maintenance pro-
gram and to ensure the adequate maintenance of the Borrower's
public roads system. The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Strengthening of MPW's Management
Development and carrying out of a medium-term program to
improve MPW's managerial and financial accountability including:
(i) coordination of the activities of MPW's bureaus and improve-
ment of its management information systems; (ii) improvement of
MPW's capability to carry out assignments within Ithe established
budgets; and (iii) installation of a modern cost accounting
system for work monitoring and planning.
B.   Road Maintenance:
(1)  The carrying out of a three-year road maintenance pro-
gram, including the routine maintenance by MPW's work force of
about 2,450 miles of the all-weather-road network and about 2,275
miles of the dry-weather-road network.
(2)   Establishment and organization of specialized light
mechanized units and labor gangs to carry out maintenance tasks
set out in MPW's annual routine maintenance programs.
C.   Periodic Maintenance of Gravel Roads
Rehabilitation of about 450 miles of gravel roads (listed in
the Annex hereto, said Annex being-subject to modification by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association) involving:
(i) the deployment by MPW's Operations Bureau of three brigades
(one in each region) and, if necessary, contractors to regravel
about 350 miles of gravel roads; (ii) establishment of a
specialized drainage unit to carry out drainage improvements of
roads to be rehabilitated; and (iii) regraveling under contract
of about 100 miles of roads.
D.   Workshops and Equipment:
(1)   Additions to the road maintenance equipment fleet of
MPW including: (i) the provision for MPW's Operations Bureau of


﻿- 15 -
additional water tanks, lube trucks and other items needed to
provide balanced equipment for the Bureau's maintenance brigades;
and (ii) repair and overhaul of MPW's Operations Bureau's equip-
ment.
(2)  Basic rehabilitation of MPW's workshop facilities in-
cluding: (i) provision to MPW's workshops of reliable water,
electricity, compressed air and fuel-dispensing services, work-
shop equipment, hand tools and radio equipment; and (ii) re-
placement of ancillary equipment and hand tools.
E.   Technical Assistance:
(1)  Provision of consultant services to assist MPW in: (i)
the execution of the Project; and (ii) the carrying out of a road
maintenance study to prepare a future road maintenance program.
(2) A program of overseas training and fellowships.
F.   Audit Services
The carrying out of annual external audits of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 16 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Gravel Roads
(Part C of the Project)
Road Sections                                       Length
(miles)
1.   Bomi hills - Lofa Bridge                        13.7
2.   Lof a Bridge - Mano River                       35.0
3.   Gba - Bo                                        42.7
4.   Madina - Robertsport                             27.5
5.   Bambli - Greenville                             71.0
6.   Harper - Karlokeh                               32.0
7.   Zwedru - Cestos River                           54.0
8.   St. Paul River - Mendikoma                      113.0
9.   Ganta - Cestos River                             61.1
TOTAL                                 450.0


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.    Equipment, spare parts, tools and materials required for
Parts B, C and D of the Project shall be bulked, where possible,
to permit the use of international competitive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Li-
beria may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids   offering  goods  manufactured  in
Liberia if the bidder shall have established to
the   satisfaction  of   the   Borrower   and  the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Liberia equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 19 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a) Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into lots
costing more than $60,000 equivalent, and contracts for fuel may
be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association; provided, however, that the aggregate
cost of items (other than fuel) so procured shall not exceed
$1,500,000 equivalent.
(b)  Minor items not exceeding $10,000 equivalent in value
per purchase that are urgently needed may be procured by local
shopping, provided that the aggregate cost of goods and items
(other than fuel) so procured shall not exceed $500,000 equiva-
lent.
2.   Equipment repair and overhaul by authorized dealers shall be
carried out, and proprietary spare parts available exclusively
from the original manufacturer of equipment required under the
Project shall be purchased, under directly negotiated contracts
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Contracts for periodic maintenance under Part C of the
Project shall be awarded on the basis of local competitive bid-
ding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association:
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qual-
ification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 20 -
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $60,000 or more and all contracts for works
(irrespective of cost):
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)  After bids Iave been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and c3nditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed


﻿- 21 -
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that thk award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Routine maintenance and rehabilitation of about 350 miles of
gravel roads included in Part C (i) of the Project shall be
carried out by MPW's workforce.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in
accordance with the proviLions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)   the term "initial deposit" means an amount in the
currency of the Borrower equivalent to the amount allocated to
Category (5) and to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to the first sentence
of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.      Payments out   of  the  Special Account shall    be   made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments   made  out   of  the   Special  Account   for   eligible
expenditures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 23 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was, made for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association: (a) when the Association shall have
determined at any time that all further withdrawals can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, or (b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association,
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less the amount
of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association
and of any special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and shall,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made only
after and to the extent the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a)  any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 24 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     0      day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


