RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use                FILE    COPY
Report No. 99a-ME
APPRAISAL OF
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MEXICO
May 24, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRECY AND EQUIVALE1NT
Carren¢y Uait                 =              Peso (Nex$)
Us$1.00                       =              Mex$12.50
Mex$1.00                      -               us$0.08
Mex$l million                 s               US$80,000
ABBREVIATICIS AND MEASURES
1 mm - millimeter                             0.04 inches
1 cm - centimeter               -             0.39 inches
1 m  - meter                  =               3.28 feet
1 km - kilometer              -              0.62 miles
11  - liter                   =              0.26 uS gallons
1 m3 = cubic meters           =               264 US gallons
1 m3/sec - cubic meters       -               31.5 million cubic meters
per second                        per year or 22.8 million
US gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRCNYMNS
Comision - Comisi6n de Aguas del Valle de M1xico
State    = State of Mexico
Federal District = Department of the Federal District of Mexico
SRH      = Secretariat  of Hydraulic Resources
ATEC     - Ehgineering Consultants to SRH and the Comisi6n
FISCaL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



J-
MEXIOO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.  INTRODUCTION .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .       1
2.    THE  SECTO     .  .....................  .  .  .               3
3.  METROPOLITAN AREA WATER AND SEWERAGE STSTEMS . . . . . . . .     5
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . a . . . . . . .     5
Water Pesources  .. .. . . . . .. .. ..   .. . .    . . . . . .. .  5
Sewage and Storm Water Drainage  . . . . . . . . . . . .. .      6
4.  THE PROJECT  .  . . . . o.  o *          .. . . . . .    .. . .. . .. .a  8
Project Planning . . B      . .      . . * . . .  . . . . .      8
Project Description  .................a..                        8
Cost Estimates . . . . . .   o . . . . * * *     . * * *    * o  9
Amount of Proposed Loan             .          0&*0.00          11
Procurement              *              a * a . * * * *   o    11
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Construction Schedule               a ................          12
Project Executi m   . E .         . .    * .     .    a . .    a .   12
studies  &e*   a&a   oa                              a            12
Environmental Aspects  ..............a....                      12
5. JUSTIFIATION  ........ . .. o . . . . . . . ....................... 14
Demand Forecasts and Investment Objectives . . . . . . . . .    14
Selection of Proposed Project  ..                 .   ..        15
Project Evaluation.....................   15
Project Risks  * * **. ***-         *          * * * * *         16
6.  THE COMISION . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .    17
The appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. J. Kalbermatten, R. Costa,
A. Bruestle, and L. Jeurling visited Mexico in September 1972.



-ii. -
Page No.
7.  FUNCS                                       ......-................... 18
Geneal   .la.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .                    18
FiacngPa  .....                 i    ....0 Pl.*                             18
Future Finances  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     20
operating Ratio   . .  . . . .  . . . * . . . .     . . .                    21
Financiatoatuor..t . ...m....                                                21
PrivatlyPrduedwaer.c ..     .*                             er                22
WaterRetailers  ...a....  ...........                                        22
8.AGPE    ThR3aHDANDREMMMT10Nt . . . . . . . . .                                  24



V
A N N E X E S
TITLE                                           NO.
Existing Systems and Proposed Project                                1
The Texcoco Subproject                                               2
Project Sequencing                                                   3
Cumulative Quarterly Investment and IBRD Loan
Disbursement Schedule                                                4
Return on Project Investment                                         5
Balance Sheet                                                        6
Income Statement                                                     7
Cash Flow                                                            8
Financial Assumptions                                                9
Debt Calculations                                                   10
Federal District Finances                                           11
State of Mexico Finances                                            12
Economic Water Pricing, Tariffs and Long-Range Planning             13






LISTS OF CHARTS
Chart No.
Organization Chart, Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources                  7164
Organization Chart, Federal Government                                  7163
Organization Chart, Federal District of Mexico                          7214
Organization Chart, State of Mexico                                     7213
Activity Schedule                                                       7177
Population, Realized and Forecast                                       7166
Forecasted Water Production and Demand                                  7167
Flow of Funds                                                           7215
Organization Chart - Comisi6n de Aguas del Valle de Mexico              7165
Projected Economic Cost and Revenues for Bulk Water                     7274
Projected Economic Cost and Revenues of Water Supply in                 7275
Federal District






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
W   i.    This report covers the appraisal of a US$174 million equivalent
(excluding incremental working capital requirements of US$20 million)
water supply expansion project for the Mexico City metropolitan area,
a region containing 9 million people and serving as the focal point for
the natimnts cultural, political, and econoic life. A Bank loan of
US$90 million is proposed, covering the full estimated foreign exchange
and about 10% of the local costs of the Project (US$76 million), and
the interest during construction on the Bank loan (US$14 million).
ii.       Spurred by a population growth rate of 6%, which is almost
double that of the country as a whole, the metropolitan area's water
requirements now exceed the capacity of the present source and trans-
mission systems; water pressures are frequently lower than optimum and
in some areas service is interrupted. The quality of service will
deteriorate further unless water source and distribution systems are
expanded. The Project consists of a series of subprojects, to be con-
structed over a four-year construction period, to meet the area's water
source and transmission system needs; distribution systems would be
built outside the scope of the Project.
iii.      The Project consists of five groundwater subprojects, one sur-
face water subproject and includes a mzlti-purpose resource development
and environmental improvement scheme. Construction, engineering and ad-
ministrative work is estimated to cost US$155 million, and interest during
construction US$19 million. The Bank loan would cover 50% of the Project's
cost plus interest during construction on the Bank loan, the balance will
come&from local loans (20%), national government grants (15%) and internal
cash generation (15%).
iv.       All of the materials and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the loan would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines. All the civil works contracts and most of the equipment supply
contracts are expected to be won by Mexican firms.
v.        The Project would be executed by the Comision de Aguas del Valle
de Mexico (the Comision), a newly organized regional bulk water supplier
under the jurisdiction of the Federal Government's Minister of Hydraulic
Resources. Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) would be the borrower.
vi.       The Project is the least cost alternative, at discount rates
up to 15%, for providing Mexico City with projected bulk water require-
ments through 1977.
vii.      Provided the conditions listed in Chapter 8 are met, the Project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$90 million equivalent for a term of 24
years, including a 4-year grace period.






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPIY PROJECT
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a water supply expansion program for the metropolitan area of Mexico City,
which is the capital and premier city of Mexico. This would be the first
Bank loan to the water supply sector in Mexico. In 1967 a drainage project
for the Federal District was appraised; however the Mexican Government decided
to finance the Project without Bank participation anJ withdrew its request
shortly before the loan was to be presented to the Board.
1.02      The Comisi6n de Aguas del Valle de M8xico (the Comisi6n), an agency
of the Secretarfa de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH), would be responsible for the
execution of the Project. Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) would be the borrower.
The loan would be for US$90.0 million which represents 52% of the Project cost
of US$174 million.
1.03      The Project would include the construction of five groundwater sub-
projects, a surface water subproject, and a multi-purpose resource development
and environmental improvement scheme. The aggregate water yield would be
15.5 m3/sec, sufficient to meet the metropolitan areats water needs through
1977. The construction period of the Project would be about four years.
1.04      The Project first came to the Bank's attention in August 1971, when
at the Mexican Government's invitation, a pre-appraisal mission visited the
metropolitan area to examine the possibility of Bank financing for the
Texcoco multi-purpose scheme (see paragraph 4.02). It was apparent that the
Texcoco scheme alone, with a yield of 2.0 m3/sec, would not significantly
improve the areats rather urgent water supply situation; other, far larger
measures were necessary if short- and medium-term needs for water were to be
met. Moreover, responsibility for planning and providing water supply, orig-
inally fragmented among various national, state and municipal agencies, was
soon to be vested in a single agency responsible for the development of all
new water sources in the Valley of Mexico. Lastly, pricing practices encour-
aged waste and provided insufficient revenues for sound utility management.
Ey financing the Project, the Bank saw opportunities not merely for helping
to finance urgently needed physical systems, but to encourage systematic
regional water planning, to foster the creation and development of a new
bulk water organization, and to encourage change in uneconomic pricing prac-
tices.
1.o5      The Government created the Comisi6n, the new bulk water agency, in
1972, to plan, build and operate the subprojects, and to sell the bulk water
to the Federal District, the State of Mexico and municipalities for subsequent
distribution and retail sale.  Another important step taken during project
preparation was the increase in retail water tariffs in Mexico City in
January 1973, the first in twenty years. This increase doubles the revenues
from the sale of water and will permit the Federal District to finance needed
distribution system expansion. Retail water tariffs in the State of Mexico
had been raised in May 1972.



-2-
1.06      This report appraises the bulk water supply program of the
Comision to meet the pressing water requirements of the growing metro-
politan region of Mexico City through the year 1977. The investment in
the bulk water program would be supplemented with investments in (a) the
distribution system (about US$88 million) and (b) the essential drainage
and sewerage works (about US$320 million) undertaken in the Federal District
and adjoining municipalities in the State of Mexico, but these do not
constitute part of the Project. The Project appraisal was based on material
furnished by the Federal, State and District Governments; the reports of
several consultants on the subprojects; and the report of ATEC, a Mexican
consulting firm employed by the Comision to assemble the technical, economic
and financial aspects of the subprojects into a single program. These
materials were found to be far from perfect -- occasionally incomplete and
lacking in internal consistency -- but the Bank is satisfied (a) that the
program suggested is the least cost alternative for meeting the forecast
increase in demand (paragraph 5.04), and (b) that the proposed studies
(paragraph 4.12 and Annex 1) would help to ensure that the Project is
efficiently implemented. There are, nevertheless, risks associated with
the Project: that the physical works will be inadequately operated and
that the Comision's management will be unsatisfactory. Close supervision
will be essential to assist the Comision in the execution and management
of the Project.
1.07      The appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. J. Kalbermatten,
R. Costa, A. Bruestle and L. Jeurling, visited Mexico in September 1972.



-3-
2. THE SECTOR
2.01      Rainfall in Mexico ranges from 100 nm per year in dry areas to
5,000 imm in the tropical lowlands, but water is a scarce resource largely
for geographic and demographic reasons: 70% of the country's population
and 80% of its industry are located in areas which command only 15% of the
available water. This maldistribution will create conflicts between users
and drive the cost of urban water upward as transmission lines are extended
to remote sources of supply. In recognition of t)e problem, the Government
is embarking on a national water planning studyA/ to quantify water avail-
ability and needs and to assure development of the sector in line with
national economic and social goals. Planning for subsequent bulk water
schemes of the Cdmision would be closely coordinated with the national study.
2.02      The urban water supply problem is concomitant to the problem of
rapid urban population and economic growth and the resultant stresses upon
supporting resources. The quality of life in the Mexico City metropolitan
area has suffered under this growth, and although the Federal District and
the State have regional planning organizations there is no adopted master
plan. Water supply development is not normally a strong determinant in
urban growth patterns, and indeed this Project would not attempt to shape
such patterns. The Bank has called upon the government to conduct a
metropolitan area land use and development study leading to the establishment
of a regional mawter plan for urban development.
2.03      The Government's method of allocating water and subsidizing its
price encourages uneconomic and wasteful practices. Although the 1972
water law gives domestic consumers the first right to water, certain
agriculturalists have de facto prior rights and obtain water at prices
well below cost; and in the Federal District the price paid by domestic
and industrial consumers before the January 1, 1973 increase covered only
30 to 70% of the cost of providing the service. Notwithstanding the
increased tariffs still do not cover the cost of the service. In the face
of the steeply rising marginal cost for water, the price mechanism could
advantageously be employed to encourage economic use of water (reduction
of waste, elimination of leaks, reuse) and to generate funds for subsequent
water development projects. In order to promote the adoption of an economic
pricing policy in the sector, conditions of the loan require, among other
things, that the Comision charge an economic pricel/ for its bulk water sales.
2.04      The Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH), a ministerial level
government agency with nationwide responsibility for water resources and
pollution control, is the most important of the many agencies concerned with
the sector (see charts 7163 and 7164). About 80% of SRH's investments are
in multipurpose river basin schemes and irrigation, with the balance in
1/ The study is financed in part by the UNDP, and the IBRD is the executing
agency.
2/ To cover operating and depreciation costs, and to achieve a net internal
cash generation of 24% in 1974 and 35% thereafter.



-4-
municipal water supplies and sewerage. The latter are executed through
SRH's Department of Potable Water Supply and Sewerage, which shares
responsibility with states and municipalities for building and operating
water systems in communities of more than 2,,500 persons.  The Comision
is an autonomous agency within SRH, reporting directly to the Minister.
2.05      Mexico has increased the percentage of its population served
with piped water from 13% to 60%, and with sewerage service from 16% to
41%, in the period 1950-1970. It has met Alliance for Progress goals
(potable water supply and sewerage services for 70% of the urban, 50%
of the rural population by 1970.) for urban water supply but not for
urban sewerage or rural water supply. nhe sector received external
support from UNICEF during the mid-1960s, as part of a rural health
services program in 14 states, and from the Inter-American Development
Bank, which loaned US$32 million for water and sewerage systems in five
cities during the period 1962-1969.
2.06      The proposed loan would be the Bank's first operation in the
sector. A second stage of bulk water investments is required immediately
after completion of the Project and is estimated to cost some US$500
million equivalent through 1981. Assuming 30% intermal cash generation
and 30% national loans, a second foreign loan of about US$200 milliom
would be required in 1976. The works of the second stage would be
composed of one groundwater (Apan II) and three surface water schemes
(Tepeji, Tlautla-Rosas, and Miguel Aleman I), with a combined yield of
about 12 m3/sec. The tentative long-range plan then envisions further
use of waters of the Rio Balsas Valley; two additional stages of the
Miguel Aleman scheme in that Valley would be constructed to yield a total
of about 21 m3/sec.  The oost of waters from this schee is relatively
high because even the close-in first stage taps a water source 1000 meters
below and 80 km away from the metropolitan area.



3. METROPOIITAN AREA WATER AND S3WERAGE SYSTEMS
Background
3.01      The Mexico City metropolitan area (see map 10226) is in the Valley
of Mexico, a 10,000 square kilometer basin of volcanic origin, located about
2,000 meters above sea level at the southern end of the Central Mexican
plateau. The Valley includes portions of the states of Mexico, Hidalgo,
Tlaxcala and Puebla, as well as the entire Federal District. The metro-
politan area dominates the economic, political and cultural life of the
nation, and accounts for about 20% of the national population. The industrial
aensus of 1965 reports that the area accounted for 40% of the nation's
employment, 44% of its invested capital, 47% of its production and 58% of
its salaries and wages.  The metropolitan area's population growth of
almost 6% per annum is 60% greater than the national average, and although
a gradual decline in the rate of growth is expected, the population by
1980 is forecasted to reach 15 million. To date little control has been
exercised over urban growth and many areas have rapidly developed without
plan and without suitable infrastructure.
3.02      The metropolitan area is governed by two major political bodies,
the Federal District and the State of Mexico. The Federal District occupies
1l4% of the Valley's land area in the southwestern part of the Basin. It
is bounded by the State of Morelos on the south and on the other three sides
by the State of Mexico. The District is the seat of the Federal Government
and is administered by a ministerial level department responsible to the
President; the organizational stracture of the department is shown on
Chart 7214. About 7.5 million people reside in the District.
3.03      Of the 29 states in the Federation, the State of Mexico ranks
23rd in land area (21,000 km2) but second in population (3.8 million).  Like
other state governmeats, it has its own Constitution, Governor, and Chamber
of Deputies (see organization Chart, Chart 7213). The state is a spill-over
area for industry and population attracted to Mexico City, and the bulk of
metropolitan area growth takes place in state areas adjacent to the Federal
District. Cne such place, the city of Netzahualcoyotl, has grown more than
tenfold in the past decade to about 650,000 inhabitants, and is now the
fourth largest city in Mexico. Public services in these rapidly expanding
areas are grossly deficient, and the state and its municipalities will have
to make large investments to correct present, and prevent future, deficiencies.
Water Resources
3.04      The Valley's topographical situation--a basin rimmed by mountains
put perched above the surrounding land--limits the available water
and   complicates  access      to neighboring water resources.  While some
waters on the distant sides of the mountains have been tapped and tunneled
to the Valley, about 70X of the Valley's present water supplies originate
from rains falling directly upon it, and are exploited as sub-surface water
via wells.



-6-
3.05      The present public and private water source for systems for the
metropolitan area yield about 40 m3/sec. All are groundwater sources; and
all but one, the Lerma system with a yield of about 12.4 m3/sec, are located
in the Valley of Mexico. 74% of production is by and for the Federal
District, 11% by public entities in the State of Mexico and 15% by private
parties.  The Federal District has 10,000 kI  of transmission and distribution
pipe of up to 1.20 m diameter, 28 storage tanks with a combi-ned capacity of
1.1 millicn n3 and 6 booster pumping stations with a cambined capacity of
29 m3/sec. The distribution systems in the State of Mexico--built and
operated by SRH, State agencies, municipalities and local governments--are
less extensive and in some cases inadequate. In the metropolitan area, 80%
of the populatimn is reportedly served with water piped to their homes, 20%
are served by water from public hydrants and private carriers.
3.o6      investment programs for the distribution systems are given in
Annex 1, Tables 6 and 7. Expansion of the distribution systems in both the
Federal District and the State is essential to guarantee that the water
produced by the facilities of the Project reaches potential consumers.  In
the District this work would be done by its Hydraulic Works Department, and
in the State by the State Comision for Water and Sewerage (the Ccmiision
Estatal) and by municipalities. The District is suitably qualified to carry
out this work, however not enough is known about the State's entities to
pass judgment on their competence. Assurances were obtained from the
Federal Government during negotiations that the District will invest at
least Mex$700 million in water distribution facilities through 1976, and
that the Federal Government will use its best efforts to coordinate the
investment program of the Comisiom with the Mex$430 million water
distribution investments of the State. For the purposes mentioned above,
the Federal Government is prepared to make available to the District and
the State the funds required by them.
Sewage and Storm Water Drainage
3.07      Because the Valley is a closed basin, there is no natural drainage
from it, and storm water flooding has traditionally been a problem. The
solution has been to conduct storm and wastewaters by gravity through out-
fall tunnels under the surrounding mountains aad thence into existing
rivers. Two such tunnels have been built and a third is planned; the
ultimate capacity would be 250 m3/sec. The waters reach the tunnels via
the Gran Canal which receives waters from smaller canals and collectors
that cross the city in parallel, south to north paths; at present, one
additional outfall and two interceptors are under construction. Subsequent
to the construction of the original collectors and Gran Canal, the area's
ground surface subsided (largely due to the removal of groundwater), and it
is now necessary to lift wastewaters into the collectors from the combined
sewer system; more than thirty pump stations have been built around the
city for this purpose.  Although there are several sewage treatment plants,
they serve a relatively small segment of the population, and the bulk of
the sewage reaches the collectors without treatment. The treated sewage
is generally used as irrigation water in public parks and agriculture.



-7-
3.08      The sewerage and drainage capital expansion program for the
Federal District between 1972-1976 would cost about Mex$4.0 billion.
There is no special charge for sewerage, however property owners pay a
real estate tax the purpose of which is, among others, to cover the costs
of these services (about 25% of the proceeds of the tax are allocated to
sewerage and drainage works). Since property owners are beneficiaries,
and the value of the benefits received can be related to the value of the
property served or protected, the property tax is an appropriate way to
meet costs, particularly to storm water drainage. An examination during
appraisal indicated that the Federal District water and sewerage system
planning and construction program is technically adequate, and is being
executed by competent staff engineers.
3.09      The Decree which established the Comision gives it exclusive
authority to develop water sources but does not explicitly grant it rights
to obtain sewage for reclamation and resale. Since under certain circum-
stances wastewaters are an economically viable source of water, a study
a3inegotiation on.the allocation of, and compensation for, the wastewater
will be undertaken by the Coanision, District and State (see paragraph 4.12).



-8-
4. THE PROJECT
Project Planning
4.01      In 1971 ATEC assembled various subprojects into a program and a
report was prepared in time for the September 1972 appraisal mission. Large-
ly because of the speed at which the Project had to be prepared, its quality
in some respects is not as high as would be desirable. Demand projections
are based upon gross needs (data for detailed breakdowns of demand by con-
sumer categories were deficient), demand by sub-regions was not analyzed,
and detailed designs for some of the subprojects are still under preparation.
However, planning is considered adequate for appraisal purposes because:
(i) there have been several groundwater studies which
confirm the adequacy of proposed sources;
(ii) the technical complexity of the subprojects--
largely groundwater wells and transmission conduits--
is moderate and has been mastered by the Mexicans
on numerous previous projects;
(iii) the composition of the Project--six subprojects
phased over time--permits flexibility in investment
timing should demands differ fram projections;
(iv) reliable data on the costs of individual subprojects
enabled the Bank to confina the justification of the
selected construction sequence for the subprojects; and
(v) Bank preappraisal missions advised upon and supervised
the preparation of financial statements and forecasts
by the consultants.
Economic, groundwater and tariff studies (paragraph 4.12) planned for the
duration of the Project would keep it under constant scrutiny, and changes
in investment and construction strategy would be made if necessary. One
member of the Bank's National Water Study team would devote most of his
attention to these studies and to water planning in the Valley of Mexico
in general.
Project Description
4.02      The lyoject consists of five groundwater and one surface water
supply schemesy related treatment and transmission facilities, and a
multi-purpose land reclamation-afforestation and irrigation scheme, all to
be built under the jurisdiction of the Comisi6n. A brief description of
the Project elements follows?
/ In addition, one groundwater subproject (Southeastern well field) is
under consideration.  A decision on this subproject is dependent on
negotiations between the Comision and agriculturists concerning com-
pensation for abstracted water. If built, it would replace a more
costly subproject, provided the Guarantor and the Bank shall so agree.



-9.-
Pozos Sur:  A 30-unit well field of 2.5 n3/sec yield located 15 km south
of the city center and linked to the distribution system by a 1.22 m
diameter conduit.
Guadalupe: A surface water scheme which would draw 2 m3/sec of water
from the existing irrigation dam on the Cuautitlan River at Guadalupe,
and treat and transmit it to two service reservoirs located in the State
of Mexico just north of the Federal District.
3
Cuautitlan: A 3.3 X /sec expansion of an existing well field located
35 km north of the city to serve the Federal District and the densely
populated areas in the State just north of the District. A 1.83 m
diameter conduit would convey the water to the metropolitan area.
Los Reyes: A 3.7 m3/sec well field 42 km northeast of Mexico City and
transmission facilities.
Apan: A 3.0 m3/sec well field 70 km northeast of the city, with a 2.40 m
diameter conduit to the metropolitan area.
Texcoco: A multipurpose scheme which would produce 1.0 m3/sec of ground-
water for water supply; treat wastewater for agricultural and industrial
use; provide treated wastewater for a 4,000 hectare irrigation zone;
extract industrial quality salt from saline waters; regulate surface
waters, and reclaim 6,200 hectares of land through afforestation (with
a resultant diminution of dust storms). This subproject is described
in greater detail in Annex 2.
Public Works: Attached to each of the above subprojects are certain
social-type public works, "obras sociales", which social considerations
require to be undertaken as a form of water-rights compensation to residents
of areas from Wuich water is to be abstracted. These works, consisting
of schools, roads, health care centers and similar facilities, will by
their nature largely benefit the poorer people of the region.
Cost Estimates
4.03      Although most of the Project designs are preliminary at this
time, the cost estimates are reasonable because the technology of the
physical works is relatively simple and similar projects have been routinely
executed by the Federal District. The cost estimates for water source
and major transmission conduits are based upon estimated quantities multi-
plied by unit prices of recent similar work in Mexico. The cost of the
public works is estimated herein at 5% of the cost of the water supply
work, while the cost of the Texcoco land reclamation, afforestation,
irrigation and dust control scheme is based upon estimates resulting from
a detailed engineering study. The estimates are at 1972 price levels.
An annual local and foreign price contingency of 5% and a technical con-
tingency of 15% of construction cost has been allowed through a perriod
of construction for possible price increases. The recent changes in
the value of foreign currencies are not expected to affect project costs
significantly because project estimates were based on western hemisphere
prices.



-10-
4.04      The estimated costs of the Project are presented below.  Detailed
cost estimates for each subproject by contract category are presented in
Annex 1.
CCNSTRUCTICN COSTS B! SUBPRQJSCTS
in Mex$                      in US$
Bank
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Loan
- - - -           miVions - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Construction
Pozos Sur                   44       29      73       4       2       6      3
Cuautitlan                  25      16       41       2       1       3      2
Guadalupe                   56      38       94       5       3       8      4
Los Reysa                  134       89     223       1       7      18       9
Texcoco - water             80      53      133       7       4      11      5
Apan                       30?      201     503      24      16      40      20
Texoco - non-water         107       72     179       8       6      14       7
Public Works                42      11       53       3       1       4       2
Studies                     46       0       46       4       0       4      0
Sub-total                m       7Y   1,30                        lob     7
Contingencies
Technical                  122      74      196       9       6      15       8
Price                      117       72     189       9       6      15       8
Construotion subtotal  I1         m                        2 ,17 13
&igineering and Adminis-
tration     210        0     210       17      0      17       8
Total Cost of the
Project         1,285      655   1,940      103     52      155     76
Interest on Bank loan
during construction         -      178      178      -       14      14     14
Total to be financed
by Bank                         -   -                -                      90
4.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of physical works and
equipment was caloulated to be about 4OZ by averaging the foreign exchange
costs of all of the Project elements - wells, aqueducts, treatment plants
and pumping stations.   The foreign exchange component of the Project -
including studcies, engineering and administxation - is about-34%.
Parallel to the Project investments, the Fedeal District and the State of
Mexico would invest in water distribution facilities which, though not a
part of the Project, also have a foreign exchange cost. The total cons-
truction cost of these distribution works to be installed during the
period of 1972 to 1976 is estimated at Mex$1,100 million of which the
foreign exchange component would constitute about 30% or Me*30O



-11-
million (US$26.4 million). In order to offset this foreign exchange out-
flow, it is proposed to increase the portion of the construction cost of
the Project to be financed by the Bank to 50%f
Amount of Proposed Loan
4h06      A loan for US$90 million is proposed in order to finance:
(i)  50% of the estimated cost of all civil works and
equipment supply contracts, including engineering,
administration and contingencies (but excluding the
studies of paragraph 4.12) of US$7600 million. This
amount would include US$24 million in local costs; and
(ii) interest on the Bank loan during construction of
US$14 million.
Procurement
4.07      All of the contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan will be placed after international competition in accordance
with the Bankts guidelines, except those for public works, land reclama-
tion, and afforestation. The latter are small contracts (estimated
individual value from five to fifteen thousand dollars) which are not
suitable for international competitive bidding and will be awarded based
on price quotations. At present none of the equipment to be procured is
subject to preference under the Latin American Free Trade Agreement (LAFTA),
but Mexican suppliers of equipment and materials will be eligible for
preference equal to the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation subject
to a ceiling of 15%. It is expected that all of the civil works contracts
and most of the equipment supply contracts (with the exception of special-
ized treatment plant equipment) would be won by local firms. Tender
documents for civil works estimated to cost more than Mex$20 million,
and all tender documents for equipment, would be subject to Bank review
prior to advertisement.
4.08      Contracts would be advertised by category (well construction,
civil works, well pumps, etc.) as shown in the tabulation of Annex 1.
Wherever feasible by timing and/or location, contracts would combine
work of two or more subprojects to attract international competition.
Disbursement
4.09      The Bank loan would be disbursed against 57% of the cost oi
contracts (50% for project works and 7% to finance half of the cost of
engineering and administration)0 The estimated disbursement schedule is
given in Annex 4.



-12-
Construction Schedule
4.10      The construction activity schedule is shown in Chart 7177.
Construction of the Cuautitlan subproject is in progress by the State
of Mexico and some preliminary investments have been made by the Federal
Government (SRH) for the Pozos Sur and the Texcoco subprojects (water
and non-water); both are to be taken over by the Comisi6n.
Project Execution
4.11      The Project would be executed by the Comisi6n.  Design and
construction supervision would be by the Comisi6n's staff, assisted
by consiltants on technically complex matters. Preliminary design
for all subprojects has been completed. Final design and contract
documents for Cuautitlan and Pozos Sur are being prepared now by Comisi6n
staff which are largely drawn from the defunct Hydrological Commission
of the Valley of Mexico, a former agency of SRHI, and other SRH agencies.
So far only a portion of the technical and administrative staff have
been appointed and they appear to be competent, but neither SRH nor
the Comisi6n executives have had any experience in administering a large
public utility, such as the Comisi6n will be. Close supervision by the
Bank and, possibly, assistanc.e by engineering and management consultants
will be required during the initial years of operation, because the
Comisi6n is a new entity and will need time to organize itself before
functioning smoothly. Due to the complexity of the Project, Bank super-
vision will be more difficult than usual for a water supply project.
Particular attention will be given to project and financial management,
planning and the review of studies. During negotiations the Bank has
been given assurances that management consultants would be employed;
this is discussed in paragraph 6.05.
Studies
4.12      In order to develop economically and socially rational water
supply investment and pricing policies that appropriately consider the
potential for population growth and distribution, urban and suburban
development, industrial and agricultural water use, and waste water
renovation and reuse, several studies are in progress by the Comisi6n,
and others would be undertaken by the Comisi6n, State and the Federal
District. At the Comisi6n's request, the Bank would not finance any
of these studies, Agreement was reached during negotiations on the
number, character and completion dates of the studies to be undertaken,
that the studies should reflect the goals on water use established by
the Government ( coordination with the national water study), and that
the Bank would be given the opportunity to review and comment on the terms
of reference and draft final reports of the studies. A list of these
studies is given in Annex 1.



-13-
Environmental Aspects
4.13      The Project will increase water supply in the metropolitan area,
especially in the peripheral low income areas. The availability of additional
water in many of these areas will permit a change from public hydrants to
individual house connections, thus improving sanitation. To the extent that
the inoreased water use increases sewage flows, the Project might increase
potential hazards of contamination until the existing outfall (Gran Canal)
is covered. The Federal District has plans eventually to construct a cover
over the canal, but because the canal traverses mostly only sparsely inhabited
areas the problem is not acute and the timing for this work has not been
determined. Downstream water use of the river into which the outfalls
discharge is for agricultural irrigation only and the farmers in the area
reportedly prefer the sewage to available fresh water.
4.14      The Texcoco multipurpose project will, among other indirect
benefits (detailed in Annex 2), substantially reduce Mexico City's air
pollution by eliminating dust storms from the Texcoco area -- irrigation
and afforestation will transform the existing desert into parks and
agricultural and urban development land. To improve soil conditions, the
Federal District is starting a program of composting the city's garbage at
sites in Texcoco and will use the compost as a soil conditioner. The compost-
ing operation is not included in the Bank-financed Project.



-1h-
5. JUSTIFICATION
Demand Forecasts and Investment Objectives
5.01      Water demands in the metropolitan area are not universally ful-
filled because of deficits in supply capacity. At times, in certain areas,
water pressures are low and service is interrupted entirely. Deficiencies
are expected to continue into 1974 (even though the District is presently
andertaking expansion of existing sources of supply), but improvements
would occur later that year as a result of the Project and parallel invest-
ments in distribution facilities by the District and State. The Project
would meet the metropolitan areats demand for water through 1977, and would
make it possible for numerous consumers to change from public hydrants to
house connections; without the augmented supply the increased demands which
inevitably result from such a change could not be met. This improvement in
water service will occur in crowded, substandard residential zones on the
city's fringe -- zones deprived of adequate public services because of
their rapid growth and poverty. The State distribution systems would form
part of a development program for urban improvements undertaken by the
State of Mexico in the suburban areas.
5.02      Water demand for the area is projected to increase at about 6.5%o
annually for the design period of the Project (through 1977), with a cor-
responding population increase of about 5% annually in the District, 7.5%
in the State, and 5.5% in the combined metropolitan area (see Chart 7166
and Table 1, Annex 3). Demand projections (see Chart 7167) are based upon
forecasts of the population served and a gross per capita allotment (which
combines residential, industrialp and commercial needs and unaccounted-for water)
of a constant 360 liters per capita per day (lcd) for the entire population
of the Federal District. The value is assumed to remain constant over time
because increases in per capita demand and increases in the percentage of
population served are assumed to be offset by decreased in unaccounted-for
water. In the State the corresponding gross per capita value is expected
to vary over time; it is estimated at 280 lcd in 1973, with a gradual increase
to 340 lcd by 1977, reflecting rising incomes, improved service and-conversions
from public standpipes to house Qonnections. In 1977, about 76% of the water
produced by the Comisi6n (15.5 m-/sec) would be sold to the Federal District,
representing 27% of the District's total demand. The balance of the Comisi6n's
supply would be sold to the Statets Comisi6n Estatal and other entities in the
State. A detailed discussion of demand is given in Annex 3.
5.03      In contrast to the other subprojects, which are purely water supply
in nature, the goal of the Texcoco scheme is to develop the potential of the
Texcoco intermittent lake and its environs, located immediately east northeast
of the metropolitan area. At present the area is largely uninhabited because
of frequent flooding and frequent dust storms. The elimination of these dust
storms would substantially decrease air pollution in Mexico City. In addition
to providing water supply, the investments would reclaim land for urbanization
and agriculture, reduce the incidence of dust storms, and provide an agricultural
and industrial economic base to sustain settlement. Direct and indirect benefits
were analyzed in a study performed by consultants. For the purpose of analyzing



-15-
rates of return, tariffs and financing, the Texcoco subproject has been divided
into water supply and non-water supply related parts. Costs of the latter
(Texcoco non-water) are included in the financial projections but are not in-
cluded in the calculation of the rate base. The Texcoco subproject, its costs
and benefits, are described in detail in Annex 2.
Selection of Proposed Project
5.04      The Project is the least-cost method, at discount rates of up to
15%, for providing Mexico City with projected bulk water needs through 1977.
The construction sequence of the subprojects is in the order of increasing
unit costs (Mex$/m3) with the exception of the Texcoco water supply sub-
project, which cannot be advanced because it is dependent upon the timing of
parallel investments. A revision of the timing or sequencing of subprojects
would be easily possible and might be desirable if demand is more or less
than projected, if a program to reuse waste waters is promptly developed
and implemented, or if groundwater can be mined at rates greater than pres-
ently foreseen.  Information produced by ongoing and proposed studies would
form the basis for any revisions to the investment program. Revisions are
not likely to be required during the first two or three years of Project
execution, due to the time required (i) to conduct the studies, and (ii) for
retail tariff increases and other measures by the Federal District to affect
water consumption. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
investment program would not be revised without prior Bank approval. The
studies will also determine the investment program in the post-project
period, for which decisions will have to be made during the execution of
the Project.
Project Evaluation
5.05      Rate of return calculations on water supply investments (both the
Comisi6n and the retailers distributing the water) as performed in the Bank
use the observed willingness of consumers to pay as the sole measure of
project benefits. The observed willingness to pay (i.e., the average re-
venues at 1973 tariff levels) in Mexico City is substantially below the
cost of producing the incremental volume of water under the Project; hence
the rate of return of the Project on this basis is only 4h  (see Annex 5).
The low return is not necessarily an indication of an uneconomic investment,
but rather an indication of the inadequacy of employing the observed willing-
ness to pay criterion as the measure of benefits in the highly distorted
market of Mexico City. Ideally, a more appropriate criterion should be built
upon knowledge of the demand function for water and a ouantification of ben-
efits not reflected in the observed willingness to pay; however, this is not
possible because the necessary data are not available.
5.O6      The absence of data precludes designing the capacity of the Project
to reflect price-demand relationships (some assumptions were made on price-
elasticity in relation to the rate of return, however, see Annex 5). The
high per-capita consumption of about 360 liters would indicate that there is
some scope for reducing consumption which, in turn, would permit a longer
construction period of the Project. Given the numerous other distortions
in the Mexico City economy which contribute to its explosive growth, an opti-
mum project is conceptually impossible to define.  The problem of the growth



-16-
and structure of Mexico City would be studied under the Project within a
general, urban and regional planning context s0 corrective measures could
be adopted in the medium-end long-term future.
5.07      It is not realistic to believe that changes in parameters associated
with the water project could have a substantial influence on the growth and
structure of the urban area. Nor would it be feasible to delay expansion of
bulk water supply until policies and actions on urban growth have been devel-
oped and implemented. Within the limitations of the water sector, the Project
contributes to the goal of reducing distortions by having stimulated a sub-
stantial retail tariff increase by stipulating a rise in the revenue effective-
ness index (see paragraph 7.13) and by exerting pressures for keeping water
tariffs in line with costs.
5.08      Mexico City's immediate water requirements are clear.  The cost of
not satisfying these requirements is likely to be high and would fall largely
upon the poorer segments of the population living in areas where shortages
occur first and where distribution system extensions are made possible
because of the Project.
Project Risks
5.09      Risks relative to the execution of the Project are mediuk.  The
newness of the Borrower's organization might reduce its ability to plan and
execute all of the subprojects in a timely and efficient manner. The tech-
nical aspects of the Project are relatively simple and similar works have
been successfully executed by SRH engineers, but much will depend upon the
quality of suppliers and contractors and of the Comisi6nts project staff
and their ability to quickly begin planning, design and construction opera-
tions. To ensure the successful completion of the project, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government will finance, under condi-
tions similar to those of the Bank loan, any contracts not eligible for Bank
financing due to violations of Bank procurement rules. A one-year delay in
completion of subprojects is a possibility but, since other sources can be
over-exploited in the short run, serious water supply shortages should not
result.
5.10      Physical risks are low:  the availability of groundwater is certain,
abstraction costs can be estimated with reasonable accuracy, and the Govern-
ment has adequate financial resources to make up shortfalls if costs exceed
estimates. Risks relative to institutional objectives are medium. The
charter of the Comisi6n meets Bank approval and the bylaws have been re-
viewed by the Bank prior to negotiations. The Chief Executive appears to
be qualified and competent. Staffing is at an early stage, and the Bank
has no firm indication of (or control over) the quality of present and
proposed personnel. Assurances to promote the achievement of sound
management were obtained during negotiations (see paragraph 6.05).



-17-
6. THE COMISION
6.01      The Comision is a government agency within SRH and was created
by Presidential Decree August 17, 1972. At the present time, the Comision
exists in skeletal form, with a small staff only, and most of the key
positions in the organization (see Chart 7165) are yet to be filled.
6.o2      The President of the Comision is the incumbent Minister of
Hydraulic Resources. The Comision's general manager and deputy manager have
been appointed by the President of the Republic and serve at his pleasure.
The rest of the management and administrative staff will be appointed by
the Comision's president or general manager. Representatives of the
Federal District and the State of Mexico would be advisers to the Comision
on matters concerning price policy and coordination of planning and works.
6.03      The Comision has authority to establish bulk water tariffs, and
would negotiate conditions of bulk water wales--such things as price, water
quality, pressure, point of delivery, rates of flow, and minimum purchase
quantities--with water retailers. During negotiations the Comision has
agreed to conclude, as a condition of effectiveness such sales agreements
with the Federal District and the State of Mexico establishing, among other
thingb, a bulk water price according to the formula described in Annex 9.
6.04      The responsibilities and functions of the Comision are defined in
bylaws which were submitted to the Bank prior to negotiations along with job
description of key parsonnel. These documents accepted in principle by the
Bank, would be improved by the Comision and its management consultants in
accordance with guidelines prepared by the Bank and accepted by the Comision.
Assurances from the Govemnment were obtained during negotiations that the
Comision's bylaws will not be modified in d manner that could adversely
and substantially affect the execution of the Project.
6.o5      Because of its recent fonmation, and because so few staff are
known to the Bank, it is difficult to Judge the probable performance of the
Comision. To help assure effective Project execution and overall management
of the Comision, assurances were obtained that:
(i)  the Comision would engage management consultants within
90 days of the signature of the loan;
(ii) the Comision would hire, as a condition of effectiveness,
a competent financial manager;
(iii) accounting and internal auditing systems acceptable to
the Bank would be functioning before September 30, 1973;
(iv) a full audit of the Comision's accounts, by independent
auditors, would be made at least annually within five
months of the end of each financial year;
(v) consultants would be engaged to the extent necessary to
assist the Comision in carrying out the Project.



-18-
7.   FINANCES
General
7.01      This analysis discusses the finances of the ComisiSn only.
The finances of the principal water retailers--the Federal District and
the State of Nexicor--are discussed in Annexes 11 and 12. The period covered
by the analysis is the pre-project stage (1972),the Project stage (1973-1976)
and the post-project stage (1977-1980).
7.02      The Comisi&n began activities in 1972 with a Federal Government
contribution of Max$ 233 million for water schemes under construction.
Another capital contribution of Mex$ 52 million was made in 1972 by SRH, from
its current budget, for the Texcoco non-water subproject. These contributions
would cover not only the capital expenditures of the Comisi&i in 1972, but
also provide the Comisi&n with enough cash (Mex$ 25 million) to begin 1973 in
good financial condition.- -The Comision's operations would not earn revenues
until 1974; therefore all operating costs (mostly administrative) would be
capitalized during 1972 and 1973. The balance sheet as of December 31, 1972
is shown below:
TENTATIVE OPE3NING BALANCE SHEET A1S OF AUGUJST 17, 1972
(1.4 |million)
Works in Progress        180      Capital                             233
Total Fixed Assets       180      Contribution (SRH)                   52
Cash                     105      Total Equity                        285
Liabilities                        _
Total Assets             28       Total Equity and Liabilities        2,.
Financing Plan
7.03      Detailed financial Ugbles (Income Statements. Cash Flow Statements
and Balance Sheets) for the period 1972 through 1981 are in Annexes 6 to 8.
Annex 9 describes the assumptions used in the financial projections. The
financing plan of the Comisi&n for 1973-1976 is summarized below.



-19-
APPLICA.TIONS AND SOURCES OF FUNDS
Period 1973-1976
Mex$         US$
-----Million----          %
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Expenditure on Project                  1,940         155         80.0
Interest during Constriction               240         19          9.7
Total Works                          2,180         174        89.7
Increase in Working Capital                245         20         10.3
Total Applications                   2,425         194       100.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Resources
Internal Cash Generation               666          53        27.3
Less:  Debt ServicuLl                  (116)        (9)        (4.6)
Net Internal Cash Generation           550          44         22.7
Federal Government Loans                   450         36         18.6
IBRD Loan                               1,125          90        46.4
Total Borrowings                     1,575         126        65.O
Government Contributions                   300         24         12.3
Total Sources                        2 425         194       100.0
The plan is based upon:
(i) an average bulk water tariff of Mex$1.20/m3 (US$0.10)/;
(ii) net intermal cash generation after debt service of
U8$44 million equivalent;
(iii)  Bank financing of Us$90 million with an amortization
period of 20 years, after 4 years of grace, repaid
in equal semi-annual payments at an interest rate of
7 1/4%;
1/  Excludes interest during construction covered by Bank and Government
loans.
2/ The Comisi6n would sell bulk water to various organizations at different
tariff levels.



-20-
(iv) Federal Government loans of US$36 million equivalent
(Mez$450 million), representing 20% of the Project
cost plus interest during construction on all loans,
at an assumed interest rate of 12% repaid in equal
semi-annual payments over 7 years after a 3-year
grace period;
(v)  Federal Government contributions of US$24 million
equivalent (Mex$300 million) for financing 30% of the
Texcoco non-water subproject and the working capital of
the Comision.
7.o4     Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that the Comision would:
(i) establish average bulk water tariff according to a formula,
described in Annex 9, which divides the Comision's revenues
by the quantity of water sold, such revenues being sufficient
to provide the Comision with annual net internal resources
at least equal to the percentage of capital expenditures
stipulated in paragraph 7.08.
(ii) receive from the Government the funds necessary to carry out
the project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Guarantor and the Bank.
Fature Finances
7.05      The Comision's forecast income statments for selected years are
summarized below.
X9~74     1976      1978       1980
-MeX-ix$ Million ---
Revenues from water sales V             166      389        819./    1,117
Operating costs  /                      (30)     (91)      (159)     (253)
Depreciation 2                          (12)     (30)       (76)      (113)
Income before interest                  124      268        584       751
Operating ratio                         25%      31%        29%       33%
Financial rate of return on
net fixed assets in service           31%      28%        24%        22%
Cash generation as % of capital
expenditure                           24       42         43        34
zJ  Revenues and operating costs incurred in the production and sale of salt
and the treatment of sewage are not included in this analysis. These
items are included as "net other income" in the income statements of
Annex 7.    .
2  A 33% increase in bulk water tariffs is assumed in 1977.
S/ Does not include the depreciation on the Texcoco non-water works.



-21-
Operating Ratio
7.06      The operating ratio would remain at a relatively low level (around
30%) through the period 1974-1981, in contrast to the customary 60% or higher
in other water supply projects.  This is because groundwater exploitations is
relatively inexpensive and the Comision does not distribute water to retail
customers but only sells in bulk directly from transmission mains; operation
of bulk facilities of a groundwater scheme is substantially less costly than
operation of distribution facilities.
Financial Rate of Return
7.07      The financial rate of return of the Comision (calculated on non-
revalued fixed assets, net of Texcoco non-water assets - see Annex 9) would
decrease from 31% in 1974 to 22% in 1980 and then to 14% in 1981.  The high
rate of return through 1980 is because:
(i)  the Comision's investments quickly reach full
productivity and there is little or no excess
capacity;
(ii)  cash generation is deliberately high to help
finance investments; and,
(iii)  initial operating costs are low.
The gradual decrease in the rate of return until 1980 is due to the increase in
subproject costs. The successive subprojects are located at sites increasingly
distant from Mexico City, thus increasing capital requirements due to longer
transmission facilities. A large decrease occurs in 1981 when the first
expensive "long range scheme" constructed a long distance from Mexico City is
put into operation.
7.08      The financial position of the Comision would be sound through 1980,
with an annual debt service ratio of 2.5, a current ratio constantly above
1.5, and long-term debt about 56% of total capitalization. Accumulated cash
at completion of the Project (1976) would represent about 5% (Mex$254 million)
of the cost of the next stage of work. The annual net internal resources
would represent a substantial percentage of the annual capital expenditure,
24% in 1974, 35% in 1975 and 42% in 1976 (see Annex 8).  Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Comision's net internal resources would
be at least 24% in 1974 and 35% thereafter.
7.09      The Comision's finances between 1976-1980 have been projected to
illustrate its future investment requirements (described in paragraph 2.06),
t king into account the following assumptions:



-22-
(i)  internal cash generation would finance Mex1,800 million
(30%) of the Mex$6,000 million post-project stage
(1977-1981), plus the debt service. This would be possible
with an average bulk water tariff of Mex$1.60/:m3 (US$0.13/m3)
starting 1977;
(ii)  foreign loans, with terms equivalent to those of the Bank,
would finance Mex$2,400 million (40%) of the post-project
stage, plus the interest during construction, amounting to
about US$200 million; and,
(iii)  local loans would finance Mex$1,800 million (30%) of the
post-project stage, plus interest during construction.
Privately Produced Water
7.10      Policy in the District-s to charge private owners of wells for
the water they produce at the retail water tariff rates, based upon metered
water quantities or service pipeline diameter. While this is a desirable
economic and financial policy, it is not strongly enforced and many producers
are reportedly undercharged. Furthermore, in the State there is no such
responsibility for its removal, the Federal Governmnet assured during negotia-
tions that the Comision will continue its program to require private producers
in the Valley of Mexico to connect to public supplies if technically and
economically feasible, or where not feasible, to charge for privately produced
non-agricultural water at the bulk water tariff of the Comision.
Water Retailers
7.11      The principal retailers who will purchase water from the Comision
are the Federal District (who will take about 76% of the 1977 water production)
and the State of Mexico. In addition, water will also be purchased by
individual municipalities and industries. The finances of the Federal District
and the State have been examined to the extent available information permitted
and are summarized in Annexes 11 and 12.
7.12      In the Federal District, retail water tariffs had not been raised
for twenty years. In December 1972 the Mexican Congress approved a new tariff
regulation which increased tariffs by 100%, resulting in an average retail
tariff of about Mex$1.00/m3 for metered water (the new regulation is abstracted
on page 6 of Annex 11). The retail tariff is progressive, with small consumers
paying a low price and large consumers a high price for water. The new regula-
tion terminates the practice of supplying free water to governmental agencies,
thus permitting the Federal District to reduce the customary financial subsidy
of the water service.  Despite the new regulation, expected revenues would still
not cover the economic cost of providing the service (see Annex 13). Assurances
have been obtained from the Federal Covernment during negotiations that the
Federal  District will initiate a tariff study no later than January 31, 1974.



-23-
7.13      The success of efforts to increase revenues can be measured by
the Revenue Effectiveness Index which is calculated as follows:
Revenue Effectiveness Index (REI) = Revenues collected ,. volume produced
Average tariff/m5 on metered connections
A well-managed utility should be able to achieve a REI of 80%. A REI of 100%
is not possible because of unavoidable leakage and public uses, such as fire-
fighting. The Federal District achieved a REI of only 44% on water it produced
in 1971, due principally to the large number of payment-exempt customers.
Representatives of the Federal Government agree that the Federal District
should take the measures necessary to improve the REI from the present 44%
to 60% in 1976 and 70% in 1980 (annual targets are shown in Annex 11). In
order to strengthen controls on water produced privately, a separate REI for
private water should also be calculated; target values for this REI would
be established by the Federal District. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from the Federal Government that the Federal District would
implement measures to achieve the REI targets given in Annex 11 on the
water it produces and buys and that the Bank would be given access to
information required to verify REI's.



-24-
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Federal Government that:
(i) the District will invest at least Mex$700 million in
water distribution facilities and the Federal Government
will use its best efforts to coordinate the investment
program of the Comisi6n with the Mex$430 million water
distribution investment program of the State of Mexico.
To that effect, the Federal Government will make available
to the District and the State all funds required by them
(paragraph 3.06);
(ii) the studies described in Annex 1 will be continued
and carried out by the Comisi6n and the Bank will have
a reasonable opportunity to comment on the conclusions
thereof; furthenmore, study no. 3 will reflect national
water resources allocations and study no. 6 will
be carried out under terms of reference to be settled
with the concurrence of the Bank (paragraph 4.12);
(iii)  the investment program of the Comisi6n will not be
revised without prior Bank agreement (paragraph 5.04);
(iv) the Comisi6n's bylaws will not be modified in a manner
that could adversely and substantially affect the execution
of the project (paragraph 6.04);
(v) the Comisi6n will have functioning, not later than
September 30, 1973, accounting and internal auditing
systems acceptable to the Bank and will employ independent
commercial auditors for annual audits which will be
submitted within five months of the end of each financial
year (paragraph 6.05);
(vi) the Comisi6n will engage construction consultants as
necessary to assist in carrying out the project and
will employ consultants for management, organization
and personnel matters within 90 days of the signing of
the loan (paragraph 6.05);
(vii) the average bulk water tariff will be set according to the
formula which divides the Comisi6n's revenues by the quantities
of water sold, such revenues being sufficient to provide the
Comisi6n with annual net internal resources at least equal
to an annual percentage of capital expenditures of no less
than 24% in 1974 and 35% in each year thereafter
(paragraphs 7.04 and 7.08);



-25-
(viii) the Comisi6n will receive from the Federal Government the
funds necessary to carry out the project on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank
(paragraph 7.04);
(ix) The Comisi6n will continue its program to require private
producers of non-agricultural water in the Valley of Mexico
to connect to public systems where feasible and, where not
feasible, charge such producers at least at the bulk water
tariff of the Comisi6n (paragraph 7.10);
(x)  the Federal District will improve the Revenue Effectiveness
Index (REI) for water it produces or purchases and give the
Bank access to information required to verify compliance
(paragraph 7.13).
8.02      The following events will be conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  Comisi6n has entered into contractual arrangements
with the Departamento del Distrito Federal and the
Government of the State of Mexico for the sale of bulk
water in amounts which justify the carrying out of the
Project, to the satisfaction of the Guarantor and the
Bank (paragraph 6.03);
(ii) the Comisi6n will have engaged a competent financial
manager (paragraph 6.05).
8.03      With the above assurances, the Project is suitable for a US$90
million Bank loan for a tenm of 24 years including a 4-year grace period.
May 24, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 13 Pages
MEICO
CCMISI  DE AGUIAS DEL VAILLE DE MECO
MECO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
E3ISTING WATER SYSTEMS AND PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Zxisting Water Systems in the Valley of Mexico
I.  Aencies and their Functions
(i)   Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources
A Federal Ministry responsible for water resource development
throughout the nation.
(ii)   Hydrological Commission for the Valley of Mexico
Fomed in 1951 as an agency of the SRH to plan and coordinate
all studies and works conceming surface and subsurface water
resources in the valley. This Commission was disbanded in 1972
with the fonmation of the Gomision de Aguas del Valle de Mexico.
(iii)   Comision de Aguas del Valle de Mexico
Founded in 1972 as an agency of the SRH, the Comisi'n is
responsible for the planning, design, construction and
operation of all water sources to be built both within and
outside of the valley in order to meet the non-agricultural
water needs of the valley. It will sell water to the District,
State and local governments and to large industrial consumers.
(iv)   The Department of Hydraulic Works of the Federal District of Mexico
The Department plans, designs and builds water distribution systems
for the Federal District. Prior to the creation of the ComisiGon
de Aguas del Valle de Mexico, it also built water source systems.
(v)   The Department of Water and Sewerage of the Federal District of Mexic(
Operates and maintains completed systems in the Federal District.
(vi)   The Oomisifn Estatal of the State of Mexico
The State of Mexico surrounds the Federal District on three sides
and contains numerous municipalities and local governmental



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 13 Pages
agencies. Most water systems in the State are locally controlled,
but in an attempt to unify water services, the "Comision Estatal"
for Water and Sewerage, was formed in 1971. The Comisi'n
Estatal operates bulk water sources for the municipalities of
Naucalpan and Tlalnepantla. It would purchase bulk water from
the Comisi8n de Aguas for resale to local governments. While
it may build distribution systems in the future, it would not
build water source systems.
(vii) Municipalities and Local Communities
There are 12 municipal and 53 community systems in the State.
Their water systems are either self-owned or owned and operated
by SRH, the Comisi6n Estatal, or the Ministry of Health.
(viii)  Private Sources
Many private consumers of water have drilled wells and provided
their own source of supply. At present, in the Federal District,
the water produced by these sources is metered charged and paid
to the District at the tariff applicable to water produced and
sold by the District itself; there is no similar charge in the
State.
II. Present Systems
(i) Ground water is the sole water source, and All sources with the
exception of the Lerma source are located in the Valley of
Mexico.
Name                                   Yield
lochimilco                               s.5  3/sec
Manantiales del Poniente                 0.8
Chiconantla                              3.5
El Pe6io'n                               0.5
Lerma                                   12.4
Chalco (Tlahuac-Mi8quic)                 2.5
Municipal wells (Federal District)       4.5
Private wells (Federal District)         2.5
Public wells (State of Mexico)           4.4
Private wells (State of Mexico)          3X5
Total (Net of 5% transmission losses)  39.6
(ii) Booster Pumping - Federal District
There are six booster pumping stations with a total capacity
of 29.3 m3/sec.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 13 Pages
Stationi Name             Installed Capacity
W/37sec)
lotepirngo                     11.3
San Crlstobal                   2.5
San Juan Ixhautepec            3.5
Carro del Penon                 1.0
Antonio Alzate                  7.0
Ano de la Estrella              4.0
29.3
(iii)  Service Reservoirs - Federal District
Reservoir Name        Year Constructed     Capacity
Dolores                    1910             0.20 million m3
Santa Isabel               1954-58          0.11
El Penon                   1954-59          0.05
Aeroclub                   1959-64          0.05
San Bernabe                1965-70          0.08
Las Torres                 1965-70          0.10
El Cartero                 1967             0.02
Santa Fe                   1968             0.03
Zarago2a                   1965-70          0.07
Santa Lucia                1965-70          0.13
Cerro de la Estrella       1970             0.15
0.99
(iv) Water Treatment - District
Since ground water is usually physically, chemically and
biologicaly of high quality, the only treatment provided most
waters is chlorination for disinfection purposes. Waters that
are high in color, taste, odor, turbidity or bardness are
given further treatment; the following table lists the plants
in which these characteristics are removed.
Plant Name           Capaci       Problem                Process
(m3/sec)
Francisco de Garaz     0.50    Color and odor Degasification, filtration,
ozonization and chlorination
Roberts Gayol          o.06    Color and odor Degasification, filtration,
ozonization and chlorination
Manuel Marroquln y     0.25    Hardness        Chemical precipitation,
Rivera                                       solids contact, filtrtion
and chlorination
Villa Acosta           0.05     Turbidity      Sedimentation and chlorination



AM= 1
^MjF4ofI1  Page.
(v) Distribution System - District
Length-ardrTears Constructed
Diameter           Before 1                     1965-71      Total
1.22                    26             67          72          165
0.98                    14             29           -           63
0.80                     7                          -             7
0.76                     2              5           -             7
o.61                     1                    -                   1
0.51                    3)             29           _           6
subtotal                 t             m70         72-          ;
less than 0.51        30                         3300         229
Total                 3084           3350        3372         9806
(vi) Major Water Systems - State of Mexico
Population
System               Population       Seryed _               Wa  ec
NZT                   850,000        645,ooo      314         3.20
Cuautitl~n             76,000         35000        76         o.06
Ecatepec-Coacalco     300,000        220,000      223         0.75
Netzahualcoyotl       650,000        530,000       67         1.00
Zone V                 70,000      Not available   41         0.12
San Juan and           50,000      Not available   30         0.07
Ixhautepec
B. Proposed Project
The proposed Project corsists of one surface water (uada.Lupe)
and five groundwater schemeso 'The surface water vill receive conventional
treatment of chemical coagulation, sedimentation, raPid aand filtration,
chlorination and fluoridation, and the groundwater will be chlorinated and
fluoridated. Data on the groundwater schemes are prevented in Table I of
this Annex, Tables 2, 3 and 4 show detailed cost estimates of the proJect
works and the multi-purpose aspects of the Texcoco scheme are detailed in
Annex 2. Cost estimates are based on actual costs of similar proJects
executed during the last few years and are considered reliable.
A huge but unquantifiable amount of water is stored by nature below
ground; by drawing upon this storage, water can be removed, for a limited
duration, at a greater rate than it is replenished.  This  mivning" of water
has been practiced in Mexico City center for years, and contributes substantially
to the subsidence rf the earth's surface which, in turn, damages buildings and
other structures; the present mining rate of about 6 m3/sec causes an estimated
Mex$100 million damages annually. In areas where the probability of damage is
light, mining is a viable alternative to developing other, more distant (and



Annex 1
Page 5 of 1) Page.
hence more costly) water sources. One geologist estimates that 5.5 km3 of
water could be economically mined in the Valley outside of built-up areas.
Under the Project about 8 m3/sec would be mined outside of the city, and
studies, which are crucial to assuring that post-project works are economically
planned would establish the rate and location of future, post-project, safe
yields.
The Guadalupe surface water scheme would draw 2 m3/sec from a
reservoir built in 1943 for irrigation purposes on the Cuautitlan River, 30 km
from the city center. The dam is of rock-fill, clay core construction, with a
concrete apron.
The principal characteristics are:
Watershed area                        270 km2
Storage capacity                       54.5 x 1063
Dead storage                            1.5 x 10 m
Crest elevation                     2308.8 m
Dam height                             28 m
Spillway capacity                     280 m3/sec
Freeboard                               2 m
Capacity, right intake                  2 m/sec
capacity, left intake                  28 m3/sec
A treatment plant with chlorinations coagulation, sedimentation,
filtration and fluoridation processes would be constructed in the vicinity
of the dam. The principal characteristics of the plant would be:
Chemical feed:      Coagulants and coagulant aids-liquid feed
Lixe and fluoride - gravemetric feed
Chlorine - gas/water solution
Rapid mix:          Meithanical
Flocculation:       Mechanical
Sedimentation:      Rectangular basins, tube settlers
Sludge disposal:   Manual, to sewer
Filtration:         Variable head, declining rate
Metering:           Influent and effluent
The work would be completed by year-end 1974 at a cost of
Ps 108 x 100 (1972 Mexico and U.S. prices) including 15% physical contingency
but net of engineering and administration.
Proposed Distribution Systems
The distribution systems work to be built by the Federal District,
the State of Mexico and Municipalities within the State, would consist of
pipe, ranging in size from 4 to 48 inches, and booster pumping stations
and service reservoirs as necessary, to augment the present system and to
develop new and unserved areas. Design of the proposed work has not
commenced and cost estimates are based upon unit prices for the population
and land area to be served.



Anex 1
Page 6 of 13 pages
The distribution works of water retailers (Federal District,
Comision Estatal, Municipalities and others) are not part of the Bank
project. The costs of such works were estimated to determine the invest-
ment needs of the retailers and to develop a basis for obtaining assurances
from the Federal Government that financing for distribution system works
will be available.
Studies
Several studies financed by the Cumision are in progress or
would be undertaken during the course of the Project by the Coaision or
consultants. Other studies should be undertaken by the Federal District,
or jointly by the Comision and other entities. At the request of the
Comision, Bank funds will not be used to finance these studies. Nevertheless,
the Comision accepts that the Bank would be given the opportunity to review
the terms of reference and draft reports of these studies because of their relevance
to the Project and its objectives. The purpose of the studies is to develop
medium-and long-term water supply investment programs based on more accurate
data on population growth and distribution, urban development, water demand,
industrial and agricultural water use, and water reuse potential. A list
of the studies is prese-ted below, with target completion dates in
parenthesis.
(i)  A study of the economics of groundwater extraction,
including optimum well field locations, water removal
rates and quantities.
(ii) A study on saline intrusion into the proposed Texcoco
well field which could result in a revised forecast
of safe yield.
(iii) A continuous review of investment strategy employing
current data on water source yields, water demands,
construction costs, urban planning regulations,
technological innovations, and regional optimization
of design of transmission, distribution, storage and
distribution systems; such studies to reflect natioftal
water resources allocations.
(iv) A study of the merits of sewage and drainage water
reuse, either directly for industry and irrigaticn, or
indirectly for aquifer recharge, and determine the
disposal of sewage and drainage water.
(v)  A feasibility study leading to the selection of
facilities needed to satisfy water demands after 1980.
(vi) A study of retail water tariff levels and structure,
and water department operations.
Data and information from ie ongoing metropolitan area land use
development study will be made avail le to the Ccision.



TECHNICAL DATA ON WATER SCHEMES OF THE PROJECT
SGE:ME
Cuautitlan     Pozos Sur  Los Reyes            Guadalupe       Texcoco      Apan
Completion Date (Year End)                  1973            1973           1974             1974           1975          1976
Source                                      Groundwater    Groundwater    Groundwater       Surf ace Water  Groundwater  Groundwater
Yiela  (m /sec)                             3-3             2.5            3.7              2.0            1.0           3.0
Wells                                        55             30              51               -              23           52
Yield/well i/sec)                           60              100            65               C               100          65
2/                                       Complete
Treatment                                   C1, F1          C1, Fl         Cl, Fl           Treatment       Cl, Fl       Cl, Fl
Distance (km) & Direction from City         35,North        15,South       48,Northeast    30,North         24,East       70, North-
Well Depth (m)                               200            3/              200              _              300           200
Well Spacing (m)                             400            3/              500              -              500           500
Pumping Head (m)                              90            3/             158              Gravity          60           98
Aqueduct Diameter (zn)                       1.83           1.22            1.83            1.22            1.06          2.40
4/                                                                                  6/
Bulk Water Production Costs   (Mex$/m3)     0.42            0.41           0.70             0.56            0.57         1.33
Investment Cost, Total   (Mex$ x 106        47              84              256             108             153          579
Investment Cost, per m3/sec (Meb$ x 106      14             34               69             54              153           193        X|
1/ Net of 10% standby capacity.                                                                                                     -0 4
2/  C- - Chlorination; Fl = Fluoridation
3/ Data on Pozos Sur not available.
1   Composed of operating costs and capital recovery in 30 years at 10%. Volume based upon retail volume, i.e., net of
2C0 leakage.                                                                                                                      V
5/ 1972 prices, includes 15% physical contingency but net of engineering and administration.                                          a
Z/ Including costs of sewage treatment and irrigation.
May 24, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table No. 2
Page 8 of 13 Bages
CONSTRUCTION COSTS BY CONTRACT CATEGORY-
Bank                           Bank
Local Foreign  Total  Loan   Local  Foreign  Total  Loan
__-_Mbx$ MilIion ----_--   -------US$ million--
Surtace Water Intakes
Civil Works               12     10       22    11       1      1         2     1
Wells
Civil Works               49     28       77    38       4      2         6     3
Equipment                  6     48       54    27       -      4         4     2
Transmission
Civil Works             419    245       664   332      34     20        54    27
Pump Stations
Civil Works               16      7       23    12       2      -         2    -1
Equipment                  2     10       12      6      -       1        1     1
Service Reservoirs
Civil Works               18      7       25    12       2      -         3     2
Equipment                  -      1         1     1      -       -        -     -
Treatment Facilities
Civil Works              12       4       16      8      1      -         1     -
Equipment                  3     12       15      7      -      1         1     1
Misc. Equipment               2      1        3      2      -       -        -     -
Right-of-Way                 22      -       22      -      2       -        2
Other Work (Texcoco)
Civil Works             180      85      265   132      14      7        21    10
Equipment                  7     40       47    24       1      3         4     2
Construction Cost           748    498    1 246   612      61     39       100    50
1/ Exclusive of public works, studies, contingencies and engineering
and administration.
May 24, 1973



MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE NEXICO
MnXc6 CITY WATER SUPP$Y PROJEOT
CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE-'
Subproject
Pbzos Sur        Cuautitlan         Guadalupe    Los Reyes             Texcoco Water         Ape            Texcoco-Non-Water          Total
Item                              ----------------------------------------------- Mex$ x IO ------ - ------------------------------------------------------
Intake Structure
Civil Works                                                            21,470                                                                                            281470
Equipment                                                                 280                                                                                             280
Wells
Civil Works                        16,000             7,500                              24,400                               28,60                                    76,5530
Equipment                          11,200             6,800                               15,000                               21,3b0                                  54,380
Transmission
Civil Works                        36,200            17,870            31,500           151,580                              426,430                                  663,580
Pump Stations
Civil Works                         6,ooo             2,700             2,250             5,850                                 6,630                                  23,430
Equipment                           3,000             1,460               950              3,150                                3,570                                  12,130
Service Reservoirs
Civil Works                          -                3,810             5,500                220                               15,315                                  24,845
Equipment                            -                  195               280                420                                  475                                   1,370
Treatment Facilities
Civil Works                            5                 25            15,650                 4040                                                                     15,805
Equipment                             250               175            13,900                370                                  420                                  1515
Miscellaneous Equipment                     300              465                                  970                                1,110                                   2,845
Right-of-Way                                                -                1,220             21,000                                                                       22,920
Other Work (Texcoco)                                                                           3                133,000                               179,000              312,000
Subtotal                                73,000            41,000            93,000            233,000           133,000           0504,ODO            179,0003.          1,246o000
Public Works                                                                                                                                                           53,0oo
Studies                                                                                                                                                                46,000
Technical Contingency                    10,700            6,250            14,350             35,500            20,900             80,000              28,300             196,000            10
Engineering and Adbministration         12,250             6,950            15,400             37,750            22,400             85,150              30,100             210,000            V.-
Total                                   95,950            54,200           122,750            !96,0             176,300            669,150             237,400           1,751,000
2,  1972 Price level.
/  See breakdown Table 4 Anram 1
See breakdown Table 5 Armax 1
Mey 24, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table No. 4
Page 10 of 13 Pages
TEXCOCO WATER
CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIKATEi'
--Mbx$ x 10 ----
Extraction and Transmission of Potable Water
Civil Works                                         433,OOO
Equipment                                           13,500
Sewage Treatment Plant
Civil Works                                        .10,500
Equipment                                           11,000
Irrigaticn System
Civil Works                                         48,500
Equipment                                            6,500
Total                                                        ill.00
1/ 1972 Price level.
May 24, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table No. 5
Page 11 of 13 Pages
TEXCOCO-NON-WATER
CCNSTRUE(TION COST ESTIMATI/'
--------Mex$ x 103-______
Drai.nage and Chamnelizatici
Civil Works                                            89,500
Formation of Lakes
Civil Works                                            11,500
Equipment                                              15,500
Transmissicn Lines and Evaporation Tanks for Saline Water
Civil Works                                             7,500
Land Reclamaticu
Civil Works                                             9,000
Reforestation
Civil Works                                           _46,000
Total                                                           179,000
1/ 1972 Price level.
May 24, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table No. 6
Page 12 of 13 Pages
Investment Program for Water Distribution System
Federal  DLstrict
Item                                        Amount
--------  Million of Pesos-------------------
Total
1972     1973     1974      12a      1         1972-1976
Tanks                -       40       55        15       15          125
Pumping             -        10        -         -        3          13
Pipes              92        90      105        75       60          422
Civil Works        13        20       20        20       15           88
Studies              -       10       10        10        5           35
Miscellaneous        2        5        8        10       10           35
Subtotal          107       175      198      130       108          718
Total
Including                                                               1/
Contingencies     123       201      228       150      124          826k
Total
1973-1976                                                            703V.'
Does not incldde intatest during construction.
May 24, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table No. 7
Page 13 of 13 Pages
Investment Program for Water Distribution Systeur
State of Mexico
Year                                             Million of Pesos
1973                                                     84
1974                                                   3u6
1975                                                    110
1976                                                    117
Total                                                   42 /
1/ Estimates of investment needs for the 4-year program have been
made on a cost-per-capita basis because detailed constraction
programs have not been formulated. Preinvestment studies with
construction costs and a disbursement schedule should be provided
by the Comisi6n Estatal to the Federal Government by December 31,
1973.
Does not include interest during construction.
May 24, 1973






ANNE 2
Page I of 9 pages
MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE NEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
THE TEXGOCO PROJECT - OOSTS AND BENEFITS
The Texcoco Area
1.        Texcoco is a dry and undeveloped wasteland which originated as a
lake of some 15,000 hectares situated to the immediate northeast of Mexico
City. It is relatively close to Mexico City's central parts but is largely
uninhabited due to lack of infrastructure, adverse ground conditions coupled
with unregulated hydrology, and frequent dust storms. The latter affect most
of Mexico City and increase air pollution with a subsequent rise of respiratory
ailments.
The Project
2.        The rexcoco scheme is a multi-purpose project with the following
objectives:
i)  Development of a well field producing l p/sec potable
water. As a result of an ongoing study on the risks
of saline intrusion into the proposed well field area,
the yield rmight be increased up to 4 m3/sec;
(ii) Construction of a sewagq treatment plant with an
initial capacity of 1 m-/sec. The treated sewage
will be mixed with raw water from the eastern rivers
in the lakes to be constructed and then exchanged for
potable water presently used for iti'igation (see iii).
The surplus of waste water will be sold to industrial
users;
(iii) Construction of a sprinkling irrigation system for an
area of 4,000 ha, east of the T*xcoco Lake area, for
which treated sewage from the treatment plant and storm
water will be used;
(iv) Construction of three artificial lakes through pumping
out saline groundwater and letting the soils consolidate,
forming depressions;



ANNEI 2
Page 2 of 9 pages
(v) Extraction of salt frcm the pumped out saline water
through solar distillation. The salt will be sold to
the chemical plant, Sosa-Texcoco;
(vi) Regulation of rivers flowing into the Texcoco area to
better utilize the region's scarce water resources
and reduce flood risks;
(vii) Improvement of the environment through afforestation and
reclamation of about 6,200 ha of desert land;
(viii) Urbanization of a 500 ha area; and
(ix) Possibly extend Mexico City's immediately adjacent
airport into the Texcoco area.
The Project Benefits and Costs
3.        The benefits and costs of the Texcoco Project fall into three
categories:
(i) the water supply component;
(ii) the irrigation component (including the sewage treatment
plant);
(iii)  the rest of the Project referred to as Texcoco-Nn-Water
(land reclamation, flood control, afforestation, urbanization
and salt production and sale).
-.        The irrigation scheme cannot be undertaken unless waste water is
supplied through the sewage treatment scheme. For political reasons, the
water supply scheme is unlikely to be undertaken unless farmers are compensated
for the loss of the groundwater they are presently using for irrigation by
getting waste water through the sewage treatent scheme. With this exception,
the three components of the Texcoco Project can be separated physically as
wall as economically and can be undertaken independently of each other. The
Rate of Return calculations for the entire bulk water project (see Amnex 5)
include in addition to the water supply the costs of the irrigation scheme
and the sewage treatment plant, assuming that these costs are necessary in
order to extract the potable water. Separate cost-benefit calculaticns are
presented for:
A. The Irrigation Component;
B. The Irrigation Component, Assuming that the Waste Water
has an Alternative Use; and
C. The Texcoco Non-Water Component.



AiNEX 2
P'age 3of 9 pages
The Water Supply Component
5.        The water supply scheme alone would produce water at an incremental unit
cost comparable to the most economical of the bulk water sub-schemes, Pozos Sur.
If, for political reasons the water extraction scheme can only be built in
connection with the irrigation and sewage treatment schemes, the unit cost
of producing water with the three schemes combined places the Project in
its present position inithe Project sequence. Advancement would not be
possible, even if the Project were more economical, because of the long
gestation period of the irrigation and sewage treatment schemes.  (Saline
water can be pumped only at, the rate salt is utilised, thus the lakes
necessary for irrigation water storage will be constructed very slowly).
The Irrigation Component
6.        Comments to the cost benefit table (see Table 1)
(i) Capital cost - refers to the capital costs (given by the
consulting firm COMEC) of the investments in irrigation
and sewage treatment with allowance for 15% contingencies
and 13% engineering and administration.
(ii)  Operating cost - refers to the operating costs (from CCMEC)
of the irrigation and sewage treatment schemes.
(iii) The opportunity cost of the land - has been calculated
using a low estimate of urban land values for the Texcoco
area and a 10% alternative cost of capital. The benefits
from the land in dry farming use have been deducted.
The opportunity cost arises because it is assumed that
without irrigation, the land will be urbanized on the
average 5 years earlier than with irrigation.
(iv) Net benefits in agriculture - the estimates of secandary
benefits made by the consultants have been excluded when
calculating incremental benefits from irrigation. The
consultants' figures correspond more or less to yield
figures for the area and are therefore believed to
grossly overstate the net benefits.
(v) Sales of industrial water - starting in 1981 irrigated
land will be converted into urban use, whereby irrigation
water will be freed for industrial use at a rate of about
2 million m3 a year. The revenues from sales of surplus
waste water have not been included as the sales could take
place without the investment in the irrigation component.
The stream of net benefits generated by the combined sewage treatment and
irrigation schemes does not make the Project economically justifiable
especially if it is considered that the net benefits in agriculture are
likely to be overstated (see Point iv).



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9 pages
The Irrigation Component (with alternative use for waste water)
7.        Comments to the cost benefit table (see Table 2)s
(i)  Capital cost - refers to the investments in irrigatimn
with allowance for 15% contingencies and 13% engineering
and administration.
(ii) Opportunity cost of treated sewage - the cost has been
estimated to beMbx$0.401/m-3, the price which will be
charged to industrial consumers supplied with the surplus
waste water.
(iii) The opportunity cost of land - (see above irrigation
component, point iiLP.
(iv) Current cost - of the irrigation scheme are given by
COMEC.
iv) Net Benefits in agriculture - (see above irrigation
component, point v).
The incremental cost-benefit analysis of the irrigation component, based on
the assumption that waste water has an alternative use, generates a stream
of negative net benefits. However, the calculations are sensitive to changes
in the opportunity cost of waste water. It could not be taken for granted
that an additional demand of 1.40 m3/sec of waste water (corresponding to
the volume that will be used for irrigation) for industrial use at a price
of Mex$0.40/m3 will exist.
8.        In view of the probably low or negative benefits that could be
derived from the sewage treaetent-irrigatimn schemes, the irrigation scheme
should be postponed until the industrial reuse study and a study of the
urbanization prospects of the Texcoco area are completed. The water supply
scheme should not be permitted to be delayed because of the long gestation
period of the irrigation scheme, even if this would imply a temporary
shortage of irrigation water for the farmers.  In the event that the above-
mentioned studies show that the investheat in irrigation should be undertaken,
it is recoumended that farmers pay for the irrigation water in order to make
the combined irrigatiom-sewage treatment schemes financially viable and
avoid the necessity to include their costs into the bulk water rate base.
9.        Constraction of a sewage treatment plant alone is likely to be
justified (providing that industrial demand for treated sewage is forthcming)
but its desiga and location should be geared towards industrial consuption
rather than irrigation and would therefore fall outside the scope of the
present Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9 pages
10.       If for political reasons the water supply scheme could not be
undertaken unless the sewage treatment and irrigation schemes are built,
it is recommended in view of the low unit cost of water produced, that
the combined Project (water supply/sewage treatment and irrigation) be
undertaken, and that the farmers will be charged for the irrigation water
they use.
The Non-Water Component
11.       An attempt has been made by the Project consultants (COMEC) to
identify and quantify costs and benefits of the Texcoco Project. The
following cost benefit table is based on their estimates.
Comments on the cost benefit table (see Table 3).
Benefit from Salt Sales
12.       A total quantity of MmO80 million is estimated to be sold and the
sales which will take place at a price of sx$10/ton will be spread over
the construction period of the Texcoco Project and cease thereafter.
Industrial Water Sales
13.       Storm water will be stored and settled in the lakes constructed
through the Project. CCHEC estimates that this water could be sold to
industrial users with a benefit of MIx$0.40/m3.
Health Benefits
14.       The dust storms are now blamed for much of the respiratory disease
incidence in Mexico City. Their partial elimination is thought to result
in lower medical treatment bills, and in lower absenteeism and higher
productivity of the economically active population. The CCHEC consultants
have made some sweeping assumptions and come up with numbers for the health
benefits. Their methodology and actual evaluation can be criticized in many
ways. Health benefits have been separated by the consultants into saved
medical treatment costs and increased labor productivity. Apart from double-
counting by CCMCC, it is hard to see how the detrimental health effects from
dust storm pollution can be separated from pollution from cars and industries.
Dist storms are generated in other parts of the Mexico City valley as well.
An illustrative value for the health benefits of someMex$45 million/year has
been chosen for the rate of return calculation compared to CEC' a estimates
ranging fromnbm$80 to 210 million per year.
Aviation Benefits
15.       Mexico City's international airport is adjacent to the Texcoco area.
At times the dust storms completely close down all air traffice for some hours.



ANNEI 2
Page 6 of 9 pages
COMEC's estimate of the airlines' lost income appears high and has been
asjusted downward. In the rate of return calculations, a token benefit of
Awx$5 million/year starting in the late 1980's has been included to account
for the airline's loss of goodwill and income.
Rise in Land Values
16.       In the rate of return calculations a two to tenfold increase in
land values has been assumed to occur gradually over 30 years. The rise in
land value should reflect all the benefits which accrue to the Texcoco Lake
area and adjacent areas, such as the City of Netzahualcoyotl and zones IV
and V. The latter two are low income settlements to the east of the lake
area. The benefits are mainly of an environmental character.
17.       The 6,200 hectares of woodlands and pasture that will result from
the Project, are thought to diminish the dust storm frequency and improve
the envirmnment in the whole Mexico City area. Opening up parts of Texcoco
for habitation would also mean transport and time savings, as compared to
presently available areas for urbanization. Similarly the reduced risk of
flooding, thanks to the flood control works, would also be reflected in
increased land value.
18.       The construction of lakes and the afforestation program entails
recreationary and scenic benefits which will to some extent accrue to the
whole populaticn of the metropolitan area, but will partly be reflected in
the rise of the land values of the area.
19.       The increase in land values within the lake area, which is a federal
property, can be captured directly through the sales of land and will accrue
to the Federal Government. As of today it is undetermined whether the Comision
will get the benefits from land sales, which in any case will not occur before
1977. Benefiting landowners in neighboring areas are mainly small or medium-
sized farmers, and low income urban dwellers. Land speculation has started in
the areas surrounding Lake Texcoco as a result of the plans to develop the
area. The extent and implications of the speculation cannot be determined.
20.       Capital Costs - are COMEC estimates adjusted for 15% contingencies
and 13% engineering and admtnistration. The total cost of the Project has
been included although the Bank would only finance investments through 1976.
210       Current Costs - are GOMEC estimates.  Not included among the benefits
because of the difficulties to establish an appropriate shadow wage rate, are
employment benefits. The non-water component of the Texcoco scheme could be
expected to be considerably more labor intensive than the bulk water project.
COMEC estimates that as much as 30% of the total Texcoco project cost is made
up of wage payments but has no estimate of the share of unskilled labor.
22.       The Texcoco non-water component generates a return on investment
of 16% with the assumptions stated above. The most crucial assumption is
the rise in land values which, if changed sigiificantly, produces substantial
alterations in the economic rate of return. The cost benefit table should
therefore be viewed as an illustration of the various benefits associated with
the Project and not as a precise indication of its rate of return. However,
it is our belief that the estimate of the benefits are generally on the
conservative side.



COSTS AiD PENEFITS
TEXCOCO, IRRIGATION COMPOI'IENT
(Mex$103 at 1971 prices)
Costs                                                          Benefits
Capital   Operation Cost                    Opportunity      Total    Net Benefits in   Sale of Industrial
Cost     Sewage Treatment - Irrmgation    Cost of Land    Costs       Agriculture           Water           Net Benefits
1973       15,500                                                       15,500                                            (15,500)
1974       33,500                                                       33,500                                            (33,500)
1975       33,500                                                        33,500                                           (33,500)
1976       16,000     1,400              1,100              700           3,200        8,000                               11,200
1977                   2,d50             2,130            1,400           6,400       16,000                                9,600
1978                  2,850              2,150            2,100           7,100       16,000                                8,900
1979                   2,850             2,150            2,o00           7,800       16,000                                8,200
1980                   2,850             2,150            3,500           (Hi500      16,OC                                7,500
1981 and               2,850 _/          2,050 2/         3,500           8,400       15,200 L/             8 0             7,650 -
onwards
G z: N
00
1' Constant until year 2000.
D/ Declining by about 100 a year to 0 in year 2000.
3/ Constant until year 1966, declining to 0 in year 2000.
4/ Declining by 800 a year to 0 in Year 2000.
5/ Increasing by 850 a year to 17,000 in year 2000.
6/ Increasing by about 150 a year to 1996; thereafter increasing by
850 a year to year 2000.
May 2h, 1973                                                                  Rate of retu1n = 7%



COSTS AID BEH3FITS
TECOCO.  MIRRGATION CCVElNT (mint alternative use for waste water)
(Me4dp03 at 1971 prices)
Costs                                                              Benefits
Capital  fVportniity Cost   )pport inity       Current                  Ret Benefits
Cost    of Treated Sewage   Cost of land       costs    Total Costs    in Agriculture    Net Benefits
1973    11,000                     -                       -        11,000                           (11,00S)
1974     24,500           -                                         24,500                           (2h,5OC)
1975    2L,5C0           8,500              -              -        33,000                           (33,0C0)
1976     1,100          12,75C             700           1,100      15,650           8,000            (7,650)
1977                    17,000           1,400           2,150      20,550          16,000            (4,550)
1978                    17,000           2,100           2,150      21,250          16,000            (5,250)
1979                    17,000           2,800           2,150      21,95C          16,000            (5,950)
1/              2/              3/                          4/5/
1980                    17,000           3,500           2,150      22,650          16,000            (6,650)
and onwards
V Declining by 850 a year to 0 in year 2000.
2/ Constant until year 1996; declining to 0 in year 2000.                                                                          OD
3/ Declining by about 100 a year to 0 in year 2000.                                                                                so
4/ Declining by 800 a year to 0 in year 2000.                                                                                      I
5/ Negative, decreasing by 150 a year to year 1996; thereafter, decreasing by                                                      c
850 a year to 0 in year 2000.
Rate of Return = Negative
May 24, 1973



Costs and Benefits
The Texcoco Non-Water Component
Mex$ Million at 1971 Prices
Benefits
Industrial      Saved Medical    Increased Labor    Aviation         Rise in           Total             Costs                  Total          Net
Year      Salt Sales      Water Sales       Treatment         Productivity        Savings      Land Values      Benefits     Capital      Operating       Costs         Benefits
1971                                                                                                                               8                           8             (8)
1972             4                                                                                                   4            69                          69            (65)
1973              7                                                                                                  7            88                          88            (81)-
1974             8                                                                                                   8            67             2            67            (59)
1975              8                               1                   2                1            30              42            42             2            42              0
1976              5                               2                   4                1            30              42            19             2            21.            21
1977              6             3                 3                   6                1            30              49            32             4            36             16
1978             5              6                 4                   8                2            30              5e            18             4            22             36
1979              6             6                 5                   10               2            30              59            13             4            17             42
1980              9             6                 6                  12                2            30              65            19             4            23             42
1981              9             6                 7                  14                3            30              68            18             4            22             47
1982             4              6                 8                  16                3            30              67            17             4            21             46
1983              4             6                 9                  18                3            30              70            16             4            20             52
1984              3             8                10                   20               4            30              75            11             4            15             60
1985              0             8                11                  22                4            30              75            10             5            15             62
1986              0            10                12                   24               4            30              80             0             5            5              75
1987              0            10                13                   26                5           30              84            .0             5            5              79
1988             0             10                14                  28                5            30              87             0             5            5              82
1989             0             10                15                   30                5           30              90             0             5            5              85
1990 onwards     0             10                16                   30                5           30              91             0             5            5              86
1'
Rate of Return = 16%
1/  Excluding potable water, irrigation and sewage treatment                                                                                                                           C 
May 24, 1973                                                                                                                                                                          I






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
MEXICO
COMISION DE AaUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT SEQUENCING
Demand Forecasts
The demand projections prepared by the consultants are of a crude
nature based on fairly elaborate forecasts of total populationV but rough
assumptions about the per capita allotment of water, without any attempt to
breakdown the consumption by consumer category. The consultants did not
consider price elasticity of demand for water nor have they made any attenpt
to determine the effect on demand of measures which will be taken to reduce
unaccounted-for water, such as abolishing billing exemptions. As a result,
the demand projections have a considerable margin of error and are believed
to overstate the demand, especially towards the end of the 1970s, mainly
because of the expected effects of the tariff increase and the program for
reducing unaccounted-for water which have to be implemented as a condition
of the Bank loan. However, due to the inherent flexibility of the investment
program (sub-projects can be postponed), more refined demand projections are not
considered necessary at this time, provided that the investment program is __
continuously reviewed and adjusted for deviations from the projected demand.
The Project is desigaed to provide enough storage capacity to meet
the daily peaks. There is also a three-month peak (7% above the average
months' demand) which occurs during the dry season. on particular days during
this peak-period demand might be as much as 20% over the average level. The
programming of the Project has not been made so as to meet this peak demand,
nor have the geographic variations in the peak demand been considered. The
substantially increased cost of an investment program which
would meet the monthly peak demand is not justified because the peak demand
could be met by temporarily overexploiting some well fields.
The demand projections have not considered the possibility of reuse
of water for industrial purposes. According to a study by the Office of the
President the present potential for reuse is 12 cubic meters per second in
the metropolitan area. In another study, five industrial areas in the State
of Mexico with a present demand of about 2 cubic meters per second have been
identified and construction of sewage treatment plants is already underway.
Zoning regulations have been enacted with attempt to group industries into
1/ A study by El Colegio de Mexico.



ANNE= 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
industrial parks; the concentration of industries would tend to make
reuse a more econmaical alternative. The cost of treatment and
distribution of industrial water has been estimated to be between 60 and
70 centavos per m3 which makes reuse a potential alternative to most of
the subprojects of the Project, and certainly to all the subprojecto of
the post-project and the long-range program. The major factor holding
back the demand for treated sewage is the pricing policy for water which
implies that industries can buy potable water at a price coasiderably
below the cost of treating sewage. This is especially true in the State
of Mexico where water from private wells is not paid for.
The amount of raw sewage available for treatment and industrial
use might be limited because farmers use raw sewage for irrigation purposes.
However, the incremental flow is believed to be sufficient to satisfy the
demand for industrial water. It is important that the right of the Comision
to raw sewage be established in agreements between the Comision and Federal
District and the State of Mexico. Preferably, the Comision should be
responsible for the production and sale of industrial water (treated sewage).
Treatment capacity is not expected to be installed to an extent that reuse
of water could significantly affect Project sequencing in the 1973-76 period,
but will have to be considered thereafter.
Project Sequencing
The major factor affecting the proposed timing, sequencing and
design of the subprojects is the amount of groundwater which could be mined.
The availability of additional groundwater would affect mainly the subprojects
scheduled for canstruction at the end of this Project and during the subsequent
post-project period. An ongoing groundwater study will establish the location
and quantities of groundwater which could be economically mined and the
recomnendations should result in revisions in the Project progranuing, if
necessary. A preliminary groundwater study of the northern region of the
valley of Mexico indicates that as far as the subprojects to be entered into
operation in the 1973-80 period are concerned, the potential for mining in
addition to what has already been proposed in mainly in connection with the
Apan Project. The mining potential should be considered when designing the
Tizayuca-Apan transmission line and the proposed project sequencing and
timing in the period after 1976 is likely to be affected as a result of
mining. By exploiting the 5.5 km3 of dead storage which could be economically
mined according to the preliminary groundwater study, the considerably more
expensive M. Aleman I and the Long-Range program schemes, could be postponed
for at least 5 years. The 5.5 km3 of economically exploitable dead storage
is believed to be a conservative estimate.



MEXICO
COMIs16N DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICC
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER DEMANDS MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN AREA
average Deoa.d YulitIled .           op C'aisiSn bver
P00oolation (Millions)                     Per Capita Dlemod (Icd)2i                             Total. Demad (o3aJ/ne)                                 One Year Period (al/sec)
Yeer             Federal listrict        State of hMeico        Total        Federal Dijtrict        State of Mexico        Fdeal District          State of Mexico        Total        Por District         For State        Total
January, 1973              8.33                    2.45             10.78              360                   2P0                      34.7                    7.9               4Z.6              -                  -
19T4              8.80                    2.60             11.40              360                    300                     36.7                    9.0                45.7            4.4                 _             4.4
1975              9.26                    2.79             12.05              360                    310                     38.6                   10.0                48.6            6.6                o.6            7.2
1976              9.70                    3.01             12.71              360                    325                     40.4                   11.3                51.7            8.3                2.0           10.3
1977             10.13                    3.25             13.38              360                    340                     42.2                   12.8                55.0           10.0                3.2           13.2
1978             10.54                    3.53             14.07              360                    350                     43.9                   14.3                58.2           11.6                4.6           16.2
1979             10.93                    3.84             14.77              360                    355                     45.5                   15.8               61.3            13.3                6.1           19.2   '
1980             11.29                    4.19             15.48              360                    360                     47.0                   1?.5                64.5           14.5                7.7           22. 
1981             11.63                    4.56             16.19              360                    360                     48.5                   19.0                6?.5           16.0                9.0           25.0  'd
litera per capita per day
Mlay 26, 1973






ANNEX 4
MECICO
CCMISION DE- AGUAS DEL VALE DE  EXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CUMULATIVE QUARTERLY INVESENT AND IBRD LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiacal Year          Gumulative Total Investments         From IBRD Loan
and Quarter                  at End of Quarter!/           at HEd of Quarter/
Mex$       OR       US$                  US
(million)         (thousand)           Ithousand)
1972-1973
September 30, 1972          130                 10,P400
December 31, 1972           260                 20,800
March 31, 1973              352                 28,160                  -
June 30, 1973               445                 35,600                 1,720
1973-1974
September 30, 1973          537                 42,960                 7,440
December 31, 1973           630.                50.,400               14,160
March 31, 1974              785                 62,800                20,240
June 30, 1974               940                 75,200                26,320
1974-1975
September 30, 1974        1,095                 87,600                32,400
December 31, 1974         1,251                100,080                38,480
March 31, 1975            1,410                112,800                44,800
June 30, 1975             1,569                125,520                51,200
1975-1976
September 30, 1975        1,728                138,240                57,250
December 31, 1975         1,888                151,0o40               63,920
March 31, 1976            2,026                162,080                70,400
June 30, 1976             2,164                173,120                76,960
1976-1977
September 30, 1976        2,302                184,160                83,,440
December 31, 1976         2,,441               195,280                90,000
1/ Include interest during construction on IB-RD and local loans
1/  Include interest during construction on IBRD loan.
May 24, 1973






ANNE 5
Page 1 of 6 pages
CONISION IS AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEICO
MEICO CITr WATER SUPPLI PRJBECT
. RETURN ON INVESTMENT
The InveatmAt to be Evaluated
1.        Tle Project woud produce as bulk water 100% of the incremetal
water demand, or about 17% of the total demand, of the Mexico City
Metropolitan area for the period 1974 through 1977.  DNria  that period
84% of the ProJect's production would be sold to the Fed.ral District &ad
16% to tke State of Mazco.
2.        Although the Project is defined to include oly the investments
undertaken in 1973 through 1976, for the purpose of economic ¢valuatioa tke
water source investments of 1972 are included on the cost sid because they
are essential to the Project.
3.        The Codisiom will sel bulk water to the Federal District and the
State of Yexico at a price set to make the Couisiou finaaci4UI Viable.  The
retail water price is the Federal District ad the State of'Neo hears so
direct relationship to the bulk water price siace the retailers have their
owa water source facilities whick pr*duce water at a lower cost than tkoos
Of the Comisi6a, and because the water retailers may (aud do) choose to
dbsidise the retail water price with funds from non-water sowrces.  The
bulk water price cannot be saed for purposes of econoeic evaluation as it
provides no indication of the ultimate cosuweral willi4pmgse to pay.
4.        It is not possdble to divide the p rice tke consmor is Xlliagn to
pay into a distribution component, and a bulk water component i.e., the Bank-
financed project. Water only has a value to the consumer if it is produced and
distributed to him; he would not be willing to pay for one of these services
without the other. The investments and operating costs in the Federal District
and the State of Mexico which are necessary to distribute the incremental water
volume resulting from the bulk water Project, have therefore been included in
all cost-benefit calculations.
5.        Details of the costs and benefits of the Project, are given in
Table 1. Input values are in constant 1972 prices. Since the Project is
exempt from taxes and import duties, there is no need to adjust for transfer
payments.



ANEX 5
Page 2 of 6 pages
6.        The 1bxican econay is relatively free of comtrols, and market prices
can, in most cases, be taken as a good approximation of the economic cost of
the goods and services (local and isported) consued for the consttmetion and
operation of the Project. Bmrever, an estimated 8% of the investment cost is
for unskilled labor; in view of the high unemploymet level ia the 1.tropolitan
area a shadow wage rate could be applied theoretically  ikich would result im
a slightly higher internal fimancial rate of return.   This was not dome as
there is considerable controversy on what methodology to use when shadow
pricing and required data for proper shadow pricing were not readily available.
Rate of Return and Sensitivity
7.        The retail water price gives little guidance to the oonsaer
willinWpess to pay for water because of the policy of pricing water far below
its cost. Therefore, three alternative ways of measuring project benefita
have been tested. According to the method used, the rate of return of the
project.varies between 4 and 9%.
8.        Al-trnative 1:  Using the average revenues collected under 1973
tariff levels in the Federal District as an estimate of observed consumer
*illingpess to pay (the benefit measure) results in a low internal
financial rate of return of about 4% (for a discussion of the pricing policy
see Annex 13).  The calculated return is no indication that the Project is
uneconomical. Referring to Figure 1, the calculated rate of return is based
solely on the benefits represented by the rectangle ABCD, whereas the true
benefits (including consumer surplus) are ABCE. The true rate of return of
the Project could only be calculated if the incremental benefits ABCE were
compared to the incrermental ¢ostB of the Project BOCF. As the Asmand for
water :Ln the price ranges under consideration is fairly inelastic, the
consumer surplus ADE would be large but undetermined becau8s little is known
about the demand-price relations4iip for water in Mexico City.
price in
Pesos/m3          \h.     
JGI ~ 2rI 
Quantity in m3
Figure I



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6 pages
9.        Alternative 2:  As water prices in Mexico give little indication
of consumer willingness to pay for water, the price that consumers are
willing to pay in the city of Sao Paulo has been used to estimate water
benefits in Mexico City. Sao Paulo was selected because (a) reliable
infonmation is available, (b) water tariffs reflect the cost of producing
water (c) climatic caaditions (and thus probable water consumption patterns)
are similar to Mexico City.
10.       Because per capita income is lower in Sao Paulo than in Mexico
City, the Sao Paulo tariff would tend to understate the willingness to pay
in Mexico City.
11.       The water consumption per capita in Sao Paulo is only z/3 of the
consumption in Mexico City and the Sao Paulo tariff has therefore only been
applied to 2/3 of the volume sold in Mexico City. The rest has been valued
at the 1973 Mexico City tariff. The rate of return based on this evaluation
of project beaefits is 8%6.
12.       Alternative 3:  Lacking information about the response of consumers
to changes in-the price of water (i.e., the slope of demand curve) the inter-
nal rate of return has been tested for two assumptions about price elas-
ticity: -0.03 and -0.11. These two assumptions would imply that
as a response to the 100* increase in water revenues in 1973, demand would
be reduced by about 1 m3/sec and 3 m3/sec respectively.  This would represent
about 7 and 20% of the total volume produced by the project in 1977
based on the projected demand at 1972 prices.
13.       This test was done as a substitute for using the subsidized retail
water price as the only measure of consumer benefits, in order to arrive at
a more accurate estimate of the benefits generated by the project. As the
area under the demand curve measures the benefits accruing to the consumers,
each assumption about the position and slope of the demand curve corresponds
to a value of the water benefits to be derived from the Project. The starting
point for this analysis employs the demand statistics at the 1972 tariff
level projected through 1977. There are then used, together with the various
assumptions concerning elasticity given in paragraph 12, to arrive at a
series of linear demand functions. The project is then defined as properly
timed investments necessary to supply the quantities demanded at the prevailing
price in the 1973-1977 period in accordance with the derived demand curves.
14.       The method for calculating annual water benefits was as follows:
On the basis of existing infoxmation about the marginal cost structure of
the Project, the "optimum" project, producing in each year a volume equal
to the demand when price is equal to the marginal cost (Q77 in Figure I) has
been determined for each assumption about demand elasticity. The volume
produced by the "optimum" project has been valued at the marginal cost



ANNEX 
Page 4 of 6 pages
whereas the value of the "excess" volume (Q'77 - Q77) has been estimated by
using the average of marginal cost plus the average revenues collected
HI + AB.
2
15.       Project costs are assumed to be flexible and adjusted in response
to changes in demand.  With a high elasticity assumption of -0.11 the effect
on demand of the increase in average revenues to be implemented in 1973 will
be significant and has been taken into account by reducing the planned output
of the Project in 1977 (15.5 m3/sec) by 3 r3/sec.  The Project costs were
adjusted accordingly except for the expenditures in 1972 and 1973 as the
effect on demand would not be felt before 1973. For the -0.03 elasticity
assumption the effect of the 1973 increase in revehues will be small (about
1 m3/sec) and the Project costs would remain unchanged.
16.       The outcome of the sensitivity analysis shows that the works which
would be undertaken at price elasticities of -0.11 and -0.03 would give a
rate of return of about 9%. The "optimum" project would in both cases have
a rate of return of 12%.
17.       The rate of return is not strongly affected by varying the assump-
tions about price elasticity in the relatively inelastic range, but the
rate of return decreases with higher elasticity. The factors behind the
decrease in the rate of return are:
- With higher elasticity a larger share of the water
produced by the Project will have a lower value to
the consumer than the marginal cost of producing it.
- The rigidity of the 1972 and 1973 investments affects
the rate of return negatively as the need to adjust
the Project in response to price changes increases.
18.       In conclusion it can be said that with a 100% increase in
average revenues collected in 1973, the Project shows an acceptable rate
of return for very low price elasticities (over the relevant interval). For
all realistic assumptions about elasticity the 4% rate of return calculated on
the basis of the 1973 retail water tariff would be a minimum. It should be
pointed out that the consumer surplus (the EHG area in Figure I) has not been
included as a benefit when calculating the rate of return, and that the



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6 pages
outcome of the calculations would therefore be comparable to the outcome of
rate of return calculations for other types of Bank projects where the
retail price level more closely reflects the cost of providing the service.
Benefits and Costs not Quantified in the Rate
of Return Calculations
19.       The rate of return calculation does not take into account benefits
such as:
Health and Social Benefits - These benefits are associated with the
investments in distribution systems for which the bulk water project is a
prerequisite. Especial3ly in the State of Mexico important health and social
benefits will be reaped as a result of the expansion of water service to low-
income groups.
Employment Benefits (see paragraph 6) - It is estimated that tle
Project will provide about 5,000 man years of employment for unskilled worKers
during the 1973-1976 period.
Cost of Public Funds - Subsidizing water operations means diverting
public funds which might be badly needed for other purposes because of existing
constraints on the amount of money that can be raised through such means as
tJhe tax system. This cost could be worked into the rate of return calculations
by shadow-pricing public funds, but lacking relevant information about the
relative scarcity of such funds a shadow price can not be established.



Internal Financial Rate of Return
Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits of Bulk Water and Distribution Project
Mex$ Million in 1972 Prices
______________________________________Costs_-___---------------------                  ------Benefits-----
Capital Cost
Distribution   Distribution        Operational Cost
g  Federal    State of                                       Total    V Water'       Net
Year      Bulk Water       District         Mexico        Bulk Water   Distribution       Costs   Benefits   Benefits
1972          179              123                                                          302                   (302)
1973          391              191              83                                          665                   (665)
1974          280              207             113              27            8             635       69          (566)
1975          431              130             105              54           13             737      125         (608)
1976          349              102             110              76           18             655      194          (461)
1977                                                            99           23             122      260          138
1978                                                                                        122     270           148
1979                                                                                        122      281          159
1980 onwards                                                                                122      291          169
Internal Rate of Return =4%
J The project cost includes all bulk water investments, including Texcoco irrigati n and sewage treatment,
undertaken between physical contingencies 15%, engineering and administration 13%, and public works 5O/e
(1972 and 1976).
The cost of the Tepeji sub-project and the cost of studies not financed by the Bank are excluded.                          oN
Costs and benefits of the Texcoco non-water investments are excluded.                                                       oZ
LI Calculated on the basis of the distribution cost/m3 in the Federal District.
3  The revenue efflciency  index       (the relation between the average revenues collected per m3 produced and
the average tariff) is assumed to increase from 0.50 in 1974 to 0.70 in 1980.
May 24, 1973



)EICO                                           ANN  6
COMISION DE AWAS DEL VALLE DI MEXICO
ASSETS                             MNECO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJ-ECTD BLA14CE-SWEETS STATEMENTS
FIXED ASSETS           1972     1973    1974      1975     1976    1977      1978    1979     1980    1981
GROSS                      0      562    1156    1298    2441    2827    3771    4088    6287    8443
LESS:DEPRECIATION          0        0      17       52       91      164     249      362      484      672
NET                        °      562    1139    1246    2350    2663    3522    3726    5803    7771
WORK IN PROGRESS         260       68      95 059             0      533     232    1522       984        0
SUBTOTAL                 2        630    1234    1836    2350    3196    4254        5248    6787    7771
CURRENT ASSETS
__________________
INVENTORIES                0        0       3        9       1l       17       21      34       41       62
ACCNTS.RECEIVABLE          0        5      28       45       65      111      137     161      186      210
CASH                      25      210     215      236      254      313      429     368      453      646
SUBTOTAL                  25      210     246      290      330      441      587     563      680      918
TOTAL ASSETS             285      840    1        2126    2680    3637    484        51       747    8689
EQUITY+LIABILITIES
EQUITY
CAPITAL                  233      483     533      533      533      533      533      533     533      533
ACCUMULATED SURP.          0        7      132     312      532      890    1363    1830    2423    3045
CONTRIBUTION              52       52       52      52       52                          2       52      52
SUBTOTAL                 285      5142    717      97    1117    1475    1948        2415    3008    3630
DEBT
LONGTERM DEBT GROS         0      253     689    1156    1503    2045    2757    3257    4259    4930
LESS:CURRENT MATUR         0        0        0      73      108      120      29       20-9     2        86
LONG-TERM DEBT-NET         0      253     6         1083    1395    1925    2  0    302 7    4344
CURRENT LIABILIT.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE           0       45       74      73       60      117      136      139      200     129
CURRENT MATURITIES         0        0        0      73      108      120      297      209     232      586
SUBTOTAL                   0    457        146              T        237      433   4            32     715
TOT. EQUI TY+ LIABI L      3     F4      T80    2126    2bL)   3b            4b41    5U8i     74b-    8689
DEBT AS% OF LONG-
TERM CAPITALIZTION 2       0       32       49      55       56       57       56       56       57       54
CURRENT RATIO ?         0.00    4.67    3.32    1.99    1.96    1.86    1.36    1.62    1.57    1.28
RECVBLS/REVENUE %          0        0       17      17       17       17       17       17      17       17
FIXED ASSETS GRWTH %   0.OO  142.31   95.87   48.78   28.00   36.oo   33.10   23.37   29.33   14.50
2  Long term debt divided by total capitalization.
2/ Current assets divided by current liabilities.
May 214, 1973






mEXICo                                                 ANNEX 7
CCQ4IION DE AGUE DEL VALIE DE 1EXICO
MEXICO CITY WATNI SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTED INCOME STATEWTS
REPORT PREPARED DEC. 1, 1972
1972     1973     1974      1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980     1981
INCOME STATEMENT
VOLUME PRODUCED (z3ml1  n)0            0      145       240      340       438      539       637      735       833
VOLUME SOLD (i3 million)    0          0      138      227       3214      4116     512       605      698       791
UNACCTED FOR H20  (,')   100         100        5         5         5        5         5        5         5        5
WATER PRICE/VOLUME*eX40.00         0.00      1.20     1.20      1.20      1.60     1.60      1.60     1.60      1.60
OPERATING REVENUES
WATER BILLINGS               0         0      166       272      389       666      81        968    1117       1266
O          T    166       272      389       666        1               1117   -1266
OPERATING EXPENSE
_________________
LABOR                        0         0        8        17       23        29       36        44       49        58
CHEMICALS                    0         0        1         7       10        12       14        27       37        58
POWER                        0         0       14        21       35        47       65        81       99       119
MATERIALS                    0         0         4       10       13        22       28        40        45       66
ADMINIST-GENERAL             0         0        1         2         3        3         4        4         4         5
OTHER                        0         0        2                  7         9       12        16       19        24
0        0                            1Q6 ~ 9  122     1-9      212       25       33
INCOME BEF.DEPREC            0         0      136       210      28       544       6                  86        936
DEPRECIATIONJ/               0         0       17        35       39        73       85       113      122       188
OPERATING INCOME             0         0      119       175      259       471      575   61 3         7112      74
OTHER INCOME--NET            0         7        6                   4 4      3         2        1         0        0
NET INCOME BEF.INT           0         7      125       1780     26        174      577       674      742       748
INTEREST NOT CAPIT           0         0        0         0       43      116       104       177      149       126
NET INCOME                   0         7      125       180      220       358      47 3               593         2
OPERATING RATIO %
(BEFORE DEPREC.) 2.    0.00        0.00    18.07    22.79    23.39    18.32    19.41    21.90    22.65    26.07
OPERATING RATIO %
(AFTER DEPREC.)3/         0.00     0.00    28.31    35.66    33.42    29.28    29.79    33.57    33.57    40.92
RATE BASE 14/                0        0       398       507     973      2064      2366    3254      3447       5553
RETURN ON
RATE BASE % 5/               O         0       31        20       28       23        24       20        22        14
CASH FLOW RETURN 6/          0         0       24        18       23       22        23       20        21        15
DEPRECIATION AS %
OF AVE.GROSS ASSET        0.00     0.00      1.98     2.85      2.09      2.77     2.58      2.88     2.35      2.55
LABOR EXPENSE/M3 S 0.00000 0.00000 0.05797 0.07489 0.07099 0.06971 0.07031 0.07273 0.07020 0.07332
1/  Calculated on total assets including the Texcoco non-water works.
2/  Total operating expenses divided by total Revenues.
3/  Total operating expenses (including depreciation) divided by total Revenues.
17/ Works in operation at end of previous year. Do riot include Texcoco non-water works.
/  See Annex 9.
/  Operating Income before depreciation divided by gross fixed assets in operation.
May 24, 1973



MEXICO
CORI-SION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO                                    EX 8
MXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTED CASH-FLOW STATEMENTS
REPORT PREPARED DEC. 1, 1972
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979             1980    1981
SOURCES
INTERNAL CASH GEN.
NET INCOME BEF.INT          0        7      125      180      263       474      577      644      742      748
DEPRECIATION                0                1                                    8       113      122      188
SUBTOTAL                    0        7142            215      302       547      66       757               936
CONTRIBUTIONS
TO EQUITY (1)              52        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0
SUBTOTAL                   52        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0
BORROWI NGS
IBRD 1                      0      177      304      318      326         0        0        0        0        0
FOREIGN LOANS               0        0        0        0         0     359       443      474      701      511
LOCAL LOANS                 0       76      1         4        94      291        89      323      510      392
SUBTOTAL                    0      253      436      467       420      650      932      797     1211      903
OTHER SOURCES
CHG.IN CUR.LIAB.            0       45       29       -1      -13        57       19        3       61      -71
CHANGE IN CAPITAL         233      250       S0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0
SUBT07AL                  235      295       79       -1      -13        57       19        3       61      -71
TOTAL SOUPCES             25       555               68       709    1254       1513    1557    2136       1768
CO"iS  UC ION
PROuECC                   260      360      582      554      444       879     1019     1016     1482      c71
INTEREST CAP1TALIZ          0       10                83      109        40      124       91      179      301
5UBTOTAL                  260      370      621      637      553       919     1143    1107      1661    1172
DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                0        0        0         0       73      108      120      297      209       232
INTEREST NOT CAP.           0        0        0        0       43       116      104      177      149      126
SUBTOTAL                    0        0        00     116                224      224      474      358       35
OTHER APPLICATIONS
CHANGE IN CASH             25      185         5       21       18       59      116      -61        85      193
CHG.IN OTH.CUR.ASS          0        0       3        23        22       52       30       37       32    _4
SUBTOTAL                   25      185       36        44       40      111      146      -24      117       238
TOTAL APPLICATION         2        555      657      681      709     1254    1513       1557     2136     1768
.TBI SERVICE COVE-
REG BY INTERNAL
CASH GEN.(TIMES)         0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     2.60      2.44    2.96      1.60     2.41    2.61
ACCUMULATED CASH
AT END OF YEAR             25      210      215      236       254      313      429      368      453       646
NET INTERNAL CASH
GENERATION AS %
OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(Without Interest during
Construction)             -        -       24        35       42        37      43        28       34       66
May 24, 1973



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6 Pages
!4EKICO
COMISION tB AW AS DEL VALLE DE  MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
RVENUES
Revenues are from the sale of bulk water to the Federal District,
the State of Mexico, large industrial consumers and, eventually, the State
of Iidalgo. Revenues from charges on private water production in the State
of Mexico are not included because they are not earned on invested capital
and the government has not decided who would collect and use these funds.
In the Federal District, these funds are collected and used by the Federal
District. The sales of bulk water to the State of Mexico would be made
directly to the communities or through the ComisiQn Estatal.  The average
tariff of bulk water is assumed to be 1.20 Me4/me from 1974-1976 and to
increase by 33% in 1977 to 1.60 Mex$/m3. Minimum revenues (volume sold)
would be guaranteed by the District and the State of Mexico in special
agreements with the Comisi6n to be reached prior to Board presentation.
COSTS
The operating costs have been calculated for each sub-project, and
include a 5% annual allowance for contingencies (not applied to maintenance)
and a 5% annual allowance for inflation.



ANNEt 9
BATE OF RSTURN                         Page 2 of 6 Pagea
12I         1976  19   31978  1979  1980  1981
1. On non-revalued fixed assets
Income before Depreciation          136   210   298   544   660   756   864   936
Annual Depreciatlon                  (12)  (28)  (30) (64)  (76) (104) (113) (1
Income before Interest              124  182   -        IO    3    (E    (   75   37
Rate Base                           398   907   973  2064  2386  3254  2447  5553
Rate of Return                      31X%  20    28%    L      20%t   S 
2. On revalued fixed ansets
Income before Depreciation          136   210   298   544   660   756   864   936
Revalued Annual Depreciation        (12)  (29)  (3)  (66)  (78) (107) (116) (184)
Incae before Interest               124  : [   267   476   582               -7  5
Revalued Rate Base                  408  950  1064  2235  2677  3701  4104  6447
Rate of Return                   3= o£ i                     22%   18    a8    12
The annual net internal cash generation as percentage of annual
capital expenditures(excluding interest during construction, which is assumed
to be financed by the foreign and local loans) would be as follows:
1     1        3 1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981
Internal Caah Generation (IOG)      142   215   302   547   662   757   864   936
Debt Service                         -      -   (116) (224) (224) (474) (358) (358)
Disbursements for Project
Construction                      582   554   444   879  1019  1016  1482   871
Net IG as % of Capital
Expenditures                       24    39    42    37    43    28    34    66
INVTORIFS
Current Liabilitites
Inventories for chemicals and maintenance are assumed to be 6 months
of annual purchases.



Page 3 of 6 Pages
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable are assumed to be 2 months of revenues.
Accounts Payable
Accounts payable are assumed to be 1 month of chemical, power,
and maintenance plus 1-1/2 months of the disbursement for construction
work. Detailed calculations for these three items are shown below:



BANK  PROJECT                                 POST PROJECT PERIOD
Poz-os Tlr                                   Texcoco Apam      Apam           Tlautla   Miguel
DDF    Cuautitlan  Guadalupe  Tizayuca  Water    I           II   Tepeji  Ronas   Aleman I
First Year of Production     1974        197h        1975       1975      1976   1977      1978   1978    1980       1981
OPERATING COSTS
(at 1972 prices)
Labor Operation              2.8          2.8         2.3        1.8       2.2    1.7       2.2    2.5     o.6        2.5
Administrative             0.9          o.8         1.8        1.8       2.0    1.9       1.7    2.0     1.4        1.7
Chemicals                    0.6          0.5         4.3        0.8       2.0   1.3        0.8    9.2     5.3       12.7
Power                        5.0           7.4        0.5        5.2      10.4    8.9      11.1    9.2     9.6        9.2
Technical Contingencies      1.1          1.1         0.9        1.0       1.7   A1.4       1.     2.3     1.7        2.7
Maintenance                  1.2           2.4        1.3        3.8       1.6    7.1       3.3    7.4     2.1       12.4
Total                  11.6         15.0       11.0        14.4      19.9   22.3     20.7   32.6    20.7       41.2
TOTAL AT CURRENT PRICES
1974       1975       1976      1977   1978      1979   1980    1981
Operations/Maintenance                   26.6        52.1       72.0      94.3  115.0    147.6  168.3   209.5
Admtnistrative/General                     0.8        1.7        2.5       2.5    2.6       2.7    2.9     3.3
Price Contingencies (Inflation)           2.6         8.2       16.5      25.2   41.4      61.7   81.8   117.2
Total                               30.0       62.0        91.0     122.0  159.0    212.0  253.0   330.0
May 24, 1973
0
FZ



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 6 pages
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Chemicals           -      -       1.2    7.2   10.0   12.1   13.8   27.4   36.6   58.2
Power               -             13.7   21.0   34.7   47.2   65.o   81.2   99.4  118.7
Maintenance         -       -      4.0   10.1   12.5   22.2   27.7   39.5   44.6   66.1
Total            -             1~.9 _3  3      T .2  fZ6-1                 148.1  21W2.0
Accounts Payable   -        -      1.6    3.2    4.8    6.8    8.9   12.3   15.1   20.2
(1 month)         -_                                   -
Works               -    360.1  581.6  554.0  444.2  879.2 1018.7 1016.3 1481.6  87C-7
Accounts Payable
(i month)          -      5.    72.7   69.3   55.5  109.9  127.3  127.0  185.2  108.8
Accounts Payable -      4       743   72.5   60.3  116.7  136.2  139.3  200.3  129 0
Annual variances       -  45.0   29.3   18  (12.2)   6          19.5    3.1   61.0  (713
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Revenues            -       -    165.6  272.4  388.8  665.6  819.2  968.0 1116.8 12656
Accounts
Receivable
(2 months)         -      -      27.6   45.4   64.8  110.9  136.5  161.3  186.1  210,8
Annual variances   -        -     27.6   17.8   19.4   46.1   25.6   24.8   24.8   24.8
flVENTORIES
Chemicals           -       _      1.2    7.2   10.0   12.1   13.8   27.4   36.6   58.2
Haintenance         -       -      4.0   10.1   12.5   22.2   27.7   39.5   44.6   66.1
Total                _73   22.5   37 3   7 79   t1. 2  1T73
Six months
annual purchase   -       -       2.6    8.7   11.3   17.2   20.8   33.5   40.6   62.2
Annual Increase    -        -      2.6    6.1    2.6    5.9    3.6   12.7    7.1   21.6
Long-Term Debt
The two IBRD loans and the local loans detailed calculations are
shown in Anmex 10.



ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 6 pages
FORMULA TO BE USED FOR THE CALCULATION OF TARIFFS
Tariffs will be set and maintained to provide Comision with revenues
sufficient to finance from net intermal resources not less than24% of capital
expenditures of Comsisn during 1974 and 35% in each year thereafter such
percentages to be reviewed from time to time by the Guarantor and the Bank.
Comision's rates for the sale of bulk water during 1973 shall in any
case be set and m-intained at such levels as shall be required to generate,
during the years 1973-1976, both inclusive, were such rates to be maintained
during those years, net internal resources sufficient to finance 25% of capital
expenditures during such years.
The computations required shall be based on reasonable estimates
of net internal resources and capital expenditures.
For the purposes of this calculation:
(i)  the term "net internal resources" shall mean revenues
from bulk water sales, excluding any contributions
(aportaciones) from the Guarantor, consumers or other
parties, plus net income of the Texcoco non-water
operations, less the sum of operating costs, debt
service (principal, and interest and other charges
whether capitalized or charged to operations) and
assured cost of capital;
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" shall mean all
expenditures on investments, including social works
(such as those under Part G of the Project), corresponding
overhead expenses, interest and other charges on debt
capitalized or to be capitalized, and any required
increase in working capital, determined in accordance
with generally acceptable accounting practices consistently
applied; and
(iii) the term "assumed cost of capital" shall mean the cost in
money (principal and interest) Oomision would have had to
pay for funds obtained by Comision, other than loans and
revenues from the sale of water, including those received
as contributions (aportaciones) had such funds been made
available to Comision under terms and conditions substantially
in line with those under which loans for public works are
normally made in Mexico provided that if Caision receives
any loan under terms and conditions more favorable to
Comision than those under which loans for public works are
normally made in Mexico, the difference between the assumed
cost of capital and the debt service on such loans shall
be considered as an assumed cost of capital, and provided
further that during each fiscal year of Comision the
assumed cost of capital shall be computed on a compound
interest basis.
May 24, 1973



OOIIISIOh1W LS AW11 DSL VILLED DSI  OO
ICBT OAl0JTICSS3
llSICD CM9 7rARSU           PROJECT
1972     1973     1974      1975     1976      1877     1978      1979      1980     1981
BORROWINGS
IBiD 1                       0      177       304      318       326         0        0         0        0         0
FOBEIE LOANS                 0         0        0         2        0       359      443       474      701       511
LOSAL LOANS                  0       7D      413   L49            94      291       389   .323    510           392
TOTAL SORROWINGS          D        53       836i      467      520      S50       832      7        1211      903
AMORTIZATION
IBRI 1                       0        0         0        0         0       26        28       30        33       35
FOREIGN LAIINS               0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
LOCAL LAS0                            0         0        0        73...9   82         2      27        176 .121
TOTAL AMORTIZATION           0         0        0         2       73       109                2 97     29        231
LONGTERM DEBT GROS
imO 1                        0      177       481      799      1125     1099      1071     1041      1008      973
FOREIGN LuONS                0        O         0         0        0      359       802     1276      1977     2488
LOOAL LOANS                  0       76       208  ..157         378      587       884      940      1274     1469
TOTAL GROS S
LONGTERM 0EBT                0      253       689     1156      1503     2045      2757     3257      4259     4930
CURRENT PORTION
CF LONGTERM DEBT
IBRD 1                       a         0        C         0       26        28       30        33       35        37
FU4S.01(LOANS1               0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0       58
LOCAL IDANS                   0                  0       713      82        92      267       176°      19       491
TOTAL CURRENT
PORTION OF LTD               0         0        0        73      108      120       297      209       232      586
LONGTERM DEBT NET
IBR1   1                     0      177       481      799      1099     1071     1041      10o0       973      936
FQ0E=tlN LOANS               0         0        0         a        0       359      802     1276      1977     2430
LOCAL LOANS                  0       76       208      284       296      49S       617      764      1077      978
TOTAL. NET
LONGTERM DEBT                0      -253      689     1083      1395     1925      2460     3048      4027     434L
DEST REVALUATION
ACC. S.RDUE TO DEB           0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
REVALUED LTD-GROSS           0      253       689    l116       1503     2o45      2757     3257      4259     4930
REVALUED L7D-NET             0      253       689     1083      1395     1925      2460     3048      4027     4344
TOTAL INTEREST
IBNi I                       0         6       23       45       104       82        80       78        75       73
ON411 LOANS                  0         0        0         0        0       13        41       73       114      170
LOrALLOANS0                  0         4       16  _    3         48       61       107      117       139      184
TOTAL INTEREST
INCLUO.CAPITALIZED           0       10        39       83       152      156       228      268       328      427
INTEREST CAPITAL.
I0'  1                       0        6        23       45       104        0         0         0        0         0
FOtSIGN LOANB                0        0         0        0         0       13        41       73      114       170
LOCAL LOANS0                 0         4       1        30         9-      87.j               18        6       131
INTEREST CAPITAL.           t0        10       39       88       10        40       120       91        79      301
INTEREST NOT CAP.
mRD I                        0        0         0        0         0       82        80       78        75       73
FOEBGK LOANS                0        0         5        I         0        O         0        0         0        0
LOCAL L101IS                 0         0        0                43       34        24       99        74       53
TOTAL INTEREST
NOT CAPITALIZED              0         2        0         0       43       216      124       177      149       126
DEBT SERVICE
INCL.INTER.CAPITAL
ThIB_D                        0        6        23       45      104       108       108      108      108       108
7OaDN  LO.NS                  0        0         0        0         °       13        41       73      114       170
LOCAL LOANS                   0        4        16       38      1021      143       199      384      315       381
TOT. DEBT SERVICE
INC.CAPITAL.INT,             0       10        39        83      225      264       348      565       537      659
AV.INT(W.CAP)-LTD         0.00     7.87      8.28     8.99    11.43      8.79      9.50     8.91      8.73     9.29
AVE.MATURITY(YEARS        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.0C    18.22    16.43    20.01    10.12    17.98    19.81
GRS.LTD GROWTHR           0.00     0.00  172.33   67.78    30.02    36.06    34.82    18.14   30.76    15.75
OLD BORROWINGS -
OLD DEBT SERVICE
INC.CAP.INT.                 0         0        0         0        0         0         9        0        0         0
NEW BOR-NEW DEBT-S           0      243       397       384      195       386      484       232      674       244
CHANGE IN CASH
DUE TO DEST CHANGE           0      243       397       384      195       386      484       232      674      244
OLD CASH POSITION           25      212       222       244      260       320      424       481      554      719
ACCUM.CHG.IN CASH            0       243      640     1024      1219      1605     2089      2321     2995     3239
NEW CASH POSITION           25       455      862     1268      1479     1925      2513     2802      3549     3958
Ray 24. 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of e pages
.MEXICO
COMISION BE AGU&S DEL VALIE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FEDERAL DISTRICT FINANCES
The Federal District
The Federal District's past financial performance related to
water supply is extremely poor; the average tariff of Mex$3.49/m3  (U3O .0k4)
for metered connections covers merely 60% of operating expenses and
falls far short of earning any return. Its accounting system is on a
cash basis and no depreciation allowance is made. A portion of operating
expenses and all capital expenditures are met from other resources, such
as taxes on real estate and comuercial and industrial revenues. The past
financial performance of the Federal District is summarized below:
1967    1968    1969    19pi'   1971
------------Mex$ million--------------
Revenues from Water a/           168     182     184     199      210
Operating Costs                 (100)   (117)   (120)   (131)   (150)
Depreciation (estimated) b/    (136)   (152)   (175)   (199)   (211)
Income before Interest           (68)    (87)   (13-1)   (131)   (151)
Capital Expenditures             280     461     445       95     160
Other Federal District
Funds                           212     396     381       27     100
a/ Does not include revenues earned from charges on water produced by
privately-owned water sources.
b/ Calculated at an annual rate of 3% on revalued fixed assets (annual
inflation rate - 5%).



ANNEX U
Page 2 of 6 pages
The Federal District's low revenues from water are principally
due to:
(i) the low tariff;
(ii) the low revenue effectiveness index 1/ ihich averaged
about 45% in the last five years, as shown below:
1967      l968     .1969      1970      1971
Volume produced
(m3 million)              751       820       877       886        955
Revenues from Water
(Mex$ rillion)            168       182       184        199       210
Average tariff of
metered Qonnections
(lex$/m')               0.50      0.50      0.50       0.50      0.50
Revenue effectiveness
Index                     45%       44%       42%        45%       44%
District Tariffs
R!storically, the tariff and pricing policy in the District has been un-
satisfactory on economic, commercial and social equity grounds (see Annex
13). The revenues feU short of covering operating costs (in 1971 revenues
were 60% of these costs), and only 20% of the total water sold was on the
basis of measured quantities (yet 40% of the water revenues are earned
on this basis). Conscious of these problemst the President of Mexico
proposed, and the Congress approved, a general tariff increase effective
January 1, 1973 which doubles the average tariff of metered connections
in the Federal District (see page 6 of this Annex for the Tariff Schedule).
The law also stresses that all consumers, including governmental agencies,
should be charged for their full consumption of water. Nevertheless,
further measures such as reducing unaccounted-for water, improving billing
Revenues collected + volume produced
1/ Revenue effectiveness index - Average tariff of metere4 comnections (Mex$/m3).
The revenue effectiveness index is a complex index which reflects the
degree of leakage, excessive consuMption by consumers charged on a
flat rate basis, free vater, billing and collecting efficiency.



IN= 3n
Page 3 of 6 pages
and collection efficiency, etc. should be taken by the Federal IDLstrict
in order to increase the revenue effectiveness index. Following is
a schedule of the unit tariff, revenue effectiveness index and effective
tariff which can easily be achieved.
Effective Unit Tariff Table
Average Unit Tariff       Revenuoe
to                Effectiveness      Effective
Year        Metered Cgnnections      Index               Uhit Tariff
(Mex$/m) )                                (Mex$/m3)
1972             0.49                    45                  0.22
1973             1.00                    45                  0.45
1974             1.00                    50                  0.5o
1975             1.00                    55                  0.55
1976             1.00                    60                  o.60
1977             1.30 a/                 62                  0.80
1978             1.30                    64                  0.83
1979             1.30                    66                  0.86
1980             1.30                    68                  0.88
1981             1.30                    70                  0.91
a/ This increase is to offaet monetary (inflationary) increase in costs.
Federal District Financing Plan
The Federal District's investment program in distribution systems
for the next four years (1973-1976) amounts to Mex$700 million (US$56 million).
This program has been established to satisfy the increasing demand and
appears reasonable. There are no long-term debts for water activities.
The financing plan for the period 1973-76 (presented below) assumes that
the proposed tariff and revenue objectives of the precedig schedule would
be attained.



ANN~EX 11
Page 4 of 6 pages
Mex$              US$
---m-million-------
APPLICATICNS
Expenditures in distribution system                703               56
Expenditures in sewerage systems                   270               22
Increase in Working Capital                         30              02
Total Applications                            1.003               80
SOURCES
Revenues                                         2,472              398
Less:  Operating Costs                          (1,469)            (118)
Total Sources                                 1                   80
Federal District Future Finances
Provided the effective umit tariff is maintained at the levels
shown in the Effective Unit Tariff Table, the financial position of the
Federal District's water activities would be satisfactory through 1980.
Forecast financial figures for selected years are smmiarized below:
1973     1975     1977     1979      __1
Revenues from Water         450       679    1,073    1,231       1,392
Operating Costa             (160)    (442)    (713)    (913)    (1,092)
Depreciation                (243)    (282)    (321)    (365)       (414)
Income before Interest       47       (45)      39       (47)      (114)
Capital Expenditures        203       161      124      190          86
Cash Surplus                 87        76      236      128         214



ANNEX 311
Page 5 of 6 pages
The operating costs bave been estimated at current prices and
include the purchases of water from the Comisi&i, beginning in 1974,
which are needed to meet the projected demand. qperating oostJ are
assumed to increase in proportion to the volume produced. No local or
foreign borrowings would be necessary.
Although the Federal District would meet its financial needs
if the measures proposed are adopted, income before interest would be
insufficient to achieve a satisfactory financial rate of return on assets.
In order to do so, revenue increases would have to exceed those propoaed
herein by 80%, and this would not be acceptable to the Government even
though funds thereby generated could advantageously be applied to Bsevrage
operations (Which are presently paid from general revenues) or to help
finance future water source developments. Furthermore, the tariff and
revenue measures, while a step in the right direction, do not reach mar-
ginal oost levels, hence do not eliminate economic distortions.  Annex 13
is a discussion of the economic implications of tariff policies of the District.



AMUE 11
Page 6 f 6 pages
MXCO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEMICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FEDERAL DISTRICT OF NEXICO RETAIL WATER TARFFS EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1- 1973
- ABSTRACT -
1.        Metered Connections (Decreto Article 521).
Bimonthly Consumption     Mex$/m3
Up to 50 m3               0.30
100                 0.50
150                 0.75
250                 1.00
500                 1.25
More than 500 m3          1.50
If the quantity consumed is less than 50 m3, the bimonthly charge shall be
Mex$15.00.
2.       Non-metered Connections (Decreto Article 521).
Service Pipe Diameter          Mex$/Bimonth
Up to 13 am                     27.00
19                       500.00
26                     1,000.00
32                     1,500.00
39                     2,000.00
51                     4,000.00
64                    10,000.00
75                    15,000.00
If the service pipe diameter exceeds 75 m., the bimonthly charge shall be in
proportion to the diameter and the above charges.
3.        There shall be no exemptions from payment for water services to
Federal State and Municipal Governments, decentralized agencies, public
assistance agencies, private entities or any other institution or entity
(Decreto Article 533).
4.        Water produced from wells and not used for agricultural purposes
shall be charged in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 above. As in
paragraph 3, no institutions or entities covered by this paragraph are
exempted from payment (Decreto Article 535).
May 24, 1973



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2 pages
mEICO
CCKISION t9 AGUAS DEL VALLE DE YMECO
MEXICO CITr WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAIE OF MEXICO FINANCES
The State of Mexico
There is little reliable data on the past financial performance
of water retailers in the State of Mexico. Few of the 600 communities of
the State produce financial statements. Thus financial projections for the
State of Mexico have been made by the consultants with reaAonable assumptions
concerning the population, the volumes produced and sold, and the capital
expenditures necessary for the distribution systems. The financial projections
were reviewed and adjusted by the Bank taking into account an additional 5% of
total operating costs ,or annual contingencies, a reasonable 20% leakage
through 1976 and 15%:V leakage thereafter.
Financial projections for the aggregate water retail operation in
the State are summarized below for selected years:
1973     1975     1977      1979      1981
----------r x$ million-----------------
Revenues from Water           111       164      349       594       749
operating Costs                (48)     (78)    (232)      (390)    (561)
Depreciation                   (27)     (37)     (49)       (66)     (90)
Income before Interest         36        49       68       138        98
Rate Base                      933      1212    1621      21145     2785
Rate of Return                 4%        4%       4%        6%        4%
Local Financing                40        40       60        70        70
Debt Service                   -         -        39       1o4       65
Capital Expenditures            84      110      119       152       179
Increase in Working Capital    19        16       19        18        14
1/ Leakage of retail water operations only. Since after 1976 most of the
State's water will be purchased from the Comisi&i, which itself has 5%
leakage, overall leakage would remain at about 20%.



ANN3I 12
Page 2 of 2 pages
The financial conditicn of the water retailers of the State would
be sound dnring the period 1973-81 if the average retail tariffs are NexjIOOA/3
through 1981, and if 40% of the capital expenditures are financed by government
loans or local banks. They would also generally achieve an acceptable financial
rate of return on investmaents.
May 2h, 1973



ANNEX 13
Page 1Tof 6 pages
MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
ME3ICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ECONOMIC WATER PRICING, TARIFTS AND LONG-RANGE PLANNING
Planning and Pricing
1.        Water supply planning for Mexico City must be done in the context
of the long-range resource allocation goals of the country as a whole. The
recently initiated National Water Study, which will consider the allocation
of water resources between sectors and geographical regions of the country
would provide a basis to judge the merits and consequences of further
expansimn in the metropolitan area as far as water is concerned. Ey 1980
the additional cost of bringing water to Mexico City compared to using the
same water at its source will be at least two pesos per cubic meter (for the
Miguel Aleman Scheme) and, as still further removed sources are tapped, the
differential will increase. Although the question of "optimum city size" is
unanswered, there is doubt that the benefits of continued expansion in the
Mexico City metropolitan area would compensate for the "surcharged" costs of
water and other urban services, and the cost of congestion and pollution.
In recogniticn that uncontrolled growth of the metropolitan area is not in
the interest of the country the Federal Government has enacted a law to
promote industrial decentralization.
2.        In view of the pressures for continued urban growth and the
Government's concern, the question of water pricing becomes important.
Water in the city of Mexico is, and despite the retail tariff increases just
enacted, will continue to be priced below the average economic cost'/ of
producing and distributing it.
3.        If an inverse relationship between the price of water and the
quantity consumed (which has been observed in other cities) exists in
Mexico City, the level of water tariffs would have an impact upon the
quantities of water consumed and would also influence decisions involving
water consuming investments. To prevent distortions in resource allocation,
it is important that the resource price accurately reflect it. opportunity
coat to the economy. The opportunity cost is either the value of the factora
of production used to produce the last unit of water consumed (marginal cost)
or, if the comuodity has an alternative use, its marginal value in that use,
whichever is higher.
l/ The economic cost includes depreciation, a rate of return on net assets.,
and operation cost.



ANNEY 13
Page 2 of 6 pages
4.        Figure I graphicaLly illustrates the diseconomies that result if
water is priced below its narginal cost.
Priee in
Pesos/mn3
P12 
Quantity ina3
Figure I
With the prile at marginal cost (Pmc), a volume Q77 would be supplied to
satisfy dasnd and the net benefits would be (HICE-HICG). With price at
less than marginal costs (P77) a greater volume (Q'77) would be supplied
but the net benefits (ABCE - FBCG) would be reduced by an amount equivalent
to the area AHF. This area is the annual resource allocaticm distortion
cost (in a static sense) caused by the less-than-marginal-cost pricing policy.
The graph shows that it is unecmomical to charge less than marginal cost for
water and to supply an "excess" volume (Q 77 - Q'77) since the cost of
producing this volume is greater than what consumers are willing to pay for
it.
5.        The distortion cost and the "excess" volume depend on the price
elasticity of demand (the slope of the demand curve); the more inelastic
the demand, the less the distortion cost and the "excess" volume. In the



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6 pages
extreme case of an entirely inelaatic demand, there would be no resource
distortion cost. The lack Df information on demand elasticity in Mexico
City precludes estimation of the distortion cost resulting from an
insufficient water tariff, but it is believed that the distortion cost
and the excess volume is small compared to the overall yield of the Project
(see Annex 5 for a sensitivity analyses of the rate of return with respect
to price elasticity).
6.        The demand for water is inelastic at low price levels but
elasticity increases with price. However even with low elasticity a
considerable ome-time reduction in wasteful consumption usually results
when free-water is abolished or metering introduced (thereby raising the
marginal price from zero to a positive level). A raise in prices is likely
to have a sigaificant impact on consumpticn if the increase is high enough
and the price is brought to a level where the cost of water represents a
considerable burden on the consumer both in relation to his other
expenditures or, in the case of industries, other industrial inputs.
7*        The per-capita demand projections for the Project are based on
the present price level, which is less than half of the 1977 level, and the
Project is designed to supply the Q'77 volume. It is therefore important
to carefuIly observe the response of demand to the proposed increase in
water price (and the elimination of free water), and, if the decrease in
demand (Q'77 - Q77) is substantial, to postpone construction of some of
the subprojects.
8.        In addition to the distortion cost illustrated in the preceeding
static analysis, the dynamic effects resulting from under pricing and its
sigaals to water consumers, have to be considered. For example, an
entrepreneur might correctly decide against locating a new water consuning
industrial plant in the city if he were to cost water inputs at their
long-range marginal cost, but unless the price charged by the utility is
equivalent to the marginal cost, the entrepreneur would lack the information,
and the incentive, to do so. Thus improper price information could result
in uneconomic plant location or manufacturing processes; both would cause
continuing distortions over time.
9.        Marginal cost pricing should be considered for Mexico City during
the next decade. At present, and even more so in the future, more water is
extracted from the Valley of Mexico than nature replenishes, i.e., water is
mined. The marginal cost of mining not only consists of the production
costs, but also of depletion, or scarcity costs. This scarcity cost is the
difference between the cost of importing water from other river basins and
the cost of extracting water from the Valley of mexico. If the scarcity cost
is added to the actual production cost of water in the 1970s, the price of
water would be equal to the marginal cost of the Schemes of the long-range
program.



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of6 pages
10.       The Government insists that it is politically impossible to
increase the retail price of water to the level of the marginal production
and distribution costs of the long-range schemes before the schemes actually
come into operation in the 1980s. At a minimum, however, the structure for
each year should equal the marginal cost of producing and distributing
water in that same year. Since with this approach the tariffs would not
correspond to the long-range marginal cost of water, other measures, such as
information campaigns and urban planning, would have to be effected in order
to insure thiat consumer decisions taken in the 1970s properly consider the
steeply increasing cost of water through the 1980s and 1990s.
11.       This partial analysis, which covers the water sector only, does not
consider effects of uneconomic water pricing outside the sector. In the long
run artifically cheap water causes excessive consumption, and, through its
effect on population location and industrial production, could contribute to
pollution, congestion, and increased costs of other urban infrastructure such
as sewerage and transportation.
Elements of a Retail Tariff Structure
12.       This section outlines some of the basic elements in an economic
tariff structure for the metropolitan area based on the foregoing discussion
of water pricing. It sets forth a conceptual framework to serve as a basis
for evolving tariff policy.
13.       The tariff level and structure should have two major objectives:
(i) to contribute to an efficient allocation of resources;
and,
(ii) to contribute to social equity and improved public health.
The two objectives sometimes conflict and have to be traded off. For instance,
if marginal cost pricing is applied to distribution costs (which normally
decrease with the volume consumed), social equity would be impaired because
the large (and presumably wealthier) consumer would pay a lover unit price
than the small cnasumer.
14.       Resource allocation objectives should prevail when pricing the
consumption of large, price-elastic consumers. The price should be set
equal to the marginal bulk water cost, plus the average (for social equity
reasons) distribution and sewerage cost. Since with groundwater supplies
capacity can be added in small increments in response to demand, fixed
and operating costs can be directly related to the volume of water consumed.
In the long-range program, when investments are more lumpy, capacity costs
would be included in the tariff structure as a fixed charge. The approximate
water cost structurefor the 1973-1981 period is demonstrated in Graphs 7274
and 7275.



ANNEX 13
Page 5 of6 pages
15.       For small consumers, social equity and public health objectives
should prevail. A minimum quantity for basic amenities should be allocated
to each water connecticn. The quantity could be given free or, if a price
is charged, at a flat rate determined by the purchasing power of low-income
families.    The price would be unrelated to '>he quantity so as not to preclude
essential consumption. Metering and meter reading would nevertheless be
necessary to determine if, and by how much, the minimum quantity has been
exceeded. In the case of apartment buildings with one meter for several
apartments the minimum quantity allowable would be multiplied by the number
of apartments served by the meter.
16.       Between the marginal cost-pricing category and the low-income
category a steeply progressive rate would be adopted. The lower level of
the marginal cost-pricing category and the degree of progressiveness would
be set to collect the average tariff required for financial reasons subject
to the limit that a certain perce'ntage o'f the consumers be charged-for
water at itts marginal cost.
17.       Intracity resource allocation would also be an objective of the
tariff. A uniform tariff structure over the entire metropolitan area would
help avoid regional distortions. If, for financial reasons, the average
tariff must be higher in the State of Mexico than in the Federal District,
the marginal tariff should in any case be equal. It would be preferable
to have the same average tariff in the District and the State; possibly
achieved by applying a higher bulk water tariff to the District than to the
State.
18.       The present policy of giving free water to consumers who can afford
to pay (including government agencies) must be ended if efficient resource
allocation and financially viable water operations are to be attained.
Requiring governmental agencies to pay for water on the basis of volume would
probably reduce their demand. Even more important is the need to eliminate
free water to income producing decentralized institutions such as the
National Petroleum Corporation, the Federal Electricity Commission and the
railways.
19.       With the steeply increasing marginal prices the tariff structure
outlined above would generate a substantial cash surplus in the Federal
District and the State of Mexico; this could be used for financing future
water investments.  As these investments are going to be undertaken by the
Comision, it would be logical to transfer the surplus to the Comisio'n, by
pricing the bulk water at its marginal cost. However regional income
distribution considerations mitigate against this solution for the following
reasons:
(i) The burden of a raise in the bulk water price falls relatively
heavy on consumers in the State of Mexico (which4-bentains most
of the low inome areas) because most of the water to be
retailed in the State will be purchased from the Camision;



ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6 pages
(ii)  The Federal District produces a large amount of low-cost
water and thus can establish an average tariff which is
lower than the bulk water tariff. A differentiated bulk
water tariff chargingless to the State of Mexico than the
Federal District would solve this problem.
20.       The type of tariff structure proposed above would be desirable on
social equity grounds since small consumers would not be affected by the
tariff increase, and in some cases, might even pay less for water than at
present as a result of the minimum allowance. The tariff structure would
also be desirable on efficiency grounds because large consumers, including
industries, would be required to pay the marginal cost of water. Finally,
it would strengthen the financial position of water entities and produce
funds for future water sector investments from within the sector itself.
The structure is, however a radical departure from the Government's policy
of subsidizing public utility prices and prices on basic food commodities;
hence even a partial adoption of the proposal would be a notevorthly
accomplishment.
May 24, 1973



MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SECRETARIATE OF HYDRAULIC RESOURCES
ORGANIZATION CHART
Secretary of Hydraulic Resources
<           b+    - L                     Private Secretary
Commission for National Water Planning                           Technical Secretary
Five River Basin Commissions                                 Technical Adviser
Commission of Human Relations                                    Controller
-          ~~~Administrative Officer
Commission of Saline Water
Public Relations
Planning                        Construction                              Operation                        Administration
Iriain&Major
StudiesIrrigo Cont                                                          r                              Administration
Planning     l|                     MinorMinor                                                              Organization
4iI a-1    Irrigation                   and Methods
g  Pollution  l              |  Water Supply   |l Water Supply
l   Control  l             l   and Sewerage                              and Sewerageup                      Controlier     l
~r Systems   l           -|        WLegal      l
World Bank -7164 (F






MEXICO
CM-SION LE AGUAS DEL SALLE  E   XC.Mxc
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HIGHLIGHTING AGENCIES INTERESTED
IN WATER SUPPLY
j j j   A S, . G O v E R N T I T



I



MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE FEDERAL DISTRICT
PRESIDENT OF
THE REPUBLIC
EXECUTIVE OFFICER
OF THE DISTRICT   r          1   JDICIARY
CONSULTATIVE
U - - m -    -             COMMITTEE
COMPTROLLER                 WORKSAND                  GOVERNLOCAL                                                I i            i 
SERVICES                    SERVIE                    COMMITTEES                AMNSRTO                        RAUYOHRSRIE
PUBLIC WORKS                                                                            MATIONETRO
RELATIONS                                              MTHODS
TRAFFIC  SOCIA  SERVICES       SOCAL ACTIVITIESPROGRAMMING
-| TRAFFIC l =0 {91 -| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND STORESl
HYDRAULIC                    HEALTH                      S                          STTST                                                  TRANSPORT
WORKS
WATER SUPPLY +                                                RAL                 ADMINISTRATIVE]
SEWERAGE            ~~LEGAL                     SEVCES                     SERVICES
SEWERAGE lll=
URBAN SERVICES                                                                        ECONOMIC
STUDIES
WOrld Bank -7214






MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE OF MEXICO
<>   Trnn5i crt  a   r  w   Snrslces )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o
stras;on g(rGurism)~~~~~~~~Mon
Gover~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a dB nk- 72r13






MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ACTIVITY SCHEDULE
1972                 1973                   1974                  1975                  1976
ITEM                  QUARTERS              QUARTERS              QUARTERS               QUARTERS              QUARTERS
1st  2nd  3rd  4th   1 st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th   1 st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th
GROUNDWATER SCHEMES
POZOS SUR                          -    -.u1             r 
CONCU R RENT LY
CUAUTITLAN                         _               - R  _
TIZAYUCA                                                          -   - - -   - -
APAM I-----  ---U--
SURFACE WATER SCHEME
GUADALUPE                     ~m                                                   
CON CURRENTLYV
GENERAL PUBLIC WORKS                                        _    _      _                    _                _          _     _
CONCURRENTLY
PUBLIC WORKS -TEXCOCO                          -                       _      _              _    _    _    _    _             _
STUDIES                                        * * m .. t                        - Elm 1 1              * ,                     .
Eg.......S$iss.: y  EQUIPMENT SUPPLY                                @ ENGINEERING
CIVILWORKS                                             TENDER
*iim m - - - lSTUDIES                                              (D DELIVERY
0C CONSTRUCTION                World Bank-7177






MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION
REALIZED AND FORECAST
25
20                                                   7/
c~~~~~
15                                              /
c
0
iL        ~~MEXICO CITY METROPOLITON AREA  /FDRLDSRC
10                                            -
4.-
YEAR
5
.. ~~~SAOAULO,BRAZIL      000            STATE OF MEXICO
(For Comparision)
1940       1950       1960       1970       1980       1990        2000
YEAR                    World Bank - 7166 (R)






MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FORECASTED WATER PRODUCTION AND DEMAND
70                                                    I
66_                                                                         |D||           s
I.-~~
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a~~~~~
60
0
0~                                                      G -  E 
o                ~~~~~~~~Br 
>               ~~~~EXPECTED
50                      _         f      PROJECT WORKS  -YIELD
PRODUCTION D                     A Poos Sr        2.
D  /            ~~~~~~B Guadiupe  3.3
_   /                 ~~~~~~~~~C Cuaujtitbon  2.0
_  \                  ~~~~~~~~~D Los Reyes  3.7
w  EMAND             E Apan           3.0
45 _      C                                 F Texcoco        1.0
/                   ~~~~~~POST PROJECT
, r                    ~~~~~~~     ~     ~~G Tcpeii  3.2
v                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~H Tlaiatii Roses    1.1
A                                     I Miudie Alrnan 1   4S5
411973   11974         1975   11976         1977       1978      1979       1980   I1981
YEAR
Note: Plotted dernand includes all loesm.
World Bankh716712R)






MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS
D            NACIONAL~~~~~~~~NAIOA
*                                  \<                                FINANCIERA                              TE
GOVERNMN
CONTRI
WATER       ....       SOURCE                                                   _TI
CONSUMERS                 CHEMES
COMISION  ..........................   .LOCAL
DE AGUAS DEL    ^                           \_    LOANS
-/~~~~~~~~~~AL *                   ^DE MEXICO\
BENEFICARIES           MTEXCOCOULTIPUR
=_ ,/ V~~~SCHEME*
RETAIL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~TAEO
IlSTRIBUTION      |      .......  DISTRICT                          (COMISION ESTATAL:   ...   SYSTEMS/
WATER               PROPERTY                                                 *             RETAIL WATER
ONSUMER                 OWNERSM
LEGEND
K;:O    = Fund Sources                                         MUNICIPALITIES       .DISTRIBUTION
W       = Governmental Agencies                                                         \
Q       = Physical systems
Flows to construction works
...  P Flows from beneficiaries                              .ET
OWNERS                 WATER
CNSUMERS
World Bank-7215






COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Tentative
PRESIDENT
(Secretary of Hydraulic Resources)
r   State   l    l       Chief             J Federal
Mex,co                  Ex    ve
|    Internal  F    |    Executive                Advisory
|  Audits                    Secretary    |    | Committee
Legal                Administration               Finance                    and                  Construction              Operation 
-|    Personnel  l    0 Accounting               Basic Studies  |            Civil VVorks        Super Chiefnen
Contracts             Cost Accounting            Civil Works               Electrical                 Shops
_ Ivnoes _ Projectiens    l  _  Electrical        Mechanical               Warehouses
Billing and               Statistics               Mechanical
|    CoWlecting                                                                                            B     - 7     (R)
i:Estimating   1        =       _    _
rf Laboratories |
Surveying
-| Drafting 
World Bank -7165 (R)






MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTED ECONOMIC COST AND REVENUES
FOR BULK WATER PRODUCED BY THE COMMISSION
4.00
3.50-
3.00-
2.50-
Marginal bulk water cost
2.00-
1.50-
1.00 
0.50-
0
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977     1978       1979     1980      1981
YEARS
Notes: 1. Costs and revenues are in current prices and are based on retail volume sold (i.e., 80% of volume produced)
2. All values are approximate; values beyond 1980 are uncertain.
World Bank - 7274 (FR






MEXICO
COMISION DE AGUAS DEL VALLE DE MEXICO
MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTED ECONOMIC COST AND REVENUES
OF WATER SUPPLY, FEDERAL DISTRICT OF MEXICO
4.00      -
3.50 
3.00 
2.50-
Mar inal cost of water
2.00-
Average cost of voater
1.00                                                              00~~.-
_1 v>~ Avrage cc s ot wat;.......    ..... ....... .1.........................  .,.
__*v.s 5^'^ .ss*   (exctudins  return on not fixed assest of the FederalI District)
Average rvul tes colltcted under proposed tEris
o                         '' 11I      L          AI
1973     1974       1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
YEARS
Notes: ll. Coats and revenues are  i,current prices and are based on wale, sold (i.., 80% of voiuve producedo
2. Ale values are approx imate, values beyond 1980 are uncertain.
World 8dnk - 727§ lR)






IBRD-102206R
I W                                                                                                                                 12 MAY 1973
\5 ___e \,Tula                                                                                                                                                                                           NA O^\tDpvoO   u>/1   ,-'    MEXICO
;.                                                                 47XOt \\   _/                                                                                                                               ComisiQn de Aguas del Valle de Me'xico
000                             t                    - >'                      / J                    /                              /  \N                                                                 MEXICO CITY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
W   ~~~~~~~ t  ~~~~~~~~2                  /                \                                                                                  _=_ State boundarieS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttebanare
)  ..\ ..          . .......                                                                              .                   i                              M O  e nds
,r\       :    '                  .   ; .K                                      .a           a.                   ..--                                    .                      ,S EX STING WATER WORKS
argo  .2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
Oh,,  y  3bmpsngo  y/ i_/                                       /                         tPROPOSED PROJECT WORKS
C7) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mT.e-enIlat
0  :   q70&>   /            <                                             /      4           =         g                                 ',                     o      ---- Tunnel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~une
..........                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POST-PROJECT WORKS
f -A-<  -   -   '   /                     9             7    4            _-_ nunnels           t Tettent sue
9~ < l ~\\0.,.//- /  /~.e       On ac                      -                     PRESENT SOIJRCES OF SUPPLY
NAME                        YIELe
S   \   I  /AJz  =  LAKr    ~~~~~f    /            | s                                       \       : ' .                              @     PrivuTe wel stFedelul Dlstilrn  ®    ClSedan.5
Chlip~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OOiiaTta-cMui'l                                                                                               O
Jgf sr=;edr = 1, E  N   t/nt Lm/tten/)  f  ,             t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          .Ptete.leStt o  eno)                                      
I, Tot  Net of 3  ItansCiss on CEsPs  9 05
\IA:KoZ /5~ tf,                                                                                                                                                        I) =12,< X Jif = f-; ! -g;UV Reyes /J \  POST_aRdeaaRETORh5
;, - t   /  oz   WU ~~~~~~~~ i1E=  L,: If - . I8f ~~~~~~~~~~%   \                                                   \                                               NAME        Y ELD       f.LMPLENAETaI..S COMPTNO
,            C      PIb     1 2t, I m.--e 4    57t
\%  T.aao            10 .  ".,   )   - t  \  M,)t5
~~~/X?X ........... ..    . |(EF FMLF} 
(i   i 1paNIII    0--        19.%
IRR GAT.=                                             ........ ..                    -1SS EDF9E    D               ;   ;;1 - .f. \.P.     PROJECT WORKS
ZONE                                                                                                                      NAME       I EL        iOMPLE N .  E
\2                                                                                                                                                                                     R....rnwa<~  IfioTnsCroc*s  T  174To 19u01.  WWA N2.b.AYM.  T
(/55   Tlanta Rass    2I        1077;7
6<    M Alera-      20           SR   55519
V-~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at
............DURA
0 5     10      iN        P        5
a-nv2'       NOin~~~RCOi                                                  .                          Kil-eietens                          Pa ~ft   One  -          ELS  OWO       .NAAAA
SnMiguel Atla-ta         '.       a             N                            15                                          05WeE
/                                                                                  'at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m.
TeEseneeae5g    ,eTn..aa.                                                 rgal                                                                                        sa,,,,e,,



