Report No. 1498-KE
Appraisal of the
Industrial Development Bank (IDB) Kenya
May 5, 1977
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Industrial Development and Finance Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Note:  The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (Ksh).
However, in conformity with the prevalent practice in Kenya, large
amounts in this report are expressed in Kenya pounds (Kb). In October
1975, the Kenya Shilling was devalued and pegged to the SDR at a rate
of SDR1 = Ksh 9.66, and the rate vis-a-vis the US Dollar has fluctuated
since that time. For the purposes of this report, the following
exchange rates have been used.
Kb 1 = Ksh 20   US$2.39
US$1   KS 0.419   Ksh 8.35
UKbI   K6 0.699 = Ksh 14.0
DM 1 = Kb 0.419 = Ksh 3.41
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    African Development Bank
DEG    Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit
DFCK   Development Finance Company of Kenya
EADB   East African Development Bank
ECGD   Export Credit Guarantee Department
EIB    European Investment Bank
ICDC   Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB    Industrial Development Bank
ISPC   Industrial Survey and Promotion Center
KCB    Kenya Commercial Bank
KIE    Kenya Industrial Estates
KNAC   Kenya National Assurance Company
NBK    National Bank of Kenya
NPC    New Projects Committee
ODM    U.K. Overseas Development Ministry
PAS    Project Advisory Service
FISCAL YEAR
IDB        : January 1 - December 31
Government : July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMEMARY    .........................    ..............................
I. INTRODUCTION ........
II.  ENVIRONMENT       ......................   .....................
The Economy .........................................            1
The Manufacturing Sector ...........................             3
Government's Manufacturing Policies .         ................   3
Change in Industrial Development Strategy ...........            4
111.  FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ................................             5
The Stock Exchange ....................                          6
Commercial Banks ....................                            6
Development Finance Institutions ..............                  6
IV.  THE COMPANY ......................................                  9
Background                        . .    9
Share Capital .                       .                          9
Board of Directors    .                 .10
Management   . .10
Organization and Staff    .                .11
Policies and Lending Terms    .              .13
Procedures   .                      .15
Auditors and Lawyers  . .16
V. OPERATIONS AND FINANCE......   16
Operations  . .16
Portfolio   . .18
Finance  . .19
VI. PROSPECTS   ..20
IDB's Strategy   ..20
Forecast Operations    .                 .20
Resource Requirements    .                .22
Forecast Financial Results          .        .                  22
Increase in Share Capital   .               .23
VII.  THE LOAN - ITS JUSTIFICATION AND RISK .23
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS .24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Tom. C. Tsui, Frank K. Vita, and Michel B. Cramer which visited
Kenya in November, 1976.
F This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Board of Directors (as of December 31, 1976)
2. Statement of Policy and Regulations
3.  Orgatization Chart, 1977-1978
4. List of IDB Approvals and Disbursements (as of December 31, 1976)
5. Analysis of Total Approvals
6. List of IDB Project Possibilities (as of December 31, 1976)
7. Assumptions for Projected Operations and Projected Financial Statements,
1977-1981
8. Actual and Projected Operations, 1973-1981
9. Projected Resource Position
10.  Actual and Projected Income Statements, 1973-1981
11. Actual and Projected Balance Sheets, 1973-1981
12. Actual and Projected, Sources and Uses of Fund Statements, 1973-1981
13. Actual and Projected Financial Ratios, 1973-1981
14. Kenya: Financial Policies and Guidelines
15. Principal Interest Rates (as of June 30, 1976)
16. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan



KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Basic Data
Exchange Rate:  KS 1 = US$2.39
Date of Creation: January 12, 1973
Date of Start of Operations: April 1, 1973
Ownership
Kb million         _
Government                                    1.96           49.0
Industrial and Commercial Development
Corporation 1/                                1.04           26.0
Kenya National Assurance Company 1/           1.50           12.5
National Bank of Kenya 1/                     1.50           12.5
Loans 2/
(KS 000) -
1973         1974        1975         1976
Approvals                 644         1437         2501         3744
Commitments                -          1049        1604         4474
Disbursements              -           469         1040         2981
Equity Investments
Approvals                  55          724          264         1603
Commitments                -           481          524         966
Disbursements              -           220          472          721
Interest Rate and Other Charges
Interest rate: 10 - 11%
Commitment charge: 1% p.a. on undisbursed balance
Appraisal fee: progressive from 1/4% to 1% of loan amount
1/   100% Government-owned.
2/   For comparison, all loans in foreign currencies were valued at the
same exchange rates of November 1976.
3/   Net of cancellations.



Basic Data on Bank Loans
A. Status of loans (as of March 31, 1977)
Date of                         US$ Million
Effectiveness        Loan Amount   Authorized   Disbursed
946-KE         March 26, 1974             5             5            4.4
1148-KE        October 9, 1975           10             5.5          3.7
B. Summary of Loan Features
946-KE
Foreign exchange risk: at IDB's option, either fully assumed by clients,
or the Kb/US$ risk taken by clients and US$/dis-
bursement currency risk borne by Government.
Final date for project submission: March 31, 1976
Closing date for disbursements: March 31, 1978
Project free limit: US$200,000
Aggregate free limit: US$1 million
1148-KE
Foreign exchange risk: to be assumed fully by clients; in exceptional
circumstances, foreign exchange risk split beween
the Government and the borrower
Final date for project submission: July 1, 1977
Closing date for disbursements: July 1, 1979
Project free limit: US$400,000
Aggregate free limit: US$2 million



APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (KENYA)
SUMMARY
i.        The Industrial Development Bank (IDB) was established in 1973
through joint efforts of the Bank, the Government, and the Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) to finance medium to large-scale
industrial enterprises. IDB received its first Bank loan of $5.0 million in
1973 and its second for $10.0 million in 1975; the commitment rates of both
loans have been rapid. Although IDB continues to look for Bank support to
maintain its growing operations, it has embarked upon a successful program
of tapping additional overseas finance from West Germany, U.K., the African
Development Bank, and other sources as well as domestic finance from the
Kenyan Government and local financing institutions.
ii.       World-wide recession and inflation plus drought during the last few
years adversely affected Kenya's economic activities; its GDP growth rate
dropped from 4.1% (1974) to 0.7% (1975). The economy started to recover in
1976. While the manufacturing sector was also affected, it has fared com-
paratively better than many other sectors including agriculture, despite a
lack of growth in investment levels in those years. Despite a temporary
improvement in the balance of payments due to high coffee prices, Kenya is
facing a structural problem of increasing scarcity of foreign exchange. The
manufacturing sector is being looked upon increasingly by the Government as
an important vehicle, along with agriculture, for restructuring the economy
so that rapid development can be achieved notwithstanding this constraint.
To this end, Government is developing a more consistent industrial strategy
which will eliminate the existing bias against export-oriented industries,
reduce the heavy import dependence and emphasize utilization of domestic
resources as well as employment creation. While the Government-continues to
welcome foreign investment in this predominantly private sector, more Kenyan
entrepreneurs will be encouraged to enter the sector.
iii.      The Bank is maintaining a continuous dialogue with the Governiaent
on industrial policy issues, which allows the Bank to monitor progress in
policy implementation as a background to the Bank's expanding lending program
to the industrial sector. IDB, on its side, expects to contribute to the
dialogue on industrial policy formulation and will also implement investments
consistent with Government strategy. In addition to assisting the industrial -
sector through IDB, the Bank is also taking steps to help the small-scale
enterprise sector via ICDC's subsidiary, the Kenyan Industrial Estates (KIE).
The International Finance Corporation has assisted several industrial ventures
in Kenya as well.
iv.       IDB's operations have grown at a good pace since 1973, going from
KbO.7 million (US$1.7 million) in approvals in 1973 to Kb5.3 million (US$13
million) for 1976 alone. At the same time, its management has kept a close
eye on internal processing and control procedures to ensure that weaknesses
in the system are quickly bolstered. As a result, IDB is maintaining good



- ii -
rates for committing and disbursing its investments and adequately supervis-
ing its portfolio. IDB-funded projects cover a wide range of sub-sectors,
mostly Kenyan-sponsored, which include agro-processing, textile, and other
fields primarily located away from the center of urban concentrations. Eco-
nomic rates of return of projects approved by IDB have averaged over 15%.
In the course of its own development, IDB has identified a bottleneck to
Kenyan industrial development - viz., development of medium-sized enterprises
run by Kenyan entrepreneurs. IDB intends to establish a new Project Advisory
Services (PAS) unit to provide technical assistance, at a fee, to such Kenyan
entrepreneurs who possess the initiative and capital but lack the know-how.
v.        Two areas recently began to constrain  IDB's level of operations
- one was staffing and the other was availability of financial resources. IDB
has adapted a satisfactory staffing plan to resolve the first problem. For the
second, IDB has been successful in tapping overseas resources and continues to
seek Bank assistance as well as assistance from other international donors for
its continued expansion. In addition, IDB intends to increasingly mobilize
domestic resources as well. In effect its shareholders have agreed to increase
their holdings pro rata to raise IDB's share capital base from K4.0 million to
K;6.0 million by 1981. The Government and IDB have agreed to ensure the full
allotment and subscription of the share capital increase by December 31, 1977,
and that the payment schedule will meet IDB's operational requirements. IDB
is also discussing borrowing possibilities from local financial institutions.
Finally, IDB expects to rely on its role as agent for managing investments for
the Government's account to increase its impact on industry.
vi.       Aside from the temporary staffing constraint, IDB's organization
and staff have been well-adapted for its tasks. The recruitment in 1976 of
a Legal Officer and an Engineering Advisor and the creation of the successful
Investments (Supervision) Division came at an appropriate period of its
growth; during the first quarter of 1977 an Investment Analyst for training
was appointed, along with four new Projects staff members. These developments
should sufficiently specialize and distribute functions to reduce overloading
management and senior staff and enable IDB to expand its operations. IDB has
developed comprehensive procedures and operating manuals which should continue
to work well.
vii.      IDB, which was originally not expected to show a profit until 1977,
was able to realize a small profit (after tax and prQvision) of KhJ9,OOO in
1975 which further improved in 1976. Although it expects its future financial
expenses and administrative costs to rise dramatically because of increased
borrowings and practice of hiring high-calibered Kenyan staff, IDB aims to
average a net profit equivalent to 2.0% of its average equity over the next
three years. IDB's total assets, which are Kn7.8 million (US$18.6 million)
at present, are expected to grow to about Kb23.9 million ($57 million) during
the same period.
viii.     To achieve its growth objectives, IDB forecasts an operations
program averaging K16.5 million (US$15.5 million) p.a. for the next three



- iii -
years to be supported by increasing overseas and local funds as well as an
expanded staff base. However, to ensure that appropriate demand for its
industrial assistance grows in Kenya, IDB has adopted two strategies to be
implemented by December 31, 1977: one, to establish a unit to assist the
development of new, medium-sized Kenyan enterprises and two, to recruit an
in-house Economist who would assist IDB's dialogue with Government to promote.
industrial policies most conducive toward encouraging industrial investment
and growth. IDB would also increase its impact on the sector by financing as
much as 13% (up from 8% in the past) of Kenya's annual industrial investment.
ix.       IDB is a well-managed and creditworthy borrower for a Bank loan of
US$20.0 million equivalent to fulfill part of its foreign exchange resource
needs through FY-1980. The proposed loan to IDB should be made substantially
on the same terms as Loans 946-KE and 1148-KE; however, recognizing IDB's good
appraisal quality and sound financial condition, its individual project free
limit should be raised from $400,000 equivalent to $600,000 equivalent, with
an aggregate free-limit of $4.0 million. The maximum debt-to-equity ratio
should be increased from 3:1 to 4:1. The full foreign exchange risks from the
loan should be passed on to IDB's borrowers. IDB will continue to serve as an
investor for Government's account at no risk to itself under the terms des-
cribed in paragraphs 4.20 - 4.21. The Bank will continue to serve as the
Executing Agency for IDB's.two UNDP-financed technical assistance posts.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Development Bank Ltd. (IDB) was established in 1973
as a result of joint efforts by the Bank, the Government of Kenya, and the
Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) to assist in the
development of the manufacturing sector by providing equity and term finance
to mainly medium- and large-scale enterprises. The Bank supported IDB's
establishment through providing it in 1973 with a loan of US$5 million, now
nearly totally disbursed. A second Bank loan of US$10 million made in 1975
is expected to be fully committed around June 1977. IFC has also assisted
five industrial ventures in Kenya totalling US$37 million, which included a
recent US$2 million loan to the Kenya Commercial Bank for on-lending to small
and medium-sized businesses.
1.02      Manufacturing, which has been growing rapidly at 8% until 1975, is
possibly the most dynamic economic sector in Kenya in the long run. However,
it will have to improve its resource utilization and reduce its heavy import
dependence in favor of more domestic resource-based production and exports.
The Government is presently reformulating its industrial policy to meet these
objectives and has been assisted in doing so by the Bank.
1.03      To support manufacturing development in that evolving policy frame-
work, the Government has requested additional assistance to IDB from the Bank.
At the same time, it has also requested Bank support for the promotion and
development of small-scale industry through assistance to the Kenyan Indus-
trial Estates, a subsidiary of ICDC. Both projects were jointly appraised in
November 1976. This report appraises IDB and recommends a Bank loan of US$20
million, whose main objectives are:
(a)  to provide term financing in suitable terms to medium-
and large-scale manufacturing projects in Kenya that have
been well-conceived on economic, financial, and technical
grounds; and
(b)  to maintain and improve upon the momentum generated to
date in establishing IDB as a major industrial develop-
ment finance institution and to enhance its ability to
carry out its near-term strategies in the framework of
Kenya's evolving industrial strategy (para. 6.01).
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
The Economy _/
2.01      Over the decade following independence in 1963, the economy of
Kenya showed remarkable vigor with its GDP increasing at a steady rate
1/   For detailed information on Kenya's economy, please refer to "Current
Economic Position and Prospects of Kenya" (Report No. 1284a-KE of
October 1976).



-2-
averaging 6.6% p.a. Since 1973, however, Kenya has suffered from the effects
of drought, world recession and inflation. Its GDP growth rate dropped to
4.1% in 1974 and to 0.7% in 1975, while inflation was around 16% in 1974 and
20% in 1975. Since Kenya's population of 13.3 million is growing at 3.5%
p.a., the income per capita has stagnated in real terms between 1973 and
1975, amounting to US$220 in current terms by 1975. In agriculture, the
major sector with 31% of GDP, the recession was aggravated by adverse weather
and growth fell from a past average rate of 4.5% p.a. to 1.6% in 1974 and
-0.1% in 1975. By contrast the smaller manufacturing sector (14% of GDP) has
weathered the recession with less ill effects; the growth rate in manufactur-
ing, averaging 8% p.a. until 1973, slowed down to 5.3% in 1974 and 4% in
1975. In 1976, economic recovery took place with total GDP growth at 5-6%
and inflation down to about 10%.
2.02      In February 1975, the Government formulated an action program to
adjust its development objectives and policies under the 1974-78 Development
Plan to the serious balance of payments constraint which had become a struc-
tural feature of Kenya's economy. Emphasis was put on channelling invest-
ments into the most productive and quickly yielding uses, in particular into
appropriate import substitution and export promotion. The Government looks
increasingly upon the industrial sector as an important vehicle, along with
agriculture, for restructuring the economy and achieving once again rapid
growth and development.
2.03      Industrial Development until 1973.  Between 1964 and 1973, the man-
ufacturing sector grew rapidly at 8% per year, owing to political stability,
Government policies which encouraged domestic and foreign investment, and
prospects of a wider regional market in East Africa. The sector is still
relatively small (para. 2.01). Within the policy framework set by the
Government, private entrepreneurs are free to choose the sub-sectors they
want to invest in; the sector has received considerable inputs of foreign
investments and expertise. The Government often participates in larger
companies by shareholding and board representation. Most industrial enter-
prises belong to the modern sector and are located in urban areas. Enter-
prises wholly-owned and managed by Kenyans are still few and more often found
in small industries or even outside the modern sector.
2.04      At independence, Kenya - like many developing countries - gave
high priority to rapid industrialization. It created an environment which
attracted mainly import substitution industries, especially those producing
final consumer goods. Rapid growth ensued, but as the sector expanded it
became clear that it was not providing all the hoped-for results. Mtanufac-
turing required large investments per unit of output, but failed to create
employment to absorb the growing labor force at the same pace as it expanded;
the sector showed a high import dependency, which reduced the foreign ex-
change savings of import substitution, and did not add much to the range of
Kenya's traditional exports. With regard to capital goods and spare parts,
Kenya remained almost completely dependent on imports and it was heavily
dependent on imports for intermediate goods and raw materials. By importing
most of the last category instead of using more domestic resources, industry
also failed to boost demand for Kenyan agricultural products.



-3-
The Manufacturing Sector
2.05      Manufacturing at present provides wage employment to about 100,000
people, which represents more than 12% of wage employment in the formal sec-
tor, but still affects only a small fraction of the active population, esti-
mated at 6.4 million. The recession has restrained the growth of investments
in manufacturing over the recent years. From 1972 to 1975, the annual capital
formation remained constant at about K130 million in the manufacturing sector
while it continued growing in the whole economy at an average rate of 12% p.a.
in current prices.
2.06      Manufacturing production totalled Kh102 million in 1975 - a 4%
increase over 1974. The petroleum and chemicals, and food processing sub-
sectors were the main contributors (27% and 25% respectively) followed by
textiles (7.5%), paper and printino (7.4%), equipment and machinery (7.1%)
and beverages and tobacco (6%). Production in 1975, as compared to the quan-
tity indices of 1974, showed the largest increases in paper (60%), printing
(8%), textiles (15%), non-metallic minerals (7%), and the major declines in
leather products (-24%) and in rubber products (-15%). Output in the other
inajor subsectors remained stable during 1975. In spite of the poor perfor-
mance of agriculture, food processing showed some recovery (2%) following
large gains in the canning of fruits, vegetables and fish.
2.07      Overall performance of the manufacturi- , sector during the first
six months of 1976 has been encouraging. The production index for this
period was about 7% higher than for the comparable period in 1975. However,
employment in the sector increased by only 3%. The largest subsector in-
creases were achieved in the production of paper (40%), rubber (40%), and
metal products (50%). The food industries increased slightly, with the
largest outputs recorded by meat, flour and bread. Sugar produictioui was
down from high peaks in 1973. Production of beverages, tobacco, textiles,
footwear and chemicals also registered small gains, while petroleum prod-
ucts, non-electrical machinery, both areas with high import components,
declined.
Government's Manufacturing Policies
2.08      The Government has been placing high priority on industrialization.
To encourage local and foreign investment in the sector, it has established
a set of incentives including investment allowance, free repatriation abroad
of capital invested and profits, and zero or low import duties on imports ofr
capital goods and raw materials. Newly established industries can obtain
tariff protection and import licensing to protect them in initial production
years. These policies have aimed at encouraging import substitution within
the domestic market and exports to the East African Comnmunity (EAC) market
under the protection of the common EAC import tariff. However, Tanzania and
Uganda no longer offer the same good market prospects because of their
economic slowdown and/or the establishment of parallel national industries,
while the most obvious opportunities for import substitution within Kenya
have been exhausted.



-4-
Change in Industrial Development Strategy
2.09      The 1974-78 Development Plan recognized the need for a change in
industrialization policies. The more obvious import substitution possibil-
ities were already covered, and until purchasing power in the agricultural
sector could be increased, domestic demand would be rather limited; future
dynamic growth would depend on exports to other African countries and proba-
bly mostly to developed countries. This required the promotion of efficient
industries which could compete on price and quality grounds in world markets.
2.10      Therefore, the framework of trade policies and price incentives
needed to be changed; in particular, the bias against export-oriented indus-
tries and in favor of import-substitution industries had to be eliminated.
More attention would have to be given to linkages between industry and
agriculture. In addition, small- and medium-scale industries deserved more
encouragement, since they are better placed to use domestic materials, are
less dependent on imports and require less capital per unit of output than
large-scale industries. Better use of existing capacity and choice of ap-
propriate technology would also help to make optimum use of Kenya's resource
endowments.
2.11      Selective Steps in Implementation.  The world inflation including
rising oil prices in 1974 turned Kenya's long-term foreign exchange limita-
tions into an acute problem requiring action. Kenya would have to develop
a growth pattern with a permanently lower import dependence. But domestic
inflation and recession followed the international upheavals and because many
Kenyan industries already showed a drop in output and employment, the Govern-
ment did not introduce comprehensive changes which would have aggravated the
recession; instead, some selective measures were introduced which formed
important components of a changed strategy. They included an export compen-
sation of 10% on the value of exports, a devaluation of the Kenya shilling by
14% along with the Ugandan and Tanzanian shillings and the introduction of
import duties on previously duty-free capital goods and raw materials. The
recent request to the Bank for assistance in the promotion and development of
small Kenyan enterpreneurs, who tend to rely less on imports than medium and
large-scale enterprises, is also a demonstration of this new strategy.
2.12      Need for Further Action.  The Bank has had a continuous dialogue
with the Government on industrial policies, including the use of consultants
advising the Government on industrial policy issues. The decisions taken by
the Government in 1975 and 1976, and the future policy measures under serious
consideration are well in line with the Bank's thinking regarding future
orientation of Kenya's industrial strategy. The Government is expected to
further stress greater reliance on domestic resources, employment generation
and export orientation.
2.13      Following its new policy orientation, the Government is considering
at first specific measures related to more rigorous evaluation of industrial



--
- 5 -
-ojects, better capacity utilization, and export promotion. Fuller utili-
7ae on cf capacity is seen as an immediate way to increase employment and
production in existing industries with little capital outlay. Another goal
is to ensure that, in addition to financial analysis, all new industrial
investments are appraised with special attention being placed on the economic
contribution to the country and the foreign exchange benefits. Through its
significant participation in IDB, ICDC (and KIE), and its 25% share in the
Development Finance Company of Kenya - DFCK (para. 3.04), the Government can
insure in particular that its policy goals are reflected in decisions taken by
these development bailks on financing industrial projects. In addition, the
Industrial Survey and Promotion Center (ISPC) (para. 2.14) may be used as a
suitable channel for integrating the Government's industrial strategy during
the preparation of new industrial projects.
2.14      The Industrial Survey and Promotion Center (ISPC).  The ISPC was
established in 1970 as an agency of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to
identify, develop and evaluate new projects and, when possible, assist in
their implementation. Initially devoted to promoting labor intensive and
small-scale projects, ISPC later focussed on preparing larger industrial
projects. A major task of the center will be to accelerate project imple-
mentation by providing project ideas and possibly feasibility studies of
projects to the development finance institutions such as IDB, DFCK, and ICDC.
However, thus far, this function has only been carried out to a limited
extent. Other possible tasks would be the economic evaluation of projects
submitted to the New Projects Committee (NPC) 1/ and undertaking sub-sectoral
studies. The agency's effectiveness has been somewhat undermined by the
uneven quality of its reports which has resulted in its inability to win the
confidence of the Ministry and major financial institutions in the country.
Its staff now include 15 local professionals iacluding the Director and two
expatriates (an econiomist and an engineer); two more expatriate posts remain
vacant. UNDP, which has financed the experts provided by UNIDO, is currently
reviewing with the Government the desirability of continuing its support,
and, if so, the appropriate level of assistance. It is expected that the
review will result in a stronger future role for ISPC, accompanied by greater
emphasis on those sub-sectoral evaluations that can lead to identification of
new project possibilities.
III. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 2/
3.00      For a developing country, Kenya has a well-developed financial net-
work owing to its openness to private sector initiative and a Central Bank
which has not unduly restricted the growth of such a network. Financial
institutions operating in the industrial sector include thirteen commercial
banks, three development banks in addition to the East African Development
Bank (EADB), a small stock exchange, and a number of life insurance, housing
1/   Members of NPC:  Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Permanent Secretary
is Chairman), Ministry of Finance, IDB, ICDC, DFCK, and other interested
Government agencies.
2/   The current financial policies are described in Annex 14.



-6-
finance, hire purchase companies and other non-bank financiai institutions.
The Government owns 100% of Kenya's largest commercial bank and holds
participations in others. While commercial banks have provided signifi-
cant amounts of credit to the modern industrial sector primarily as short-
term money for working capital purposes, they have not provided term financ-
ing in the quantities needed in the economy. To fill this gap, there are
three development banks - all with Government participations - in addition
to the EADB, that also assist in Government's priority areas such as agro-
processing, manufactured exports, and small-scale enterprises.
The Stock Exchange
3.01      The Nairobi Stock Exchange has 5 members and approximately 60
companies registered, half of whose securities are traded regularly. Most
issues are common shares with several preference and debenture issues also
traded. Registered Kenyan firms are mostly those who have maintained a
policy of steady dividend payments; current dividend yields range from 6% to
21% per annum with only a few speculative issues yielding more. The index
of share prices on the Stock Market (January 1974 = 100) rose from 176.7
at the end of 1974 to 197.7 at the end of 1975.
3.02      The Stock Exchange- is still not a major source of industrial fi-
nancing. Despite periodic attempts to broaden the scope of the market, no
new issues have been floated during the last two years. The volume of busi-
ness has declined considerably over the past three years partly due to the
introduction of a capital gains tax in June 1975, and the combined effects
of recession and inflation on real growth, demand and private savings.
Commercial Banks
3.03      Thirteen commercial banks continue to operate in Kenya of which
three are Government owned and the remainder are foreign controlled. Kenya
Commercial Bank (KCB), the largest bank in Kenya, is now wholly owned by the
Government. The two next largest banks in the country are the British-owned
Barclays and Standard Banks. While commercial banks occasionally make med-
ium- to longer-term loans and equity investments through their subsidiaries,
they are primarily engaged in providing short-term finance of less than one
year to manufacturing, agriculture, commerce, and import-export. One of the
main reasons why the Government has participated financially in commercial
banking, particularly through the KCB, has been to influence the direction of
overall lending operations, aimed particularly at establishing standards for
increased commercial bank lending in agriculture, small-scale enterprises and
other priority activities in the manufacturing sector. An IFC project to
assist in the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises
is using KCB as a channel. IFC has provided $2 million which will be matched
in part by a similar contribution in local currency from KCB.
Development Finance Institutions
3.04      The number of development finance institutions currently in Kenya,
while numerous, do not pose any problem of overduplication. In addition to
EADB which is not aggressively pursuing new Kenyan projects, the Industrial



-7-
and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC), assisted by its subsidiary
the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), is re-directing its efforts more towards
its original objectives of supporting smaller-scale commercial and industrial
enterprises and Kenyanizing the manufacturing and commercial sectors, now
that its former subsidiary, the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) is well-
established. In fact, IDB is becoming an increasingly important factor in
the formulation and implementation of a manufacturing strategy, diversifying
into those sub-sectors considered to be of highest priority (textiles, chemicals,
and foodstuffs). While the foreign-owned Development Finance Company of Kenya
(DFCK) directs its ai:tention to the same medium- to large-scale industrial.
Oti-.erprises as IDB, its serious resource constraints have caused it to play
a less active role than it would have liked. However, despite this fact,
DFCK has brought in through its overseas shareholders valuable incremental
resources to Kenya and has a very good working relationship with IDB, with
whom it antic tpati's more joint project appraisal and financing activities.
3.05      Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC).  ICDC was
established as a statutory corporation in 1955 to promote and assist commer-
cial activities, with further ernphAsis on transferring businesses owned by
non-Kenyans info Kenyan hands.  Its activities have grown rapidly in recent
years, and it now holds assets exceeding Kn24 million.
3.06      ICDC's total assets are 63% in loans and 28% in equity investments.
About 70% of ICDC's total loan portfolio, which amounted to about 'rK'15.0
million in 1975, was related to small-scale enterprises with the remaining
lending going to subsidiary co,l'ipaiies (20%) and medium- and large-scale
enterprises (10%). Specifically, the largest lending categories concerned
property, representing 29% of loan portfolio (including the purchase of non-
Kenyan owned holdings to help launch Kenyan businesses), commercial loans
(26%) to African industrialists and traders, and loans to subsidiary com-
panies (20%). ICDC lends at 9-1/2%-10-1/2% depending on the nature of the
operation, up to 70%-75% of total project cost. Its maximum commitment is
Ksh 250,000 for commercial loans, Ksh 800,000 for the purchase of existing
or new enterprises, and Ksh 300,000 for property loans.
3.07      ICDC has shareholdings in 56 companies including subsidiaries,
which account for 28% of its total assets. Its two largest holdings are in
the IDB (Kbl,040,000 or a 26% share) and the Development Finance Company of
Kenya (KL500,000 or a 25% share). ICDC received 55% of its funding directly
from Government, 22% from local commercial banks and the U.S. Eximbank, 12%
from capital and reserves, 9% from loans of the Federal Republic of Germany
and the remaining 2% from other bilateral sources.
3.08      In the past a significant proportion of ICDC's resources were
directed to larger- and medium-scale industrial financing, but ICDC is
now re-emphasizing assistance to the small-scale sector and Kenyanization
of manufacturing and commerce since IDB is established.



-8-
3.09      An important vehicle for promoting small-scale industrial devel-
opment and Kenyanization is the Kenyan Industrial Estates Ltd. (KIE), a wholly
owned subsidiary of the ICDC. The KIE was established to promote African
small-scale enterprises by providing infrastructure, technical services and
credit (for machinery and equipment), mainly through the creation of indus-
trial est;ttes. Financing for entrepreneurs has been extended at 8% to 8-1/2%
p.a. over 8 years including 1-2 years' grace. Furthermore, shop or factory
spaces have been leased to estate participants at highly concessionary terms.
Although it has not yet developntd as a fully effective technical and financial
intermediary, KIE is the only institution concerned with all aspects of
small-scale enterprise dlevelopment. Financial and technical support for its
projects have come mainly from the ICDC, and from bilateral donors (Sweden,
Denmark and the Federal Republic of Germany). KIE's assets (KI62.1 million in
1975) almost doubled between 1974 and 1975. The Bank has recently appraised a
project for assisting small-scale enterprises and which would focus on improv-
ing and strengthening KIE's programn, both on and off industrial estates. A
major operation of KIE has been the establishment of four Rural Industrial
Development Centers (RIDC) aimed at improving the operations of rural artisans
and encouraging the creation of new enterprises. In addition to the RIDC's,
new workshop clusters will be erected in an effort to organize the prodletion,
operations and marketing of artisans.
3.10      Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK).  DFCK was set up in
1963 for promoting and finalciLg muedium- to large-scale industrial projects.
Its share capital (Kb2 million) is held, at 25% each, by three overseas
development corporations - CDC (U.K.), DEG (Federal Republic of Germany), FMO
(Holland) 1/, and ICDC. At the end of 1975, DFCK's total resources amounted
to Ki5.6 million, Investments amounting to K64.9 million at the end of 1975
(Kb61.6 million equity and Kh3.3 million in loans) are well diversified in
agro-industries, manufacturing, tourism, textile projects. DFCK's relations
with other lending institutions have been good; it has, in particular,
participated in numerous cooperative ventures with the IDB.
3.11      East African Development Bank (EADB).  Established in 1968 with
headquarters in Kampala, Uganda, the EADB has a share capital of Kh6.5 mil-
lion which is held in equal portions of 31% by the three Governments, with
the remainder distributed among several foreign institutions. As of June 30,
1976, the distribution of cumulative approvals since inception was 35% Uganda,
34% Tanzania and 31% Kenya, reflecting the principle in EADB's charter of
favoring resource transfers to the less developed of the member countries.
However, cumulative disbursements showed a bias toward Kenya because of the
more rapid implementation of the projects in that country. The resources of
1/   Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer
Wirtschaftliche Zusararqenarbeit (DEG), and Financierings Maatschappij
voor Ontwikkeling n.v. (FMO).



-9-
foreign exchange (thus far providing K619 million) have been the IBRD with
two loans (the most recent of which was approved February 3, 1976 - Loan No.
1204-EA, US$15 million), Swedish aid (SIDA) with two loans and the ADB with
one loan.  Local funds of more than Kh5 million have also been made available.
By mid-1976, the EADB had uncommitted resources amounting to Ki6.4 million
equivalent in foreign exchange and K$1.6 million in local funds. In view of
the uncertainties regarding the future of the Community and its own status,
EADB has not recently aggressively pursued new investment opportunities.
Nevertheless, the current pipeline includes seventy projects under various
stages of review. EADB should have adequate resources to meet foreign
exchange resource requirements until late 1977.
3.12      Interest Rates.  Interest rates in the country are fixed by the
Central Bank. Commercial banks' deposit rates range from 5%-5.9% while
lending rates are 8% plus add-on charges, bringing the effective rate to 10%.
Building sochiries, merchant banks and Hire-Purchase companies are allowed
higher deposit and lending rates (Annex 15). Development banks charge be-
tween 10%-12% on long-term funds, with IDB operating at the high end of the
spectrum lending at 11%-12% beginning iet 1977. Almost all foreign exchange
loans from IDB and DFCK (and EADB) pass the exchange risk on to sub-borrow-
ers. Alternately, in the case of lending to smaller Kenyan-owned enter-
prises mainly throtugh the ICDC and KCB, the Government has demonstrated a
willingness to assume all or part of the foreign exchange risks.  In general,
the interest rate structure in Kenya has tended to be on the lower side Ln
the past. However, given the projected decrease in inflation rates to below
10% in the coming years, the prevailing interest rates on term finance are
acceptable.
IV. THE COMPANY
Back&round
4.01      The establishment of IDB was the result of joint efforts by the
Bank, the Government, and ICDC which began in 1970. The intention at that
time was to create a new financial instittttion which had Government's full
backing to concentrate specifically on larger industrial financing while ICDC
concentrated increasingly on the SSE and commercial sectors. IDB was incor-
porated under the Companies Act in 1973 as a limited liability company to
assist in the development and expansion of medium- to large-scale industrial
enterprises through the provision of long-term loans, equity investments, and
guarantees.
Share Capital
4.02      IDB's initial share capital of K62 million was increased to K64.0
million in 1975, with nearly 60% of the increase paid-in at the end 1976.
IDB expects its authorized share capital of Kh4.0 million to be fully paid
in by December, 1977. This share capital increase led to the introduction of



- 10 -
two new shareholders - the Kenya National Assurance Company (KNAC) and the
National Bank of Kenya-which resulted in the following change in the share-
holding pattern (par value per share at Khl):
Former                    New
K6 Million  % Holding   KL Million  % Holding
Government                         0.98         49.0         1.96         49.0
ICDC (100% Government-owned)       1.02         51.0         1.04         26.0
KNAC     ""                                       -          0.50         12.5
NBK      ""                                       -          0.50         12.5
2.00       100.0         4.00        100.0
4.03      To further expand IDB's equity base and to allow it to raise the
maximum it could invest in any single enterprise, IDB's shareholders have
agreed to increase their holdings pro rata and raise IDB's share capital
base from Kb4.0 million to Kh6.0 million between 1978 - 1981.  The Govern-
ment and IDB have agreed to ensure the full allotment and subscription
of this capital increase by December 31, 1977, and that the schedule of
payments would meet IDB's operational requirements.
Board of Directors
4.04      With IDB's first capital increase, the Board size was expanded
from seven to nine with the appointment of representatives from KNAC and NBK.
IDB's shareholders have also appointed a new Chairman, Mr. B. M. Gecaga
who is a prominent Kenyan businessman and a member of IDB's Board since its
inception. He takes over from Mr. M. Wamae, Executive Director of ICDC who
remains on the Board. The rest of IDB's Board is made up of the Permanent
Secretaries of the Ministries of Finance and Planning and of Commerce and
Industry (who areé normally represented by their alternates - the Underfec-
retary for Finance and Deputy Secretary for Commerce, respectively), two
other experienced and knowledgeable businessmen, and the Managing Director
of IDB (Annex 1).
4.05      To date, IDB's Board has played an active role in overseeing all
aspects of IDB's activities including detailed review of projects, budgets,
and staffing. It has been meeting every six weeks and has maintained a good
attendance record.  With the appointment of a Chairman from the private
business sector and addition of two new Directors from commercial banking
and insurance, the Board's role will be further enhanced.
Management
4.06      The present Managing Director of IDB, Mr. Joseph Gatuiria, has served
with IDB since 1973 when he began as Chief of Operations. Prior to joining
IDB, Mr. Gatuiria was Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning.



- 11 -
Since he became IDB's Managing Director in 1974, Mr. Gatuiria has assembled a
solid nucleus of competent staff, established IDB's reputation on the Kenyan
investment scene, developed good relations with Government and the business
and financial community which enabled IDB to attract a wide range of project
possibilities, and tapped foreign and domestic sources of funds.
4.07      The recently-promoted Chief of Operations, Mr. Christopher Kamau,
joined IDB in 1974 as a Senior Projects OEficer after gaining development
banking and cominerc ia, experience in other institutions in Kenya.  The
ChieF oF Operations' wide supervisory responsibilities include ensuring
(i) sound progress in meeting operational targets and (ii) the coordination
between the appraisal and supervision work; Mr. Kamau is well-prepared for
this position in view of his extensive development banking experience and
familiaritv with IDB'S modus operandi. In addition to the above duties,
Mr. Kamau will be overseeing the development of the new Project Advisory
Services (para. 4.18).
4.08      The Chief Accountant, Mr. James Muguiyi, is a capable officer
whose Department was constrained by a shortage of staff. As a result,
certain internal operating procedures related to commitment and disburse-
ment were not systematically followed (para. 7.02). With the recent
recruitment of an Assistant Chief Accountant and a senior accountant
(para. 4.17), however, Mr. Muguiyi has been able to devote the necessary
time to improve the understanding and implementation of such procedures.
The staff increase has also enabled the Departraent to spend more time
anticipating difficulties before they arise.
Organization and Staff
4.09      IDB's organizational structure has remained fairly similar over
the years, with the nucleus consisting of the Investigations (Appraisals)
Group and the Accounting Group. More recently, its increase in operations
and the resulting work complexity has necessitated (i) the establishment of
an Investments (Supervision) Division to review IDB's portfolio holdings and
(ii) the recruitment of a Legal Officer to handle C larger portion of the
documentation work that was being undertaken by an external law firm. Also,
the administrative work previously done by the Managing Director with the
Chief Accountant's assistance was delegat(d to an Administrative Assistant.
4.10      Annex 3 shows IDB's new organization plan which adequately provides
for its future activities. A key feature of the organization plan is to
increase staff to a level necessary to strike an optimal balance between IDB's
expanding operations and maintenance of its project quality. In addition, the
plan creates a separate Legal Services Section, a full-time Investment Analyst
post (for training), a Chief Establishment (Administrative) Officer post to
oversee IDB's physical facilities need and various support services, and an
Economist to advise on industrial policy and project analysis; another major
addition to the new organiztion will be the Project Advisory Services unit
(para. 4.18). The number of professional staff positions in IDB is 30, of
which the majority involve operational activities.



- 12 -
4.11      One of IDB's strengths is its success in staffing top positions
with able Kenyans. Top management is fully Kenyan; all Division-head level
posts are held by Kenyans, with the exception of the Manager of the Project
Advisory Services (P.A.S.) Division who will have a large training respon-
sibility. In IDB's proposed organization, only 4-5 members of its staff of
30 professionals will be expatriates, all of whom hold substantial training
responsibilities and will be expected to identify their counterpart succes-
sors within 2-3 years, if not earlier. Through promotion of its existing
Kenyan staff, IDB recently filled the vacant posts of the Assistant Chief
Accountant, Senior Project Officers (Investigations), and the Manager of the
Investments Division.
4.12      Non-Kenyan Staff.  At present, two expatriates are on IDB's or-
ganization - the Engineering Advisor (UNDP-financed) and the Manager of
Investments (ODM). Both are doing well and are training their counterparts.
A well-qualified candidate for the Investment Analyst post (for training)
has been recruited for work beginning April, 1977. The remaining positions
- an Economist (ODM) to, inter alia, assist IDB's emerging role as a sig-
nificant contributor to,Government's industrial policy formulation and to
enhance IDB's economic analysis of projects, and a manager (possibly UNDP)
for the P.A.S. Division are expected to be recruited by December 31, 1977.
4.13      Investigations Division.  This division is the nucleus of IDB and
is headed. In addition to its major task of appraising projects, the division
- with a complement of four professionals - undertakes project work ranging
from identification/preparation of new projects to appraisal.
4.14      The quality of IDB's appraisals continues to be good, despite
substantial increases in its operations level (para. 5.01). However, the
doubling of its volume of operations between 1975 and 1976 has imposed a
strain on the Investigations Division which the new staffing program is
alleviated (para. 4.10). The "issues paper" procedure introduced to flag
major problems to the management and staff, and the preliminary Board papers
presented to highlight potential policy issues to the Board have proved to be
useful. Detailed evaluation of the financial viability of projects is being
conducted regularly - often accompanied by sensitivity tests; however, econo-
mic evaluation work has become more erratic recently because of the heavy
workload and the arrival of new staff not fully familiar with the concept.
The new Investment Analyst and t4e Economist should be helpful in systemati-
cally training new personnel and emphasizing the proper use of economic
analysis. The arrival of the Engineering Advisor in 1976 has bolstered IDB's
technical evaluation capability.
4.15      Investments Division.  Reflecting the increasing number of its proj-
ects now in full operation, IDB established this new unit to undertake sys-
tematic supervision, expedite project implementation, and assist the Investiga-
tions Division in anticipating implementation difficulties early in the proj-
ect cycle. Good use of feedback from older projects to assist the new is also
proving to be a useful contribution to the Investigations Division. The unit
is headed by an experienced expatriate Investment Manager, Mr. E. J. Neal,
who has introduced improved procedures for recordkeeping, disbursement, and



- 13 -
general project monitoring; the work of this division has already had an
impact on improving procedural ambiguities that recently plagued the rapidly
growing institution. Mr. Neal is assisted by an able Kenyan Senior Project
Officer who is expected to replace him during the latter half of 1977.
4.16      Accounting and Administration.  The Chief Accountant, Mr. J. Muguiyi,
is assisted by a newly-recruited assistant Chief Accountant, Senior Accountant,
and two accountants on the accounts side, and an Establishment Officer and two
assistants on the administration side. Despite the increasing complexity of
IDB's accounting work brought on by its various lines of credit and expanding
portfolio, the accounting work is proceeding satisfactorily. Cooperative
arrangements with the new Investments Division are also being developed. An
experienced Chief Establishment Officer is being recruited to relieve the
Chief Accountant of his former management responsibilities related to physi-
cal facilities.
4.17      Project Advisory Services (PAS) Division.  The objective of this
new division is to fill the increasing need within Kenya to provide short-term
managerial, accounting, and other technical advice to new entrepreneurs, par-
ticularly Kenyan, who otherwise possess the necessary capital and promoter
initiative. The need for such a service became apparent from IDB's own
experience (i.e., it has already provided such service on an ad hoc basis to
a number of its clients) and Government recognizes that such a service, which
does not now exist, is clearly necessary in the country. The intention at
this time is for IDB to assist, for a fee, medium-sized Kenyan enterprises
(viz., KL100,000-500,000 project cost) particularly to help new ones establish
themselves and to improve the likelihood of their success. The new division
is expected to be initially staffed in 1977 by an experienced manager (possi-
bly an expatriate) and a Project Officer. While the plan is to run the
service on at least a break-even basis with fees charged to the benefi-
ciaries, IDB expects to initially tap multilateral or bilateral assistance
for the manager's post. The plan for the PAS as proposed by IDB begins at
a modest level and is appropriately conceived.
Policies and Lending Terms
4.18      IDB is guided by its Statement of Policy (Annex 2) which was pre-
pared and subsequently revised in later years in consultation with the Bank.
The Statement conforms in all significant respects to policy statements
adopted by other development finance companies; it has proved to be a very
useful and practical set of guidelines which IDB has been able to follow
quite closely. A few changes in the original Statement were introduced with
the Bank's agreement in 1975 to give IDB added flexibility. These changes:
(i) permitted IDB, in exceptional cases, to finance projects below the stated
minimum size of KM50,000; and (ii) where similarly justified, permit ex-
ceptions to the maximum financing limit of 50% of a project's total capital
cost particularly for expansion projects.
4.19      IDB's Policy Statement currently restricts its debt-to-equity ratio
from exceeding 3:1. Projections show that, at the estimated expansion rate,
IDB will exceed the 3:1 ratio during 1978. Given (i) IDB's need to increase



- 14 -
its level of borrowings to finance its projected lending programs and (ii)
IDB's plans to embark on a limited scale in guarantee 1/ operations, as well
as IDB's good operating performance and sound financial condition, it was
agreed that IDB's debt-to-equity ratio would be raised to 4:1.
4.20      Managed Fund.  The concept of Managed Fund was agreed under the
second Bank Loan (1148-KE) whereby IDB would manage certain large investments
on account of the Government and at no financial risk to itself. In practice,
management of large loans under this arrangement has been straightforward,
but the administration of large equity investments (financed from Government
funds) has proven to be more complex to implement given the uncertainty as to
the form in which Government wished IDB to hold the equity investments (i.e.,
in IDB's or the Government's name), the degree of IDB's autonomy in project
selection and the possible financial exposure to IDB, were it to act as a
shareholder for some particularly large investments that dwarf its normal
operations. It was agreed that IDB should undertake equity investments, as
well as loans under the Managed Fund-type arrangement to increase its overall
impact on industrial financing in Kenya. It was also agreed that the Govern-
ment and the IDB would conclude agreements by July 15, 1977 on the terms under
which funds would be made available to IDB to undertake equity investments
that would be satisfactory to the Bank.
4.21      It is expected that the proposal for handling future equity invest-
ments under this arrangement-would be to create a new class of IDB shares to
be called "Class B Stock" (as distinct from regular shares to be called "Glass
A Stock"), which would be financed through the funds made available by the
Government to IDB on Government-assisted investments. Both classes of stock
would enjoy similar dividend rights, if any are paid, but "Class B Stock"
would not hold any voting rights.  IDB's investments financed by "Class
B Stock" would be required to comply with the same investment criteria that
would normally apply to IDB's normal operations as set out in IDB's Policy
Statement. In the interim, no new equity investments would be undertaken by
IDB on this Managed Fund basis.  Furthermore, to avoid excessive IDB involve-
ment in Managed Fund activities, it was agreed that- (i) the total number of
new projects in which IDB makes such investments and in respexrt of which IDB
acts as an agent in administering a Government 1oan would not exceed one-
third of the total number of new projectsw in which 1DB makes investment; (loan
or equity) out of its general resources in any. fiscal year; and (ii)' the
aggregate of Government assisted investmemts, would- not exceed' one-half t;he
IDB's unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves; Less the aggregate
of paid-in "Class B Stock".
4.22      On-lending Terms..  IDB's loans to date have carried interest rates
between 9.5% - 11.0% p.a. To reflect IDB's costsa of funds and prevailing
rates in Kenya, IDB agreed with the Bank's recommendations and has begun-
charging 11.0% p.a. on all foreign-currency dominated loans and 12.0% p.a. on
local currency loans.  This represents the upper range-. IDB can; realistiic-ally
charge and remain competitive. In addition to interest, IDB assesses a 1.0%
commitment fee on undisbursed balances and a progressive appraisal fee of 1/4
to 1% on the loan amount, depending on its size. Such additional charges on
1/   Guarantees are considered as debt in the Policy Statement's definition
of debt-to-equity ratio.



- 15 -
loans are expected to bring IDB's effective spread between 2.5-3.0% for a
typical loan, which is satisfactory. At present, IDB is passing on the full
foreign exchange risk to its sub-borrowers, and expects no problem in contin-
uing this practice with the proceeds of the proposed loan. Since inflation
is projected to decrease to below 10% in the coming years, IDB's interest
rates are acceptable.
4.23      IDB's subloan terms have averaged about nine years, with 1 to 2
years' grace period, based on subproject cash flow projections. IDB's
security requirements are normally limited to first charge on the borrowers'
assets, pari passu with other lenders as required.
Procedures
4.24      IDB is doing a satisfactory job in developing project ideas to the
stage where they could be appraised; however, IDB hopes to do more of this
promotional activity in the future with the creation of the PAS unit (para.
4.17) and in cooperation with the ISPC. IDB has good operational manuals,
established procedures, and useful Standing Committees (viz., Management
Committee that reviews policy and other major company matters, Project Ap-
praisal Committee to decide on continuing or dropping further processing of
new project proposals, and Operations Meetings to review the status of day-
to-day project matters, new project possibilities, and review draft papers
to the Board).
4.25      The timely implementation of such procedures, on the other hand,
is sometimes hampered by the crush of work just before Board meeting dates
and the management's occupation with raising new sources of funds. IDB is
taking steps to delegate more implementation responsibility to its middle-
level staff and is stressing the following: (a) existing procedures be more
regularly implemented (including more systematic economic analysis of proj-
ects); (b) project processing be systematized and better coordinated to
allow more regular inputs earlier in the project cycle from specialized staff
(such as the engineer, lawyer, etc.) to better affect project designs; and
(c) senior IDB staff hold more regular meetings with junior staff to en-
courage project feedback so as to effectively anticipate future project
implementation problems.
4.26      Commitment and Disbursement Procedures.  IDB has made good prog-
ress in reducing the lag between Board approval and loan commitment, which
averaged 9.5 months in 1973-1974, to about four months in 1976. The improve-
ment of this former problem area was greatly assisted by the recruitment of
new, specialized staff, such as the Engineer, Lawyer, Investments Manager
and a new Assistant Chief Accountant to assist the Chief Accountant (para.
4.16). No doubt, IDB's increased experience as a development bank is also
an important factor.
4.27      IDB's disbursement procedures are generally satisfactory.  As it
expects to become more involved in financing less experienced medium-sized
Kenyan enterprises with little or no accounting capability of their own, IDB
will need to take greater initiatives in establishing proper documentation
and safeguard procedures. The proposed PAS unit will be helpful in assisting
such enterprises (para. 4.17).



- 16 -
4.28      IDB's review of sub-borrowers' procurement plans has been adequate.
IDB staff takes an active interest in ensuring that sub-borrowers have,
whenever possible, obtained at least three bids on a competitive basis and
regularly inquires about evaluation, sources, and performance guarantees.
IDB sometimes sends in its Engineer or a technical consultant if it is not
satisfied with the promoter's review.
Auditors and Lawyers
4.29      IDB's working relationships with its auditors (Pannell Fitzpatrick
Bellhouse Mwangi & Company) and attorneys (Kaplan & Stratton) have been good.
The past audits including those for 1975 and 1976 have been satisfactory.
The attorneys are working closely with IDB's Legal Officer and have, in the
past, provided informal training support.
V. OPERATIONS AND FINANCE
Operations
5.01      Volume of Operations (Annex 8)
Total Investment: Loan 2/
Number of New                   and Equity (KS million)
Projects Approved 1/   Approved         Committed        Disbursed
1973              2                 0.7               -                -
1974              7                 2.2              1.5              0.7
1975             10 3/              2.8              2.1              1.5
1976             14                 5.3              5.4              3.7
IDB certainly is one of the fastest growing DFCs in Africa. In 1976, the
total of loan and equity approvals increased by 90% over the total of 1975
to reach KE5.3 million or about US$13 million (cf. table above). Equity
approvals of 1976 in particular amounted to 1-1/2 times the sum of equity
approvals from the three previous years, 1973-1975. Since the growth of
industrial investments in Kenya has remained moderate following the oil
crisis, this considerable increase could be attributed mostly to the staff
productivity, the effective resource mobilization and business promotion
efforts by IDB. Despite this significant increase in approvals, IDB has
1/   Net of cancellations.
2/   For comparison, all loans in foreign currencies were valued at the same
exchange rates of November 1976 (US$1 = K60.419).
3/   Exclusive of an equity investment of K6560,000 in "Ken Ren Fertilizers"
managed for the Government.



- 17 -
maintained and actually improved the speed of project processing. The average
lag between approval and commitment has been decreased (para. 4.26) by more
than 50%. In addition, disbursements have begun on 5 out of the 14 projects
approved in 1976. As a result, the cumulative commitments increased from 65%
of approvals at the end of 1975 to nearly 85% at the end of 1976 and cumula-
tive disbursements during that period increased from 40% of approvals to 55%.
This improvement in project processing delays was probably due to management's
increased attention to this area and to the project monitoring initiated by
the new Investment Division. The growth of IDB's operations to the present
level has clearly brought the company to a level of full staff utilization
and sometimes resulted in inadequate attention being placed on some aspects
*of project appraisal. The ratio of loan amounts approved per professional
reached US$710,000 in 1976 for IDB, while the average ratio among African
DFCs was about $500,000 and only exceeds $700,000 for some with more than
eight years' experience. However, the new staffing plan should prevent
the risk of overload and help to preserve the quality of investments in the
future (para. 4.10).
5.02      Project Size.  Among IDB's approvals (Annex 4), the total project
size ranges from Kk,80,000 to KbI9.4 million and averages about K1b3.0 million
(US$7.1 million). Typically, the bigger projects tend to be new enterprises
which are foreign-sponsored and located outside Nairobi and Mombasa; oftkan
these involve the more capital-intensive sectors such as textile, chemicals,
rubber and plastics, Conversely, the small project is typically an expansion
project in Nairobi or Mombasa, with a majority Kenyan ownership, and in the
sectors of engineering and metal processing, machinery, 1/ or fibres and
cordages (bag and rope-making). In 1976, IDB approved a larger propcrtion of
expansion projects. More significantly, approvals of medium-sized projects
with a total cost between Kb2.0 million and Kh5.0 million fell from 35% of
approvals over 1973-1975 to 15% in 1976, which indicated that more investments
were made during 1976 for projects either in the smaller or the larger ranges
(Annex 5). IDB's total contribution (loan and equity) to project cost varies
from 45% for project costs below K6500,000 to 5% for project costs above Kh5
million and averages K11330,000 per ptoject (US$790,000) over all approvals
since inC eption.
5.03      The usual partners of IDB in financing projects, apart from the
other local development finance irt,O-Ji ations (ICDC, DPCK, EADB) and local com-
mercial bankA gapplying overdrafts and working capital (KCB, NBK, Barclays),
also frequently include other international development financiers (DEG,
SIFIDA, Eximbank and IFC). As shown in Annex 5, TDB appears to finance a
larger share of the project costs in those ventures that appear to be par-
ticularly viable on economic and financial grounds. Regarding IDB's Policy
Statement, the 50% limitation on IDB's contribution to the cost of a single
project was relaxed in 1975 to allow for exceptions in the case of expansion
projects. IDB used this ne- flexibility in 1976 for two expansion projects
with contributions of 75% and 65% of total costs. Another clause of the
Policy Statement, which restricts the total investment in a single project
1/   Examples are:  pipes, cans and wires for engineering and metal process-
ing; and vehicle assembly for machinery.



- 18 -
to 20% 1/ of IDB's net worth now appears as an effective constraint: the
approved financing of three major projects already reac.hed that limit in
1976. Thus the second capital increase will come at a much needed time
(1978-1979) to enable IDB to participate more actively in the formulation
and financing of such large-scale industrial developments.
5.04      Sectoral Distribution.  Projects primarily oriented towards import
substitution comprise 75% of the total amount of approvals to date, as against
25% for export oriented and tourism projects (para. 2.04). The distribution
by amount of approvals among economic sectors is well balanced and conforms to
the sectoral evolution within the Kenyan economy: textiles - 30%; rubber and
plastics - 15%; engineering, metal processing and machinery - 15%; food and
beverages - 14%; fibres and cordages - 10%; paper - 6%; mining - 5%; tourism -
5%. According to IDB's 1976 approvals, there appears to be a rapid increase
in textiles and fibres, stabilization in chemical and engineering, and a de-
crease in food, paper, mining and tourism (Annex 5).
5.05      Project Characteristics.  IDB's investments show an increasing and
valuable contribution to urban decentralization and to the Kenyanization of
the industry. Projects under majority Kenyan ownership formed 80% of the
approved amount of 1976, against 55% over the previous period of 1973-1975
(Annex 5). Similarly, projects located outside Nairobi and Mombasa 2/
represented 50% of the amount approved during 1973-1975, but that proportion
increased to 85% among the niew approvals of 1976. According to IDB's project
appraisal, there is also some evidence that the recent projects aproved by
IDB tend to be financially and economically more viable. Among projects for
which estimated internal rates of return were available, the proportion of
projects showing financial returns greater than 25% increased from 40% of the
amount approved during 1973-1975 to 70% in 1976, and the proportion of
projects with economic returns above 15% increased from 55% of the amount
approved during 1973-1975 to over 80% in 1976. In numerous cases, the
economic returns were equal to or greater than the financial returns of the
projects. Also, while some of IDB's recent approvals have been made to fairly
large, capital-intensive projects (para. 2.07), its ability to generate
incremental employment at reasonable costs in Kenya is sound. In fact, its
average investment cost per job of US$25,000 remains comparable to the overall
average observed among other African DFCs.
Portfolio (Annex 4)
5.06      During 1976, the portfolio of loan and equity investments expanded
considerably from KU2.2 million in 10 companies to Kb5.9 million (US$14 mil-
lion) among 24 companies. The total is now divided into 75% of loans to 19
companies and 25% of equity investments in 13 companies. The main character-
istics of approvals discussed earlier (para. 5.02 - 5.05) also hold true for
the portfolio but with a slight lag. In particular, the total portfolio is
well diversified among sectors with a moderate concentration in textiles (27%
in amount), and shows a trend towards non-urban and Kenyan-owned projects.
1/   Equal to KE800,000 at present.
2/   Nairobi and Mombasa hold more than 70% of the urban population of Kenya.



- 19 -
Out of the 24 projects of the portfolio, nearly one-third are in full opera-
tion and, in addition, about one-half will be completed by June 1977.  Only
two projects (5% in amount) are encountering serious problems.  Thus, the IDB
portfolio presents overall a generally good quality.
5.07      Loan Portfolio.  Since IDB's inception, principal repayment on the
first two loans, in paper 1/ and in food processing, was rescheduled by one
and three years respectively due to major revisions in project design and
financing plans; five undisbursed approvals were later cancelled following
promoters' withdrawals, generally due to their inadequate contribution to the
projects both in terms of time and money; and one small sawmill project was
liquidated soon after the first IDB disbursement. The loan fees (viz., ap-
praisal and commitment fees) of the five cancelled projects and the principal
of the sawmill project have been entered as doubtful debts in IDB's account,
but the total loss should not exceed KE20,000 (i.e., 4% of 1976 gross income).
The only arrearage is now the accrued interest from the rescheduled payments
for the paper project 1/, amounting to K1,67,000 (14% of 1976 income), which is
expected to be paid in full by mid-1977. Income from loans (interest and
fees) represented about 12% of the loan portfolio in 1976 and principal repay-
nents from borrowers are expected to begin in 1977. At present prospects for
interest and principal collections are satisfactory.
5.08      Equity Portfolio.  By contrast with the rest of IDB's portfolio,
the equity portion exhibits a higher sectoral concentration:  textiles - 43%,
engineering and machinery - 28%, food and beverages - 17%, and others - 12%.
Recognizing its relative exposure, IDB is now closely monitoring the textile
portion of its portfolio and has undertaken a specific study of the textile
sector. Income from dividends is progressing faster than expected; three
investments yielded KIb29,000 in 1976, which is nearly double that of 1975,
and are expected to maintain the same dividend level in future years. At
present dividend prospects on the equity portfolio appear satisfactory.
Finance
5.09      Profitability.  After minor losses during the two first years,
which had been projected, IDB made its first profit in 1975 and tripled it
in 1976 (Kh57,000 before tax or 2% of average equity). Among its income
sources, IDB's income from operations has gradually displaced short-term
deposits so that it yielded 73% of gross income in 1976; among expenses, the
share of financial charges surpassed administrative expenses for the first
time in 1976 (57% against 39%). In 1976, the return from loans as a per-
centage of average loan portfolio was 11.9% and compared favorably to the
cost of debt averaging 8.6% from all borrowings. The spread between the
interest received from loans and the interest paid for borrowings averaged
2% in the past and is expected to rise to 2.5% beginning in 1977 which
should assure satisfactory profits in the future.
1/   The Panafrican Paper Mills, in which IFC has an investment.



- 20 -
5.10      Financial Position.  IDB's total assets doubled during 1976 to
reach Kih7.8 mllion (US$18.6 million) of which 76% in portfolio (net), and
24% in current assets, mostly short-term deposits (22%). The debt service
coverage, of 1.4 in 1976 is reasonable for a development bank. The debt to
equity ratio, at 1.3:1 in 1976, is increasing rapidly but remains well below
the existing limit of 3:1 set out in IDB's Policy Statement. IDB was also
highly liquid in 1976 as expressed by a current ratio of 18:1. Overall IDB
has managed to carefully control the acceleration of its operations in 1976
and preserved a fundamentally sound financial position.
VI. PROSPECTS
IDB's Strategy
6.01      During its four years' existence, IDB has established a solid
reputation among Kenyan business and financial circles and managed to reach
a fairly efficient scale of operations. Over the next three to five years,
IDB expects to maintain its stress on expanding its level of operations while
sustaining the high quality standard that it has established. IDB has adopted
two near-term strategies which it expects to implement by December 31, 1977.
First, IDB foresees a continuous shortage of qualified Kenyan entrepreneurs
who possess the capital and initiative but lack the specific managerial
experience and know-how needed to launch a successful manufacturing enterprise.
As it anticipates this to become a major bottleneck to the expansion of direct
private Kenyan involvement in the increasingly important manufacturing sector,
IDB will establish a Project Advisory Services (PAS) Unit (para. 4.17) to
assist this segment of the population. Second, lDB recognizes that, given its
increasing experience and knowledge of the sector, it has a responsibility to
contribute to the process that evolves into Governaent industrial policy. As
a first step IDB will recruit an Economist who could begin IDB's preliminary
work in this area.
Forecast Operations
6.02      IDB's pipeline of project possibilities clearly indicates its
potential for a sustained growth of operations. Projects under consideration
trc pcesentation to IDB's Board, which previously amounted to 17 projects at
the end of 1975, now totals over 40 at the end of 1976. In addition, IDB
holds a large waiting list of additional unscreened applications. In the
past most of the new projects originated from such institutions as ICDC or
ISPC (para. 2.14), but recently the NPC (para. 2.14) appears to have become a
major souirce of new projects. Moreover, with IDB's own increasitig reputation,
more than half of the new applications iiow .ome directly from the sponsors
themselves.
6.03      The first 18 projects of IDB's pipeline which have reached an
advanced stage of preparation (Annex 6) total Ki65.4 million, and the distri-
bution of that amount confirms the positive trend towards urban decentrali-
zation and Kenyanization of the industry observed from 1976 operations (para.



- 21 -
5.05; Annex 5); 80% goes to projects located outside Nairobi and Mombasa, as
opposed to a past average of 70% over 1973-1976; and 85% goes to majority
Kenyan owned projects as opposed to a past average of 70%. In addition, the
former trend towards textile concentration appears to be tapering off favor-
ably, since the proportion of textile projects represents only 20% in amount
among the first 18 projects of the pipeline, while it represented 35% of the
amount approved in 1976 (para. 5.04). Three large sugar projects total 35%
of the amount of the 18 projects, but IDB is aware of the possible risk in-
volved in this new concentration after the depression of the world price of
sugar, and it is conducting a study of the Kenyan sugar sector. The current
applications in the pipeline illustrate a general emphasis on manufacturing
based on local raw material. Two out of three applications fall in agro-
industries: food processing (15% by number) mainly aimed at import substi-
tution, leather goods manufacturing (10%) geared to exports, and paper
production for both local and export markets. The textile projects (10%)
depend on locally grown and Tanzanian cotton, except for one using imported
synthetics, and produce yarn, cloth and garments for local sales. The
remaining one-third of the applications are dominated by light manufacturing
involving metal work and chemicals.
6.04      Proiect Advisory Service (PAS).  In the past, 12 projects (30% in
amount) have already required some advisory input from IDB for project manage-
merit and for technical assistance, particularly in engineering, finance and
accountingG Tie current project pipeline confirms that the potential demand
for the proposed P4S is large and growing, and that tbis demand comes es-
sentially from the Kenyan promoters. Among the first 18 projects, IDB's
management indicated seven projects which are expected to need PAS's ser-
vice. These projects are all under Kenyan majority ownership and total 30%
in amoujnt.  In the rest of the pipeline (24 projects), the trend appears to
accentuate further, and up to 14 projects are expected to require major
advisory input.
6.05      Projections of IDB's operations up to 1981 are presented in Annex
8. They are based mainly on the conservative assumption that IDB will in-
crease its total volume of approvals (loan and equify) by 10% per year from
1976 onwards. IDB intends to maintain this projected growth rate, quite
moderate by comparison with the past (para. 5.01), in order to reserve time
and effort for a further consolidation of procedures and for the specializa-
tion and training of junior staff to be recruited. Accord4ngly the total
approvals will grow from KL5.3 million in 1976 to K18.6 million in 1981, and
average Kb7.2 million per annum (US$17 million) between 1977 and 1981. Fol-
lowing with some lag, the total disbursement will a'ierage Kb6.4 million per
annum (US$15 million) over the period 1977-1981, which represents a signif-
icant proportion of about 13% of the total annual manufacturing investment
in Kenya, now estimated to grow on the order of KE50 million p.a. Due to
the limited resource availabiLity in local currency (para. 6.08), the bulk
of the real growth in IDB's lending program is expected to take place in for-
eign exchange loans which should constitute an average of 82% of the funds
disbursed over 1977-1981.



- 22 -
Resource Requirements
6.06      Foreign Exchange.  Annex 9 shows the present and projected re-
source positions of IDB. By the end of 1976 IDB had committed US$15.1
million equivalent in foreign currency loans; and received the two Bank loans
(946-KE and 1148-KE), and loans from DEG, ECGD, and ADB, totalling US$21.9
million; which left an uncommitted surplus of US$6.8 million. Following
IDB's active resouce mobilization, three new loans, totalling up to US$11.8
million equivalent, are expected to become effective in 1977: a second DEG
loan (DM 6 million, 8.85% interest, term of 12 years including 5 years of
grace), a second ECGD loan tied to the purchasing of British equipment (UKb2
million, 7.8% interest, term of 5 years) and a first EIB loan (estimated
amount of US$6 million equivalent, 8% interest).
6.07      The commitments of IDB during the first half of 1977 are expected
to exhaust the uncommitted surplus of US$6.8 million carried over from 1976.
Between mid-1977 to mid-1980, IDB's projected commitments are conservatively
expected to total US$36.1 million in foreign currency of which $11.8 million
would be met by the loans from DEG, EGCD and EIB, thus leaving a resource gap
of US$24.3 million. With the proposed third Bank loan of US$20 million, if
it were to become effective in the second half of 1977, the IDB would be left
witlh a residual gap of US$4.3 million by mid-1980 (Annex 9). IDB does not
anticipate difficulties in~filling this residual gap from overseas sources.
Thus the Bank would be financing a smaller portion of 55% of IDB's future
commitments from mid-1977 to mid-1980, as compared to 68% in the previous
period 1973-1976.
6.08      Local Currency.  In the past IDB's sources of local currency have
been its share capital and nominal amounts of governments grants and, after
the large equity approvals of 1976, IDB keeps only a moderate uncommitted
surplus of Kb655,000 in local currency (Annex 9).  Since the second share
capital replenishment commences only in 1979, IDB plans to start tapping
local lenders during 1977. In the operational projections, a conservative,
but probable, level of Kb150,000 per year has been adopted for these new
local borrowings. According to recent discussions with officials of the
Ministry of Finance, the Government also expects to provide funds either as
grants, quasi-equity, or soft-term loans; these amounts are also projected at
a constant level of Kb200,000 per year. The projected commitments in equity
investments and local currency loans are limited to a stationary level,
averaging Kb1 million per year. This commitment level ensures that the
uncommitted surplus in local currency remains above a reasonable margin of
Kb200,000 at the end of each year between 1977 and 1981, thus facilitating
IDB's cash flow needs.
Forecast Financial Results
6.09      Profitability.  Projected financial statements and ratios are
presented in Annexes 10-13.  From 1.1% of average equity in 1976, the after



- 23 -
tax profit is seen to reach 5% of the average equity or about Ki390,000 or
US$1 million in 1981. As of January 1977, IDB has increased its lending rates
to 11% p.a. on foreign currency loans and to 12% on local currency loans, from
a previous range of 10-11%. Taking in account the proposed Bank loan, IDB
expects to pay now an average interest of 8.5% p.a. on foreign borrowings as
compared to an average of 8% p.a. before 1977. The interest on the local
borrowings, starting in 1977, is conservatively estimated at 9.5% p.a. Thus
the spread between the interest charged on lending and the interest paid on
borrowings will increase from 2% to 2.5%, beginning in 1977. Dividend income
is conservatively projected to grow gradually from 1.4% of equity portfolio
in 1977 to 4.1% in 1981, and will comprise 6.4% of the gross income by 1981.
Overall IDB presents good prospects for profitability.
6.10      Financial Position.  Total assets are projected to increase at an
average rate of 36% p.a. and reach K636 million, or US$86 million by 1981.
The portfolio in particular will grow from 76% of assets in 1976 up to 91% in
1981. IDB's debt. coverage will remain adequate, although thin at an average
above 1.2 through 1981. Projections indicate that the debt to equity ratio
will exceed 3:1 by the end of 1978 and reach 4:1 by 1981.
Increase in Share Capital
6.11      A last installment of K17823,OOO in 1977 will complete the first
increase of IDB's share capital. The second capital increase (para. 4.03),
is expected to be paid in three installments:  Kn918,000 in 1979, I(1916,000
in 1980 and KEI66,000 in 1981, and will bring IDB's share capital to KU6
million by 1981.
VII. THE LOAN - ITS JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
7.01      IDB has, with Bank and Government's joint assistance, established
itself among Kenyan financial institutions as a major force in developing
and assisting the manufacturing sector. This was the main objective of the
first Bank loan. The objectives of the second loan were to enhance IDB's
role as a DFC by strengthening its appraisal capabilities, staffing, proce-
dures, and resource base. This was also substantially accomplished.
7.02      However, the establishment of IDB during the period of the past two
Bank loans has not been without problems. First, the management was changed
in IDB's first year of operation which resulted in some lost time. Second,
IDB's small beginning staff consisted of keen but inexperienced officers who
needed technical support; in fact, the Bank seconded one of its own staff for
two years to assist in teaching project evaluation. Third, IDB's eagerness
to book some business in its e.-rly years resulted in long lags in project
implementation after approvals had already been given. Finally, when its
concerns switched from business buildup to managing an expanding portfolio,
it found that its internal operating policies required better definition
regarding commitment, disbursement, and supervision. Fortunately for IDB,



- 24 -
its management and staff have exhibited flexibility and sound judgment in
resolving such problems as soon as they were highlighted. Consequently, IDB
is making good progress on its way to becoming a mature development finance
institution.
7.03      Both in quantitative and qualitative terms, IDB's near-term strat-
egies (para. 6.01) are to enhance its role in further developing this key
sector. In the past, IDB financed approximately 8% of Kenya's annual indus-
trial investment through loans and equity investments. During the projected
period of the proposed Bank loan, IDB expects to increase this proportion
upwards to 13% p.a. Through the proposed loan, the Bank will be able to:
(i) assist IDB and its implementation of projects intended to, inter alia,
alleviate the pressure of unemployment, develop new manufacturing enterprises
located away from major urban centers to reduce migration into the cities,
and better utilize resources domestically available; and (ii) provide part
of IDB's foreign exchange requirements for financing such projects.
7.04      There are no risks other than those normally associated with DFC
lending that require highlighting in the proposed loan to IDB. Even these
risks are minimized in view of IDB's good performance to date, the Bank's
familiarity with IDB's operations, and the good cooperation that has enabled
the Bank to discuss and resolve issues with IDB's management before they
become serious problems. However, as it is true for any rapidly-growing
financial institution, IDB will need to carefully monitor the quality of its
portfolio to ensure that its project evaluation/follow-up standard is not
eroded with the increase in the level of its operations.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      A Bank loan of US$20.0 million equivalent is recommended for
IDB substantially on the same terms as Loans 946-KE and 1148-KE, with one
change. It is recommended that the individual project free limit be raised
from US$400,000 equivalent to US$600,000 equivalent to recognize the good
quality of IDB's appraisals; the aggregate free limit would be US$4.0 million.
IDB's maximum debt-to-equity ratio should be raised from 3:1 to 4:1. The loan
would carry the standard Bank interest rate, and the amortization schedule
would conform substantially to the aggregate of subloan repayments to IDB,
with a maximum maturity of 15 years for any sub-loan. IDB would be expected
to pass the full foreign exchange risk to its borrowers. IDB would continue
to serve as an investor for Government's account at no risk to itself under
the terms described in paras. 4.20 - 4.21. The Bank will continue to serve
as the Executing Agency for IDB's two UNDP-financed technical assistance
posts.
8.02      Disbursement would be maintained at 100% c.i.f. cost of direct
imports, 65% of the invoice price of good previously imported into Kenya, and
40% of the costs of civil works. These percentages are based on a study
carried out by IDB. As agreed for the second loan, the Bank would continue
to finance the foreign component (to be substantiated by IDB on a case-
by-case basis) of locally manufactured goods made in part from materials
previously imported.



ANNEX 1
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Board of Directors
(as of April 1, 1977)
Chairman:  Mr. B.M. Gecaga              Director, British-American Tobacco
and President of the Council, Uni-
versity of Nairobi.
Mr. L. Kibinge               Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Mr. J. G. Shamalla           Under Secretary, Treasury
(Alternate)                Ministry of Finance and Planning
Mr. B. M1. Kabetu            Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Mr. F. N. Ondieki            Deputy Secretary,
(Alternate)                Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Mr. E. M. Wamae              Executive Director, ICDC
Mr. R. Kemoli                Officer, Commonwealth Development
Corporation
Mr. K. Mwendwa               Private Kenyan Businessman
Mr. J. Gatuiria             Managing Director, IDB
Mr. S. V. N. Ngwiri          General Manager,
Kenya National Assurance Co. Ltd.
Mr. S. Githunguri            Chairman,
National Bank of Kenya
EAPID
April, 1977



ANNEX 2
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD. (IDB)
Statement of Policy and Regulations
1.   The Industrial Development Bank Limited is a financial institution
created rby the Government of Kenya for the purpose of furthering the
economic development of Kenya by assisting in the promotion, esta-
blishing, expansion and modernization of medium- and large-scale
industrial enterprises, including mining, agro-industries., engineer-
ing, tourism and such other enterprises as the Board may approve.
In pursuance of this objective it shall be the purpose of the Bank to
achieve and maintain a satisfactory and acceptable return on the
shareholders' capital compatible with the maintenance of a sound
financial position. The IDB will not assist enterprises in the
purely commercial, real estate and purely farming activities.
2.   The IDB will promote the industrial development of Kenya through one,
or a combination of the several of the following methods:-
(a)  Provision of medIum- and Long-term loan finance;
(b) direct equity investments;
(c) provision of guarantees for loans from other sources;
(d) underwriting security issues, shares stocks and similar
obligations.
*    Proposed new clause about managed funds:
IDB shall undertake the management of loans as the agent of and for
account of the Government on terms and conditions to be agreed by
Government and IDB, which shall include a management fee sufficient
to cover IDB's costs in connection with such management and, in addi-
tion, to yield a satisfactory return to IDB.
3.   The IDB will normally finance or otherwise assist enterprises where new
productive assets are to be created and will normally not engage in re-
financing operations or transfer of existing assets.
4.   The IDB operations shall be guided by sound banking principles.  The
Bank's investments decisions shall be based on sound appraisal methods,
and will particularly take into account the total financial require-
ments of the project and the soundness of the resulting financial
structure for the enterprise.
5.   The Bank shall finance only economically sound, financially viable,
technically feasible projects, and those which have or will have com-
petent Management.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.   The Bank shall not normally invest in any project in which the total
capital cost including permanent working capital is less than K650,000
and will not invest an amount of less than K620,000 in any project.
7.   The Bank shall not normally finance or otherwise commit itself in
any enterprise to the extent of more than 50% of the project's
total capital costs, including permanent working capital. Special
consideration shall, however, be given to the financial requirements
of expansion programmes of existing industries.
8.   The Bank will not seek to acquire a controlling interest in its equity
investments, and shall not acquire an interest of more than 49% in the
share capital of any one enterprise. The IDB will not in normal cir-
cumstances manage enterprises, although it will use its best endeavor
to ensure the acquisition of competent Mlanagement. It will, however,
notwithstanding these limitations, take such action as it considers
appropriate where, in case a project supported by it is in jeopardy,
it has to protect its investment.
9.   The Bank's equity investment in any one enterprise shall not exceed
10% of its unimpaired subscribed capital stock, surplus and reserve
at the time of the investment decision.
10. The aggregate amount of the Bank's loans, equity holdings or guarantees
to any one enterprise shall not exceed 20% of the Bank's unimpaired
subscribed stock, and reserve at the time of the investment decision.
11. The Bank's aggregate investments in share capital shall not be allowed
to exceed the Bank's own unimpaired subscribed share capital, surplus
and reserves.
12. The Bank's total debts including guarantees shall not at any time,
exceed three times the amount of its unimpaired subscribed share
capital plus surplus and reserve.
13. The Bank shall at all times seek to protect itself against exchange
risks of foreign borrowings.
14. The Bank shall seek to diversify its investments both geographically
and by industrial sectors.
15. The Bank shall give special consideration to enterprises utilizing
considerable local material and labor resources, and to export oriented
projects.
16. The Bank shall seek to revolve its funds as much as possible by selling
its equity portfolios where prices which give it a reasonable return
on its investments are obtainable.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
17. The Bank shall charge, for its funds or services, interest rates, fees,
or commissions which are compatible with the prevailing market rates
and/or which enable it to earn a reasonable return on its operations.
18. The Bank shall take such security for its loans and guarantees as the
Bank's Board of Directors shall, for each investment determine adequate
or reasonable.
19. The Board of Directors shall conduct the business of the Bank in
accordance with the Companies Act, and shall observe the exchange
control regulations.
20. The Bank shall recruit qualified personnel for its operations.
21. The Bank shall supervise its investments to protect its interest and to
enable it to assist its projects to the maximum extent possible.
22. The Board of Directors of the Bank shall lay such rules and regulations
as it deems fit to govern the day-to-day operations of the Bank.
EAPID
April, 1977



K E N Y A
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK 1iTD.
Organization Chart
|IBOARD OF DIRECTORS |
IMNANAGING DIRECTOR|
|Chief of Operations |                                                                                                                            hef Accountan 
I Inve6tment    M I Nanager,             IMI | | Otanager,                  |       Manag er, | |3; er  er,
Analyst        Investigations           Eneineer           Project Advisory        sInvestents                                             Establishment                                Assistant Chief
Diviso                    _                 Division (*       I      Divis onOf f Lcer                                      Oficei         I                               Account
|Eonou at|
| Senior PSroiect IrEstablighment                                                                                                                          Senior                            Senior
|    Officery l                                            l    officer   |Ac Officer                                                            Accountant                A                    AcAccountant
Project    Projt P                                                           Pjecect     roject                     lAssistant|                                                       Assistant       siatant |Assistant
Officer    Off1cer                                                          Officer    OfficerI
Note:  (*)  lUnder active recruitment.
EAPID
April, 1977



ANiNEX 4
page 1
KENYA
INWOTUIAL 5EV191KN1 9i3B   (its)
List of IDE At"rO&l
(As of  -ecdr-her 31,76)
Mate
m_JE  oo                                                 Oeietsttiio                                  Lc-tion:
rItal         tine       Eopott or                        ieoyaa      Nairobi,
dnaioot   Approvd        Mcaat  Dlbx 4td           Prot cct       or           luport        E-onon3ic    Oarahip   Nechaca
Compa-Y                           Leon       Eauty         loon    Eauity            Coat       Ibcponoin   Sab6ticttiao        Sector           (2)       or Ptaler                 OhfYO.tiaoa
1.   Pnoftican Vgetable Ltd.              216         119          191        69            1,625       hev         Expoet           Food              52        Other         -Operating  t 707 capacity.
Dehydration                                 NIt problem doe to
of Vego.ablee                               uarcliabl  VopPly of saIl
fermeec  -o  =e.ttiop   D-lovo-
mot of 800  Iaa  encor  coder  ay.
2.   Pa-froi-n  roper Mills Ltd.          469                      469         -           19,404       Nea         Im.s.bst.         per              32        Other           Peting  t toil tapd-ity. ove-
ocoeedoft ci markt lead to o-ar-
e'Oeb  ac-h flcm dlitol-Itin    -td
of   000P to he paid by MareR72.
(PC and otbl  nhareholda-  ogeeod to
enpital i-cren.eRec..ery  mpeoted.
3.           -h-y   . Ceebcec  Ltd.       322         106          322         106          2,250       Nt-e        rop-rt           Food             100        Onb-r          o-pePting at foil napt ity. World
Peo.e.uIog                                 peie  inorecoiti footer that ..pply
of Cocbeeton                                rent.  CooPprofit proapa-t.
4.   African Marion od Gtral               187        187          -           187          1,443      opor... i    Expoet              i .ce. riog    25       HKabaPa          To. heoc cpletd by mid-1977. T-nboical
iciocering Co r.(#1GECO)                                                                                                       Dry D-tk                                    NoPfediocs  teed n-eoei   ir the pnt.
No prtble -n peemeot,.-eclleot
prenpacte.
5.   Thiko Cloth KilIl  Ltd.              249         217          249         217          3,117    SEpAoniot   rlp.Sobht.          T2ttile           31        Other         - To be c-mplotad by mid-1922. 10%
0-eae   proided far by  -rigi-a
eppronaif.pef1tchba. tep-ted Pant-
rlicig divideado Prom 1977.-
6.   Tapki                                  82        -             33         -              125       Nev         L2p.Sb-t.    EKogi-rriog           75          obo.a        -Not eporatio, comle          by mid-1967.
Mtalloabln Pip..                            ttnagnm'ennt oedioatioe n.od.
_6tflnpttcnLng.
7.   Nairobi Srero Hotel                  234         -            234                      1,765       NPe         Erport           Tonr-ir           13        Nairo-i       -rc  fll1 ,perati.o   Defec-t  In  aLIl-
diog decigo. Deed. to doc-lop
profitabilItniy   -cfin7.
8.   Salt Hanofatofton                    426         100          382         lO          2,142       Net         1ep.Sbct.        tiLiLg            SO        M-tb.e-       -To  tattr  oper-tinS it  L97S. Good
Kenya Ltd.                                                                                                                     6It Ptoductiom                              prJoett ide.  ad techeieal *uppert.
tescbcicg macdo tsoRtgheeiag.
9.   bnyoki Teotile MIill  Ltd.           219         187          210         187          6.501         ot.       Iec Sub t        Tcxtile           64        Other         -Cowleted early 1977.Cc.poticion
Genmontn                                   from  nared-heed elothoc Promt  fctot-
Decpe: Po..sible markotieg problem.
aeed eaoogcoet.
10.  Mnaal   a Keopa Ltd.                  150         100          135        100             950    E.p.i-   ITmp.fta                Egt.Deieerigo    16        OtMer           At fall cap-itYEFight el... prienj.
Good -Soapot. Nigh early divideade.
11.   lof-  Prodacto Ltd.                    53        -             53         -              104       Nr          LtP.Shbct.       Teettle         1too        Ntirbi        _Copletiom Iid-1977.Lorge taported
SAnitary                                    Kapat cd   lall v-I.. added.  xek
utepvoom                                   fageteot ted po8cible mrhekt diffi-
12.   Xenyo  gotel  toportio  Ltd.          275                     275         -            3,330    EKp-ation   tEport              Thtriam           70        Nairobi       -No ptbhio .GCod praaitability carented
(Nairobi Ietcrconninoal                                                                                                                                                    to further Ie- rac after bhenrago
hNtal)                                                                                                                                                                    pric  erot-rl i-  oied. Ciod 4-8'-
amt.
13.   C     Lodgc Ltd.                       0         -             50         -               150    Eapanolna   Rrport             Thorium           75        Other         -Fh1; apiat-drS. Ptofit ederder.
(Kita-S'i ltdge)                                                                                                                                                           Ko     e  mih         enti kblibikt. p et-ct   ne
gotdecet recegeolVtiom eftar noaltlot
a.tody. k.tOtoeblo ptoep.rt..
14.   Rift Va11e  Teatiloc Ltd.            479         -            479         -           12,450       New          Spbub-t.        Tetile            33        Other         -Cbtplctiom  by mid-1977. ceWpetitiva
(Ricoeca)                                                                                                                                                                  cotitle ma t  iteallant ommageten.
11.    Ooolctac Ltd.  277  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -                                                                                 N~-obk of matte  apply omoce  tiho   delay.
is.   Coki.. Ltd.                          277         _            250         w715                     Nlew        tp.SaOt.    FPod                  100        Nairobi       -tl_saLte aetdtitel eed thhttnk   o_
tic...it.                                    o-bt-er 1976. OCat  tt te"eOttom
awaUiWe. Dead Ntipdhoctt
16.   tir  Giooery Ltd.                    170         -            140         -              500       Net.       Ihp.SUbht.         ibrec           IO         Other         -OpoLetio- by mid-1977. iofir diffl-
Cottcn gihoig                             ealtioc  Km atStiog iublotitlip        f
ei'a cobb5. 211  sahetitcrc P or
.bbot     dadt$tact.  "dit'. aepegeed
0"iii at tuii .4*ty Pec1/          ec
17.     soited Vahiolo                      280        150           -           66          1,500       N- ivp.Shbt.                 NschiDtry         51        Vo6f           ahtNkftdtio       ..At.
'   I                                                                                                                                        ati~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-achine   rec lno    erhodal..
Aa.-ablar  Ltd. (iam)                                                                                                          Witiael                                      ordabhly lieb: Ieki  R.  Dea.d
Amooleby                                   mcemgAdht. bePd  tOPlftcbility
poroep*dtt.
1.   DLc  NteostieIa  Litd.                469         -            469         -            2.433       NtIm        I*.Stbm t.       Onotte            67       Nmirobi        -i2lcotilm  by Md-1i77. Fift elac.
Pfiaft1atdtocl                              reoheoleal knapP.  tairike. if
Par'kIng eapotti.  ftfckt6etekt
ait pam  laivee      trotbjtao. 
i9    Elom-  Pllatiom  of Pey  otd.         30S         38          246          3S             715    Eop .n.io      apd Kdbat.      Platiem           41        Nairohi                     Syci1en byi7i7. Ded
NCPiblc                                 Stkagoist. bpSt fiiohaoea by titte
N¢iitty betol, kidiatipac.   rdbedrt
Dead  reetA    iont iot.porte
Lda  olin.
3]   ia  nmiohiityofloa   eatomcoply  roeotclo .Aooe.tnolty.



ANNEX 4
pag 2
KENYA
INDUSTIAL DbEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
List of IDB APProv-1s
(As of la-b-e  31,1976)
Main
KIb'0005                                              Orietation                                   Lonattin:
Total        Nlie         Export or                       Kesyn        Nairobi,
Atount   Approved       A oo.nt  Diobarsed        Projont         on           Irport       Ebnosoin    O-sorship   Mo-b.sa
cospany                            Loan      Eouity        Loan    Ernity            Coat        E.PenoLno   Sob.totti-ts       looter S -                 or Other                   Observatioms
20.  Eis African  Bag aod                  421         -            120       -             1,325      Enpoosion    Dop.Slbot.        Fibres             83       Other        - TesporatJ fa21 of profit io  to
Cordage Company Ltd.                                                                                                           BagS and                                    shortage of sisal (T.sanin). Seeking
Cloth                                        eesion of 10% duty  n raw Jute .Good
-.ege,toEs.eI1nele    prosponta.
21.   Mount Conya Bnttlors Ltd.             125         65          -           65            545        Nv          Irp.Subst.       Bovorages         110       Othor        - nt yet  per.ting.  10  o-e-rn 
loft Brinks                                 . asist   eoaot.      Peodnrle   -S-aae
appointed by Bove-bo  1976. Excellent
pros.pe-r for deotod cod profitabiliny.
22.   Modhop.por - ntorpotional Ltd.    183             26          183        26             920        Nev         Ip.SOb.t.        Paper             100       Nairobi      _ Casplntine mid-1977. UOisgo ast
Tisane Paper                               pper  a    w  aterial: high onpapted
en -e.inrt-ro  ION.. soiets   -9-ge to.
lend pr-sports.
23.   Allied  Rubb-r  Icd.ttint Ltd.    75             -            -         _               189      Enpooiso    Isp.lSbst.    RBbber                  75       Other        - Civil vorbk  to be  spui.eted by May
RBbben  o.s.e                               1977.Mhahinery p-onhased ready for
Ssolago    harholdlso isoonaoed
fOlol ing IEB'e reqnirls.e t.oodd
24.   Booth Ma.uufctu-ing Africa Ltd.  200             l00          -         -               784       opsino    bnp.Sb-.                 ... AloLniog  25       Other         - Mat open_stir.%.Gsd tPg-Lent and
Altroinim
25.   Wire Prndanto Ltd.                   111          49          -          49             210      Eupaosion i   Iplobsi.         Engineoring        33       Nairobi       - Cosplotien by 1977.St-eng  -poosor.
Wedded Wtre                                 good smasogeent nod r-rketing.FuLI
dividend espentod is 1977. Cnspotsinir
_arko.t.Gnd pro.epot.
26.  SOebniks Ltd.                           52        -            -         -               105        Nev         LplSob-t.       Mining             100       Other         - Co p;etien  by 1977.  iostalloton ie
Clay Brinks                                prog-et. No prnbles.Eo..ollent
_pespent of profitobility.
27.   Ykue  Teotile led.otni.o Ltd.         94         156          -         -               631        Nov         Ip.Subht.       Tootilo             44       Other          IDD is providing  .isenla-l,  .ooauotiog
,ality Clothoo                              nd stnagemant assiatanro    Semios
hot  -ongeable problo-   1]
28.   Kii-u Cottco  Mills Ltd.              600        200          -         200           3,365      Eopaotion    Lp.lSbet.         Tentile            81       Other          M ..geable ptobls, danpits
29.   Uoni-k Ltd.                           300        170          -         -             1,610       Nle          Iop.Slbnt.       Fibro-             66       Other          fropoted by IDB. Minor -     nertolo-
b lypropyl-                                ties oe oupply rest and   arket.
legs
30.   Afrinan badiators Ltd.                 50        -            -         -                00      Eps-sion   Lop.Subst.         Mhilory             82       Nairobi       -Coopoti   by 1977. No problev.
Vahirl                                      leod prespento. Liched to ne- onno
31.   7re-food Koys Ltd.                    200        100          -         -             1,950       NMo          Export          rood                51       Other         -P  taroble poblem: technology snort-
F,,.oe-dniod                               ond maket ......steot. food prop-nt..
32.   F-r-rol Masofoctoro Pro.jct          50i         275          -         -             9,950       NBo          Export          Chominal            62       Othor          Cood prosp-to.
(piroost Pent, na Fosr                                                                                                         po-f-ral
Wheeler and E;cher Wy-t)
33.   Polyaa..r Staple Fibra ProiJst   500             300          -         -            15,000        N=          I.p. Sbst.      Tcxtile            51        other         -Po..ibln penblro: sopply nvilability
(Madhvani Cresp and Cheditex)                                                                                                 Polyester                                   aed pric,eIpv ecnotin retnen
Stoplo Fibre                               Oresports uoknss.
V   Th. avsilability of lo.al cotton supply pre-ont  seo -nccertanlty.
EAPIO
April, 1977.



ANNEX 5
K8NYA
LND45TRIAL 06V8WPM6E6T BANK
ANrA       OT- 1hL  APPEOVALS (WAN PWS EQUITY)
Breakdown of Approvals Accordiza,        Provects hgbsove  before '76 ('73-75)  Pnolect8 AsProved during 1976                Total Projeccs A4roved Since Incetion (1973-1976)
to:                                        o. of    A           Percentage    No. of      knount    Perentage    No. of         Amount    Perqentae   Aver    Sizes of            IDBa's Financing
Proiece    Approved    o             Projects           d    of Total    ProAets         Proved    of Total       IDWs        To^1:      as a  Percent
Approsd      MM)         A           Approved    (KBOO    Ameot           Approved    (KOOO)       Amount      Fofan  no ∞tal
Asoved                               Approved                               epvroved,    (C000                   _PtotectCst
1. Size of lDB's Finaneing
Up to 11200,000                           4           345         6.1          5          537        10.0            9          882          8.0           98          223            43.9
Ki200,001 -Kb400,000                      7         1,752        31.2          4        1,398        26.2           11        3,149         28.7          286        1,34S            21.2
Kb400,001 - K1600,000                     8         3,527        62.7          2        1,037        19.4           10        4,561         41.6          456        5,273             8.6
K16600,001 - K1800,000                                            -            3        2,375        44.4            3        2,375         21.6          792        9.438             8.4
19        5,624       100.0         14         5,347      100.0           33       10,971        100.0          332'       2,964            11.2
2.  Size of Total Project Cost
Up to K4500,000                           4           345         6.1          4          347         6.5            8          692          6.3           86          183            47.0
1l8500,001 - IU2,000,000                  7         1,877        33.4          7        2.509        46.9           14        4,386         40.Q          3i3        L,177            26.6
kL2,000,001 - 165,000,000                 5         2,048        36.4          1          916        17.1            6        2,965         27.0          494        2,7Z3            18.1
KL5,000,001 - K1 20,000,000               3         1,354        24.1          2        1.575        29.5            5        2.928         26.7          586       12,661             4.6
19        5,624       100.0         14         5,347       100.0          33       10,971        1O.0 3'32                                  11.2
3.  TrPe of Prolect: New or Expstsston
New                                      13         4,154        73.9          8        3,250        60.8           21        7,404         67.5          353        3,915             9.0
Expansion/Modernizatio                    6         140                        6        2.097        39 2           1L        357           32 5          297        1.30L            22.8
19    3,6-24     100.0         14         5347                        33      1,71          TW             *            ,4t1.
4. Main Orientation:  Export or
Import Substitution
Export (and Tourism)                      6         1,357        24.1         2         1,414        26.4            8        2,771         25.3          346        2,809            12.3
Import Substitution                      13         4,M6         75.9        12         3,933        73.6           25        8 200         74.7            7b                        10.9
1ßI        5,624       100.0        14         5,347       100.0           33      10,71          10.0     o      3        2;94g             114'
5. Economic Sector
Textile                                   4         1,353        24.5         3         1,902        35.6            7        3,255         29.7          465        5,881             7.9
Chemical, Rubber & Plastics               2           8t4        14.5          2          8SO        15.9            4        1,664         15.2          416        3,322            12.5
Engineering 8. Metal, Machinery           4           t57        15.3         3           789        14.8            7        1,646         15.0          2.5          72i            32,3
Food, Beverages                           3           950        16.9          2          580        10.8            5        1,530         13.9          306        1,417            21.6
Fibres & Cordagee                         1           170         3.0          2          891        16.7            3        1,061          9.7          354        1,145            30.9
Paper                                     1           469         8.3         1           209         3.9            2          678          6.2          339       10,162             3.3
Mining                                    1           452         8.0          1           126        2.3            2          578          5.4          289        1,123            25.7
Tourism                ~.1.                        ...hl          9.9          -                                     3          559          -5  IIA                 . 7L2W
19 u rism 3,24        100.0         14       5     .      100.0           33       10,975        100.0           3                          10.2
6. Kengan Ownership
MaJoritary                               12         3,174        56.4         11        4,347        81.3           23        7,521         68.6          327        2,453            13.3
Minoritary _37                                   _             *2j             3        1.000        18.7           10        3 450         314            4                           8.3
7. Location                     ~~~19       5,154       100.0         14         5,347       100.0           33      Thto O10.0                    3          ,6               11.2
7. Location
Nairobi or Mmbasa                        10         2,792        44.0          3          782        14.6           13        3,484         31.8          268        1,191            22.5
Other                                   _t        .- 2            2.g_        11        4.565        85.4           20 75487                68.2          374         12               9.1
a9        5,624       100.0         14         5,347       100.0          33       10,971        100.0          332        2T9%             11.2
8.  Pin&bcial Blate of Bettzre (1981)
Above 257,                                6         1,914        34.0         7         2,061        38.5           13        3,976         36.2          306        1,187            25.8
Below 25% 7                                         2,19%        51.5         3           9g9        18.5           12        3,883         35.4          323        3,S94             8.3
Non Available                             4            b         145          4         ,,2.26       43.0.           a        3.112         28-44                                      8.7
T .,        t3100.0      It        5TV7i        100.0           33       10,971        100.0          332        29               11.2
9.  Econoai Rtae of Return   E RR)
Above 15X                                 6         2,353        41.t          7        1,960        36.7           13       4,313          39.3          332        2,73f            12.1
Below 15%                                 6         1,?74        31.1         -            40         0.7            6        1,767         16.3          298        3,3L4             9.0
Non Available                                      .14 1           z          7         3.347        62.6           14       4.871         44.4           34        jeQj4             11.5
ICl 'F,B24            1014  5,347 1-00.0                                  33       10,971        100.0                                      11.2
RAPID
Apr6l, 1977.



AelNEX 6
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
List of IDB ProSect Possibilities
(As of December 31, 1976)
First 18 Projects in the Advanced Pre.pratiom Stage for Presentation to the hoard
Sectoe/
New (N) or                                       ImYport Substitutico            Prope..d IDB Particaiption              Total Projent        Use of      Probability
Company                      Activity            Eapansioc (E)   Location        Ovnership        or Ec port Orientation          Loan      Etuity        Total (Kb)       Cost (Kh)             PAS        of Approval
1.   Shikhule Strawboard Mfg.    Strawboard           (N) Paper        Eldoret        All Kenyan       Import Sub.                    100,000       25,000      125,000             250,000          Major       High It qtr.
froa vheat straw                                                    based an Local Inputs
2.   Fenad Spc.ialitis            Nahy Pooda and       (E) Food        Nairobi        Majority        IMp-rt Sub.                        -         200,000      200,000           1,900,000          None        High let qtr,
Kenya Ltd.                   Powdered MiSh                                       Foreign          Many Foreign Inputs
3.   Bulleys Tannerien Ltd.       Loather Tanning    (E) Leether        Thike         Majority         Export Oriented
Foreign         mostly Local Inputs            250,000         -         250,000             570,000           None       High lot qtr.
4.  Keriita Sawmlill               sawailliog          (E) Fo-etry    Eldoret        All Kenyan       Both LIport Sub. and
Export; Local Inputb           50,000          -         50,000               65,000         Major       High 2nd qtr.
5.  Munias Sugar C.. Ltd.         sugar Products       (E) Sugar       Mnigas         Majority         Import Sub., local Inputs    500,000        300,000      800,000          32,000,000          None        High 2cd qtr.
Kenyan
6.   South Nyanea Co. Ltd.        Sugar Products       (N) Sugar        South         Majority         Impsrt Sub., Local Inputs    500,000           -         500,000          27,500,000          None        High
Nyana         Kenyan
7.  Athi River T; ..ery Ltd.      Tannery              (E) Loather     Nairobi        Majority        Eiport, mostly Local             75,000       25,000      100,000             100,000          Some        High
Kenyan           Inputs                                                                                        Advioc
N.   Transmara Plywood            sawnilling           (N) Forestry    Transmara      Majority         Import Sub.,based on           300,000      100,000      400,000           2,000,000          Some        High
Factory                                                                          Kenyan           Local Inputs                                                                                  Advice
9.  Carpet Managemeot             Yam Winding and   (N) Tentiles    Thika             Majority         Import Sub. ,bao-d on          300,000         -         300,000             650.000          Non         High
Servies Ltd.                 Doubling Cotton                                     Foreign          LoWel Inputs
10.  Neoia Sugar Co.               Sugar Production   (N) Sugar          Noifa         Majoity          Import Nub., based on             -         700,000      700,000          36,000,000          None        High
Kenyan           Local Inputs
11.  Wananchi Engineering          Nuts and Dolts       (N) Metal       Nairobi        Jointly          Import Sub., based on          150,000         -         150,000             350,000          None        Medium
Works                        Manufacturing                                       Owned            Imported Inputs
12.  Waruinbo, Margotiae           Tannery             (N) Leather      Nairobi        Majority         Import Sub., based on          150,000       50,000      200,000             423,000         SNme        MHdiim
b& Eatheeha                                                                      Kenyan           LIported Inputs                                                                               Advice
13.  Ken-Knit Ltd.                 Carutscs            (E) Tentileo    Eldoe-t         Majority         Import Sub., basod on          225,000       75,000      300,000             500,000          None        High
Foreign          Soported Inputs (Synthetics)
14.  Mountain Club Limited         Tourist Lodge        (N) Tourism     Nanyuki        All Kenyan                                      200,000       50,000      250,000             350,000          Major       Medium
15.   Inter-om  Trade AN           Cutflower            (E) Horticul-   Linuru         All Foreign      Export, both Local and          20,000         -          20,000              45,000          None        High
Production              tore                                        Imported Inputs
16.  Johnor Wan (EA) Ltd.          Insect Spray,        (E) Chemicals   Nairobi        Majority         Import Sub. u                  100,000       50,000      150,000             300,000          None        High
Deodorant                                           Foreign          Imported Inputs
17.  Merchant Enterprises Ltd.   Sodiul                (N) Chericals  GEnicse          Majority         Both Export and                350,000      150,000      500,000           2,000,000          Major       Low
Sulphate                                           Kenyan           Import Sub., Imported Inputs
1g.   SuMflag Spinning             Weaving              (E) Textiles    Nairobi        Majority         Import Sub., both Loal         300,000      100,000      400,000           1,241,000          None       LSs
Mills   Ltd.                                                                     Kesya            and   ImPorted   Inputs      _____        _____         _____           _______
TOTAL                                                                                                                     3,570,000   1,825,000   5,395,000           106,244,000
EAPID
April, 1977.



ANNEX 7
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
ASSUMPTIONS FOR PROJECTED OPERATIONS
AND PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, 1977-1981
General
All data for 1973-1975 are actual. Data for 1976 follow from the
actual records of September 30, 1976 projected according to the project pipe-
line to December 31, 1976. The assumptions for the projections into 1977-
1981 have been refined since the previous IDB's appraisal of May 1975 to
adapt to the overall trends observed in 1975 and 1976.
A.        Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, 1977-1981
1. Approvals of Loans in Foreign Exchange, 1977-1981
Derived by substracting approvals of loans in local currency and
approvals of equity investments from total approvals. Total approvals is
assumed to grow at an annual rate of 10% from the baseline of K65.347 million
in 1976.
2.  Approvals of Loans in Local Currency, 1977-1981
Ib300,000 in 1977, 1978, 1980 and 1981, and Kbl million in 1979.
Derived from the availability of local resources by securing a surplus margin
of KR200,000 in local currency over commitments at the end of each year.
3. Equity Investments Approvals. 1977-1981
Kh500,00O in 1977, 1978, 1980 and 1981, and K61 million in 1979.
Derived from the availability of local resources. jointly with local loans
approvals, by securing a surplus of K1200,000 at the end of each year.
4. Loan Commitments, 1977-1981
Assume 50% of approvals committed in year of approvals, 50% in
the following year. In addition, the balance Df K1,199,000 approved but
yet uncommitted by 1976 is fully committed in 1977.
5. Equity Commitments, 1977-1981
Assume 70% of approvals committed in year of approval, 30% in
the following year. In addition balance of KL675,000 approved but yet
uncommitted by 1976 is committed in 1977.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
6. Loan Disbursements, 1977-1981
Assume 50% of commitments disbursed in year of commitment, 40%
in the following year, 10% in third year. In addition, 80% of the balance
of Kh2,637,000 committed but yet undisbursed by 1976 is disbursed in 1977,
and 20% of this balance is disbursed in 1978.
7. Equity Disbursements, 1977-1981
Assume 70% of commitments disbursed in year of commitment,
30% in the following year. In addition, the balance of KL558,000 committed
and yet undisbursed by 1976 is fully disbursed in 1977.
8. Loan Repayments to IDB, 1977-1981
Assume an average term of 10 years with 2 years of grace, except
for subloans financed from the two ECGD's credits, which form 9.33% of
foreign loans and have a 5 years term without grace.
B.        Resources
1. Share CapitaI
K16822,500 in 1977 from last installment of the first replenishment
A second replenishment of Kn2 million in three installments: K6917,500 in
1979, Kn916,250 in 1980, K6166,250 in 1981.
2. Government Funds
K6200,000 p.a. Most probably these funds will not be grants but
soft loans with 10 years' grace and interest-free. They would add to IDB's
debt but require no repayment over the forecast period.
3.  Local Borrowings by IDB:  KI150,000 p.a.
4. Foreign Borrowings
Kb9.165 million of existing loans from IBRD, DEG, ECGD and ADB.
The new borrowings currently negotiated: second ECGD loan of UKh2 million,
second DEG loan of DM6 million, third IBRD loan of US$20 million, first EIB
loan of 5 million units of account (about US$6 million), total K113.302
million and are expected to become effective in 1977. Assume repayments to
IDB's lenders are dove-tailed to receipts from sub-loans, since no recycling
is permitted under current borrowing agreements.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
C.        Financial Resiuts
1. Income
-  Interest on average loan portfolio outstanding averages
10.5% for sub-loans disbursed by 1976 and raises to 11% from
1977 onwards.
-  Commitment fees:  1% of average undisbursed commitments.
-  Appraisal fees average 0.75% of annual commitments
(front-end fee).
-  Dividend income from equity portfolio:  year of investment -
none, year 2 - none, year 3 - 2%, year 4 - 5%, year 5 onwards
- 6%. Besides three projects are expected to declare dividends
of Kb29,000 fromt 1976 onwards.
- A commission of 2% p.a. on the average managed funds portfolio
which amounts to Kh258,000 by 1976 and increases by Kb250,000 p.a.
- lacome from short-term invest:ments: 7% p.a, on average annual
balance.
2.Expene
- Interest on average long-term debt averages 8% for withdrawals
before 1977 and raises to 8.5% thereafter.
- Commitment and other fees on borrowings average 0.75% of annual
withdrawals.
- Administrative expenses: staff remuneration based on projected
staffing plan and a 5% annual fise; rents inctease of IO15,000
in 1977; other expenses raising by 15% p.a.
- Straight-line depreciation: building - 2.52; vehicles - 25%;
office equipment, furniture and fittings - 12.5%.
- Corporate income tax is 45% of gross profit.
-  Provisions for possible losses total KI20,000 by 1976, and are
set at 1% of total disbursements from 1977 onwards.
3. Assets and Ligbilities
- Cash is maintained at K"75,000 from 1977 onwards.
- Loans/accounts receivable are assumed to be 5% of the outstanding
loan portfolio at the end of the year.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
-  Projected purchases of fixed assets:  1977 - Kb32,000 for
replacements, office partitioning; 1978 - Kn4,000 for office
equipment; 1979 - K311,000 for vehicles, office equipment;
1980 - Kh9,500 for replacement; 1981 - K1614,000 for vehicle
replacements, office equipment.
- Current liabilities are assumed to be 5% of long-term debt
outstanding.
EAPID
April, 1977



ANNEX J
KENYA
I:USTRIAL DVELPM4NT BANK (IDB)
AMLL ARD PRJEOTED QPEAT0NS, 1973-1981. K£0O02
19~~3    2974   ~19 7$  1976      1.977     I 971     1979      19E8C    1981
.otr  -                 - .P. .    ,,  Fro oti-e d            --
Aprovals
Foreign-'/                          644      1437      2021      34?2      5082     5670      5667-    7029       7811
Loans  Local                                     -             480       322       300       300       450       300       300
Total                                        iT4                           I                             3T2 79 
Equity Investment4                           55      724        264     1603                 500      102X                 5000
Total Approvals                             699      2161     26 5          7     582       6         7117      7829      8611
Commitments
Foreign                             -        1049      1554      3722     3740      5376      5669      6348      7420
Loas     oal50      75?       150       300       375       375       300
ro0tal
Equity Investments                   >481                                966      1025       500       850       650       500
Total  bomm.tments                                   1530      2128      440         5      676                 7373      8220
Disbuxrseenta
Foretgn                              -469               1040     2749      3524     4597      5359      598-0    6816
Loans  local                                                             2 -  -  2  519      3233                368       337
Total          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                M7TM
Fquity Investments                                    ? ?20     472      721      1276       657       745       710       545
Total Disbureemnts                                             1512     370 2    5319      5575      6         7058      7698
1/ For li5ai  ii fbraIgn e* TP.asI7 7e;i3r'at1ohs were evaluated above in constant 1976 4  by using the exchange rates
of November 1976: 1US$   $.37 Kah,  :TI   = 3,4j Ksh, 1 UK £ = 13q98 Ksh.  Thus projections are not bia ed by the 4nyan
q,v   *ton. of 194 4nd tiw lsel pef ?peratias of different years may be compared objectively.  In tk  financia1
ssanewe7W>a wweve .f d$aeaewe            e1:gt3 1ea*3s are valued accorfflgE to the exchange ratefi at the bggtheing a d at
the end of each current yer,I whieh yiedp different totals: 1974-K£400,000; 1975-K1,043, WO; 1976- n2,834,000.
EAPID
April, 1977.



ANNEX 9
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Projected Resources Position
(Kf6'000s)
December 1976               June 1980             December 1980
Foreign    Local         Foreign      Local       Foreign    Local
Exchange   Currency      Exchange    Currency    Exchange   Currency
Resources
Cash Generation                 46                         749                     938
Share Capital                3,177                      5,376                    5,834
Government Grants              215                         915                   1,015
Local Borrowings               -                          525                      600
Foreign Borrowings:
IBRD (Loan 946-KE)   2,092                  2,092                   2,092
TBRD (Loan 1148-KIE)  4,185                 4,185                   4,185
DEG (First Loan)        682                   682                     682
DBG (Second Loan        -                   1,023                   1,023
ADB                   1,507                 1,507                   1,507
ECGD (First Loan)       699                   699                     699
ECGD (Second Loan)      -   --              1,398                   1,398
=E.IB                                       2,511                   2,511
Total Resources    9,165   3,438         14,097       7,565      14,097       8,387
Uses
Commitments:
- Loans                 6,325     802        24,284       1,815      27,458        2,002
- Equity Investments      -     1,971           -         4,671         -          4,996
Fixed Assets            -        10           -            104        -            109
Total Uses          6,325   2,783        24,284       6,590      27,458        7,107
Uncommitted Resource
Surplus (Gap)        2,840     655       (10,187)        975    (13,361)       1,280
EAPID
April, 1977.



KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DINELO4I4NT BANK (IDB)
Actual and Pro,jected Income Statements (1973-1981)
Actual                                 Projected
Income                                     1973   197 19 75 1276 I/           9977               1979    1950
Interest on Loans                         -        8     98    304          684    1,153    1,679   2,231    2,798
Conmitment Fees                           -        3     20     28           25       28        34       38       42
Appraisal Fees                             -       -     22      21          29        43       45       50       58
Dividend Income                           -        -     16     29           29       51       103     162       209
Managed Funds Fees                         -       -     -        5           7        12       17       22       27
Income from Short-term Deposits           22      56     90    103           ,99      60        60      98       127
Total Income                         22      67    246    490          873    1,347    1,938   2,601    3,261
Expenses
Charges on Borrowings
Interest                               -        8     88    213          488      828    1,223   1,637    2,065
Other Fees                             -        -     11     32           28       36        41      46        52
Administrative Fipenses                   26      73    113    170          228      251       276     303       333
repreciation                               2       2      5      8           12       14        16      17        18
Provision for possible Losses on
Investmnzts                             -    -         10     1                               64      11        77
Total Epenses                        28      83    227    433          809    1,185    1,620   2,074    2,545
=2   S   :===  ~==           :IS    1=::=:  ~uS=u=   umtSX    W!C5:
Profit (loss) before Tax                     (6)   (16)   19       57           64       162      318     527       716
Income Tax                                     -      -     -      25           29        73      143      237      322
Profit (loss) after Tax                       (6)   (16)   19       32          35       89       175      290      394
1/ Based on the actual income  statnent at septber 30, 1976, projected to December 31, 1976
EAP 11)
ADril, 1977.



KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (1973-1981)
(K£ I 000)
Actual                                    Projected
Assets                                  1973    1974    1975    1976 1       1977     197t      1979    1950    19W
Current Assets
Cash                                           27     119       39          75       75        7       75        75
Short-term Deposits                   863   1,188   1,508   1,733        1,102      621    1,087   1,709    1,908
Loans/Accounts Receivable            _         34     122       93         418      648       895   1,147    1,407
Total Current Assets               863   1,2)49   1,79   1,865        1,595    1,344    2,057   2,931    3,390
Portfolio,..----   --  -       =..
Foreign Loans                       -      4o00   1,440  4,258        7,612   11,893   16,538  21,313   26,311
Local Loans                         -       -       202/   252          771    1,092    1,384   1,656    1,857
Equity Investments                  -      220     692   1,413-       2,689-   3,346    4,091-  4,801    5,346
Less Accumulated Provisions-               -           tlO) -    )         (73)    (129)    (193)   (26h) _(341)
Net Portfolio                       -      620'  2,1i42   5,903      10,999   16,202   21,820  27,506   33,173
Fixed Assets                           10      26       38      52          84        88       99     109       123
Less Accumulated Depreciation          (2)            _L9) J)   _:7;)      (29)      (43)     (59)    (76)      (94)
Net Fixed Assets                     8      22      29       35          55        45       40      33        29
Total Assets                       871   1,891   3,920   7,803       12,649   17,591   23,917  30,470   36,592-
1/ Based on the actual balance sheet at "September 30, 1976, projected-to December 31,-1976.
/ Refer to the sub-loan of K£20,000 to S.K. Muriuki & Co., later cancelled, which was written off by two equal
provisions for loss of K£10,000.
EAPID
Anril, 1977.



KENYA - IIM
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (073-81)
Actual                                    Projected
1973    19714   1975     1976 J      1977I th    1979    128 0 ∞          19f1
l.iabilities & Equity-------
Current Liabilities                   4      13       80      105         389      611       849   1,o9.0   1,341
Long-tenr Debt
Poreign Borrowings                -      1OO  1,443    4,277        7,631   11,912   16,557  211,332   26,330
Local Borrowings                  -       _        -        -          150      300       450     581      6914
Total long-term  Debt             -      400   1,443   '4,277        7,781   12,212   17,007  21,913   27,024
Equity
Shiare Capital                      873   1,500   2,335    3,177        4,000    4,000   4,918   5,834    6,000
Accumulated Reserves (losses)         (6)    (22)     (3)      29          64      153       328     618    1,012
Total Equity                     867   1,478   2,332    3,206        4,064    4,153    5,246   6,452    7,012
Government^Loans or Grants           -      _         65      215         h1S5     615       815   1,,015    1,215
Total Liability & Equity         871  ],,891   3,920    7,803       12j649   17,591   23,917  30,470   36,592
j/ Based on the actual balance sheet at September 30, 1976, projected to December 31, 1976.
EAPID
April, 1977.



KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
Actual and Projected, Sources and Uses of Funds Statements (1973-1980)
(Kit000)
Actual                                     Projected
1973    197h    1975    17T/         1977      197b     1979    1980      1982
Sources
Net Profit                             (6)    (16)      19       32          35        69      175      290      394
Depreciation                            2        2       5       8           12       14        16       17       18
Provision for Possible Losses          -        -       10      10           53        56       64       71       77
Funds from Operations                   (L)    (14)     34       50         100       159      255      378      489
Drawdown of:
SShare Capital                     873     627      835     842          823       -        918     916       166
Government Grants or Loans          -        -       65     150          200       200      200      200      200
Local Borrowings                             -       -        -          150       150      150      150      150
Foreign Borrowings                  -       400   1,043   2,834        3,524    4,597    5,359   5,980    6,816
Loan Collections:
Local                                                                     -         -        31       96      136
Foreign                             _                -      _            170       316      714   1,205    1,818
Total Sources                  869   1,013   1,977   3,876         4,967    5,422    7,627   8,925    9,775
-_= ===,=-        a=== _=  ==  = = =   -== =---=====t
j Based on the actual sources and uses of funds statement at September 30, 1976, projected to
December 31, 1976.
EAPID
April, 1977.



ANNEX 12
page 2
Kenya IDE
Actual and Projected, Sources and Uses
of Funds Statements ('73->80)
Actual                                   Projected
1973     1974      975     m6 1/ 1977         197T      199      19M0    1951
Uses
Disbursements of:
- Foreign Currency Loans              -       400    1,040    2,818    3,524    4,597    5,359    5,980   6,816
- Local Currency Loans                -        -        20      232       519      321       323      368      337
- Equity Investments                  -       220      472       721    1,276      657       745      710      545
Loan Repayments:
- Local Borrowings                    -        -        -         -        -         -        -        19       37
- Foreign Borrowings                  -        -        -         -       170      316       714    1,205   1,818
Purchase of Fixed Assets              10       16        12       14       32         4       11       10       14
Total Uses                         10      636   1,544   3,785    5,521    5,895    7,152    8,292   9,567
Increase (Decrease) in Working
Capital:                             859      377      433        91     (554)    (473)      475      633     208
1/ Based on the actual sources and uses of funds statement at September 30, 1976,projected to December 31, 1976.
EAPID
April, 1977.



KENYA
INUJSTRIA  DEVLOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1973-1981)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    }981
A. Income Statement as a % of Average
Total Assets
Gross Income                               5.0     4.9     8.5      8.3     8.5      8.9     9.3      9.6     9.7
Less Financial Expenses                     -      0.6     3.L      4.2     5.0      5.7     6.1      6.2     6.3
Administrative Expenses (including
Depreciation)                          6.4      5.4     4.1      3.0     2.4     1.8      1.4     1.2      1.0
Operating Profit                          (1.4)   (1.2)    1.0      1.1     1.1      1.4     1.8      2.2     2.4
Provisions for Possible Losses             -       -       0.3      0.2     0.5      0.4     0.3      0.3     0.2
Less Taxes                                 -       -       -        0.4     0.3      0.5     0.7      0.9     1.0
Net Profit                                (1.4)   (1.2)    0.7      0.5     0.3      0.5     0.8      1.0     1.2
B. 'elected Income and Cost Items
Dividend Income % of Average
Equity Portfolio                       -        -       3.5     2.8      1.4     1.7      2.8     3.6      4.1
Income from Loans % of Average
Loan Portfolio                          -       5.5    15.1    11.9    }1.5    11.5    11.4    11.4    11.3
Cos0  of Debt % of Average Total Ibbt      -       4.0    10.7      8.6     8.6      8.6     8.7      8.6     8.7
C. Profit after Tax as a % of Average
Equity                                    (1.4)   (1.4)    1.0      1.1     0.9      1.9     3.2      4.3     5.0
D. Structural Ratios
Term Debt/Equity
with Government Funds as Grants        -        0.3:1   0.6:1   1.3:1   1.7:1   2.6:1   2.8:1   2.9:1   3.3s1
with Goverment Funds as Loans           -       0.3:1   0.6:1   1.4:1   2.0:1   3.1:1   3.4:1   3.6:1   4.Otl
Interest and Principal Coverage  /         -        _       1.71    1.43    1.23    1.21    1.21    1.21    1.20
Current Ratio                            216:1    96:1    22:1-   18:1       4.1si   2.2:1   2.4:1   2.7:1   2.5:1
j   This debt service coverage is defined by the formula:
Funds from operations + Loan Collections + Interest on Borrowings_ (  - Tax Factor)
Loan Repayments + Interest on- Morrowirgs x (i - Tax Factor-
EAPID
April, 1977.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (IDB)
FINANCIAL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
1.        The financial sector in Kenya's development prior to 1973, while
comparatively advanced in its structure and scope, has tended to benefit
the urban formal sector. Most private credit tended to flow to sectors
offering the highest financial returns without specific regard to economic
and social benefits. In recent years the Government has exercised con-
siderable pressure to draw financial resources into programs of high
economic priority.
2.        The Bank had urged the Government to reorient policies in order
to promote efficiency in both mobilizing and allocating financial resources.
The approach favored to achieve this included the use of market signals to
draw resources to such priority areas as small-scale enterprises, export
oriented industry and manufacturing based on local products. A general
increase in interest rates was proposed along witlh a restructuring of the
operations and objectives of financial intermediaries to better serve
priority needs. 1/ While agreeing in principal with these proposals,
the Government preoccupied more recently with balancing anti-inflation
and anti-recession measures with economic growth ohjectives, was reluctant
to move interest beyond a few points. In place of relying on interest
rates, tile authorities used the Central Bank lending guidelines, selective
credit controls, direct Government participation and restrictions on foreign
borrowing in Kenyan banks for directing credit to priority areas. Annex 15
contains the principal interest rates in Kenya as of June 30, 1976. Besides,
financial institutions, particularly the IDB, ICDC and its subsidiary the
KIE, and the Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), have shown a willingness to
develop and follow through with programs for priority sectors.
3.        The current financial policies have focussed on controlling the
rate of inflation (para. 2.01), resisting the deterioration of the balance
of payments through the selective manipulation of credit and assuring the
flow of resources to key productive sectors: agriculture, manufactured
exports and small-scale enterprises. The main elements of the financial
policies are:
a)   Limiting the expansion of total domestic credit to an average
annual rate of 16%, considered to be the maximum level possible
without generating excessive inflation;
1/   The Second Decade:  A Basic Economic Report on Kenya, 201-KE
January 15, 1974.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
b)   limiting the overall expansion of credit to private sector and
public institutions 1/ to an average annual rate of 13% with the
above mentioned key productive sectors exempted from the ceiling
(by June 1976, commercial banks were instructed to increase
credit for agriculture, small enterprises and imported raw
material for industrial exporters to the equivalent of 17% of
net deposit liabilities);
c)   restricting Government borrowings from the banking system to
Sh350 million during FY1975-1976, but allowing seasonal
increases to meet budget requirements;
d)   limiting the sum of currency issued and non-bank private
deposit liabilities (net domestic assets) in the accounts
of the Central Bank;
e)   raising the liquidity rates of commercial banks and non-bank
financial institutions from 15 to 19% to control credit
expansion in 1976 and to allow for a reserve for financing
the Government deficit.
Central Bank figures suggest that only some of the above credit targets
were achieved in 1976. In fact, total domestic credit increased to 18%
while credit to private sector and public institutions increased by 14%.
Credit of commercial banks to agriculture was around 13% of net deposit
liabilities, instead of 17%. Government borrowings far exceeded the
Central Bank's guidelines and the Central Bank expressed fears that the
private sector would be crowded out of the market. However, by the end
of 1976 the pressure of Government borrowings appears to have eased and
the private sector and public institutions are now receiving credit in
accordance with the 1976 guidelines.
4.        The major developments in the financial system during 1975/1976
fiscal year the devaluation of the Kenya Shilling, and the rapid expansion
in Government expenditures with the resulting pressures on the banking system.
Although there was a sharp rate of growth in the money supply, real money
balances declined during 1975 because of the even faster increase in the
inflation rate (para. 2.01). Within the manufacturing sector (as opposed
to the rest of the economy, (para. 2.02), banking credit to the private
sector and public institutions had dropped from KShl,153 million in FY1974
to KSh 294 million in FY1975, but had regained considerably by FY1976 to
a level of Sh964 million. An illustration of the recent upturn in demand
for credit in manufacturing sector is the comparison between loans and
advances to private enterprises totalling KSh4O.2 million at the quarter
ending December 1974 and KSh 60.1 million at the quarter ending December
1975. This trend persisted over 1976 and comparative figures for the June
1975 and June 1976 quarterly periods are KSh68.1 million and KSh8O.1 million
respectively.
1/   This fraction of the total domestic credit exclude credit to the
Government.



ANNEX 15
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD. (IDB)
Principal Interest Rates
(As at 30th June 1976)
Rate %
CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA
1.  Rediscount Rate for Treasury Bills                                    6.475
2.  Advances against Treasury Bills                                       7.000
3.  Bills and Notes under Crop Finance Scheme
-  Discounts                                                          6.500
-  Advances                                                           6.500
4.   Other Bills and Notes
-  Discounts                                                          7.00
-  Advances                                                           7.00
5.   Advances against Kenya Government Securities                          7.00
KENYA COMMERCIAL BANKS:
1. Deposits
(i)  Time (a) Minimum-30 days (7 days' notice)
-  Sh. 200,000 up to Sh. 500,000                       5.125
-  Sh. 500,000 and over                                5.125
(b) 3 to less than 6 months                                5.125
(c) 6 to less than 9 months                                5.375
(d) 9 months and up to and including 12 months             5.625
(e) 12 months and over minimum Sh. 100,000 to
Sh. 250,000 maximum                                    5.875
(f) 12 months and over minimum Sh. 250,000           Individual Banks
free to determine rate
(ii)  Savings                                                          5.00
2.  Loans and Advances (minimum)                                          8.00
OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS:
1. Kenya Post Office Savings Bank
-  Deposits                                                           5.00
2. Agricultural Finance Corporation
-  Loans (AFC)                                                        9.00
GMR*                                                              10.00
3. Hire Purchase Companies and Merchant Banks
-  Deposits (various periods)                                     5.00 -  8.00
-  Loans                                                         10.00 - 12.00
4. Building Societies**
-  Deposits (various periods)                                     6.00 -  8.50
-  Loans                                                         8.00 - 12.00
*    Guaranteed minimum return.
**   Includes institutions not registered under the Building Societies Act,
but whose primary function is to finance the purchase of property.



ANNEX 16
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPI-"T BANK LT2, (I1D)
Estiatet   Dn    $eb.4 t. j  Prepse Lean
Frou Jaary I to D.)cae*r 31                         (US$'O00)
1977
Third Quarter                                          500
Fourth Quarter                                       1,100
D78
First Quarter                                        1,200
Second Quartegr                                     1,300
Third Quarter                                        1,400
Fourth Quarter                                       1,500
First Quarter                                       1,550
Second Quarter                                      1,600
Thitd Quarter                                        1,650
Foutrth Quarter                                      1,70
1980
First Quarter                                       1,750
Second Quarter                                      1,800
Third Quarter                                        1,850
Fourth Quarter                                      1402
Total                                           20,0
EAPID
April, 1977



