PILE COpy                               Document of
FILE Copy                    -The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2085-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRD LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
May 18, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya Sh          =         US$0.12
US$1.00           =         KSh8.35
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the U.S.
Dollar/Kenya Shilling exchange rate is subject to
change.   Conversions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to KSh8.35 which is close to the short-term
average-exchange rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st    -    June 30th
ABBREVIATIONS
IDB    -    Industrial Deivelopment Bank
ICDC   -    Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
DFCK   -    Development Finance Company of Kenya
DEC    -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fUr Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit
CDC    -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
KIE    -    Kenya Industrial Estates Ltd.
ECGD   -    Export Credit Guarantee Department
EIB    -    European Investment Bank



FOR OFFICIAL ULSE ur L I
Page 1 of 3
KENYA - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                   Industrial Development Bank
GUARANTOR:                  Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:                     Loan:   US$20.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                      Repayable in accordance with the amortization
schedule for sub-loans and investments for which
withdrawals from the loan account are approved
or requested. Interest rate would be 8.20%
per annum.
RELENDING TERMS:            IDB would relend the proceeds from the loan at an
interest rate of 11% per annum on foreign currency
and 12% per annum on local currency or at such
other rates as may be agreed from time to time
between the Borrower and the Bank.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:        The purpose of the proposed project is to assist
the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) in imple-
menting investment programs, as well as Kenya's
industrial development. More specifically, the
project will enable IDB:
(a) to provide term financing on suitable terms
to mediui and large-scale manufacturing
projects in Kenya that have been well-conceived
on economic, financial, and technical grounds;
and
(b) to maintain and increase the momentum generated
to date in establishing IDB as a major industrial
development finance institution and to enhance
its ability to carry out its future activities
in the framework of Kenya's evolving industrial
strategy.
FINAL DATE FOR
PROJECT SUBMISSIONS:        July 1, 1980
FREE LIMIT:                 $600,000 equivalent for individual sub-loans;
$4.0 million equivalent aggregate limit.
DEBT COVENANTS:             Maximum debt/equity ratio of 4:1.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 3
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:               1977    1978    1979    1980
-------US$ Million----------
Annual      1.6      5.4     6.5     6.5
Cumulative  1.6     7.0     13.5    20.0
PROCUREMENT:                      Through normal commercial channels.
APPRAISAL REPORT:                 Report No. 1498-KE, dated May 5, 1977



Page 3 of 3
Year Ending December 31               1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
~~~~~~~------------(KSh Million) -------------
Projected Commitments:
Loans                                   89.4   77.8  113.5  120.4  134.4   154.4
Equity                                  19.3   20.5  .10.0   17.0   13.0    10.0
Total                               108.7 :98.3: :123.5: 137.4  147.4  164.4
Projected Income Statements:
Total Revenue                            9.8   17.4   26.9   38.7   52.0   65.2
Financial and Administrative Expenses    8.4   15.1   22.6   31.1   41.4   49.3
Provisions                               0.2    1.0    1.1    1.3    1.4    1.5
Income Tax (Assumed Tax Exempt)          0.5    0.8    1.4    2.8    4.7    6.4
Net Income                               0.6    0.7    1.8    3.5    5.8     7.9
As a % of net worth                   1.1    0.9    1.9    3.2    4.3    5.0
Projected Balance Sheet:
Current Assets                          37.3   31.9   26.9    4.1   58.6   67.8
Portfolio                              118.0  220.0  324.0  436.4  550.1  663.4
Fixed Assets (net)                       0.7    1.1    0.9    0.8    0.6    0.6
Total Assets                        156.0  253.0  351.8  478.3  609.3  731.8
Current Liabilities                      2.1    7.9   12.2   17.0   21.8   26.8
Long-term Debt                          89.8  163.9  256.5  356.4  458.5  546.8
Net worth                               64.1   81.3   83.0  104.9  129.0  140.2
Total Liabilities and New           156.0  252.8  351.7  478.3  609.3  713.8
Net Worth
Debt/equity ratio                      1.4:1  2.0:1  3.1:1  3.4:1  3.6:1  4.0:1



i



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
third Loan to the Industrial Development Bank with the guarantee of the
Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$20 million to help finance the
foreign exchange component of investments of this development finance
company in large and medium-scale industrial projects in Kenya. The
interest on the Loan would be 8.20% per annum. Amortization will conform
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to
the specific sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, which would
have a maximum maturity of 15 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects"
(Report No. 1284a-KE, dated October 15, 1976) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in October 1976. The report provided background
documentation for the Consultative Group Meeting on Kenya, held in
November 1976.
3.       With an average per capita income of $220 in 1975, Kenya still
belongs among the poorest countries in the world, despite an excellent
rate of growth of 6.6% per year from Independence until 1973. But growth
slowed down in 1974 and was brdught to a near standstill in 1975, as
accelerating world -inft-aGt-ion (including rising oil prices) coupled with
persistent'drought'reduced Kenya's import capacity and economic activity.
The country now faces two basic challenges in its development strategy:
how to resume rapid growth and,'secondly, how to ensure at the same time
that the lowest income earners share in economic and social progress.
Weather conditions improved in 1976 bringing growth back to about 5% and
unusually high coffee-prices as well as depressed import growth helped to
reduce the deficit on-the current account of the balance of payments, thus
providing some temporary relief. 'However, this does not eliminate the
problem of a structural balance of payments constraint.



- 2 -
4.         Economic development will have to follow a different path in the
future in order to combine rapid growth including progress for the lower income
groups with a lower import dependency. Promotion of rapid growth was the major
instrument through which the Government sought to achieve economic as well as
social objectives in the first decade. More investment was to create better
employment opportunities and higher production was to widen the tax basis thus
allowing more public outlays for educational and health facilities. However,
Kenya's Third Development Plan FY74-78 already recognized that past economic
performance had brought significant benefits to the lower-income groups, but
the poor had not yet benefitted as much as desired. The slowdown in economic
growth in 1974-75 made it difficult for the Government to promote equity because
maintaining production required its full attention. Kenya's development strategy
should balance the reliance on high growth rates to bring about improved employ-
ment and income-earning opportunities to lower-income groups with a more direct
approach to enhance the productivity of the poor. The Bank intends to give
particular attention to this question in its future economic work.
5.         The Government is now restructuring its development strategy and
implementing the restructuring program. The restructuring will have to be brought
about first and foremost in agriculture, the largest sector in Kenya's economy.
In the past, agriculture contributed in significant ways to rapid growth,
increases in productivity of lower-income earners and distribution of development
benefits; not only did the sector grow at an average annual rate of 4.7% in total
and 6% in monetary agriculture, the Government also brought several hundred
thousand small farmers into the market economy through special programs in coffee,
tea, pyrethrum and dairy production. Nevertheless, this still left the majority
of the rural population (those living in areas with lower agricultural potential)
in poverty. To assist effectively many of these people in raising farm produc-
tivity and incomes, agricultural support services have to be progressively
extended from high and medium to low and marginal potential agriculture.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and 1975 and Recovery in 1976
6.         In 1974, Kenya experienced with many other countries a serious setback
to its development efforts when soaring world inflation, increasing oil prices
and stagnating export demand coupled with adverse weather resulted in a large
balance of payments deficit and growth slowed down to around 4%. The terms of
trade dropped sharply, the widening trade gap led to an overall deficit and Kenya
had to use part of its foreign exchange reserves, notwithstanding IMF assistance.
At the same time, domestic inflation rose to 15%. In 1975, GDP hardly grew at
all (0.7%) due mainly to disappointing performance in the agricultural sector
where the incentives of higher producer prices were frustrated by adverse weather
for all crops except maize. Employment in the modern sector declined while
inflation continued at a high level of 19%. The terms of trade deteriorated
further but due to low levels of economic activity, imports declined and the
current account deficit as well as the overall deficit were considerably smaller
than in 1974. Economic activity resumed with a 5% growth of GDP in 1976, thanks
to an 8% growth in agriculture following fair weather and higher prices for
several major crops. Also, manufacturing growth improved to 7%. Employment
grew by 4%, while inflation slowed down considerably. Imports grew only slowly,
while exports increased sharply thanks to exceptionally high coffee prices. The
deficit on current account decreased and Kenya's overall balance of payments
showed a surplus in 1976.



-3-
7.         Throughout the period 1974-1976, the Government has managed to
maintain Kenya's relatively high investments and savings levels, by containing
in particular private consumption growth. Public consumption has, however,
increased as government tasks are expanding steadily. Kenya's budget policy
had traditionally been conservative. Until the early 1970's, Kenya managed
to boost public savings, thus allowing public investments to increase with a
relatively small supplement from foreign financing and very little short-term
credit. The effort to maintain the same investment momentum in the face of
high inflation led to a change in this favorable situation. The overall budget
deficit increased from $101 million in FY74 to $249 million in FY76 and even
somewhat higher in FY77. Larger financing by short-term credit and increasing
recourse to foreign sources became necessary.
Restructuring Program
8.         The Government responded to the economic crisis in 1974, first, by
introducing measures which minimized the loss of reserves and controlled
domestic demand, including sales taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the
increases in oil prices to users and a freeze in government recruitment.
Secondly, since the Development Plan had been overtaken by events, it formulated
a medium-term Restructuring Program with more modest growth and equity targets.
Achieving these targets requires restraining consumption in favor of investments,
lowering Kenya's high import-dependence and making the economy more export-
oriented. For the manufacturing sector, this means reorientation of industrial
growth towards greater use of domestic instead of imported resources and promot-
ing efficiency in production for the local market and, increasingly, for exports.
9.         The Government has begun to implement the Restructuring Program.
With regard to budgetary policies, procedures to ensure proper controls on
expenditure have been strengthened. In order to enhance the production and
employment impact of public investments, the Government has shifted resources
from infrastructure outlays which increase production only gradually to more
directly productive sectors, such as agriculture and manufacturing. The latter
sector's share in the development budget increased from 29% in FY74 to 45% in
FY76. Simultaneously, in highway construction which so far has been highly
capital-intensive, projects have now been started using more labor-intensive
technology. In its efforts to influence private sector development, in
particular agricultural production and incomes, the Government has introduced
substantial farmgate price increases in 1975 and 1976. A continuing and
systematic review of these prices is now being mounted. These higher prices
benefitting the farmers are in most cases passed on to the domestic consumers.
This has helped to correct the adverse rural-urban terms of trade and avoid
subsidies to be carried by the Treasury. The Government has also introduced
duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and capital goods to
encourage a more rational protective system; it has increased the sales tax on
luxury goods and is paying an export subsidy of 10% to stimulate manufactured
exports. Last but not least, the Government -- in conjunction with Tanzania
and Uganda -- devalued the Kenya shilling by 14% in October 1975.



-4-
10.       Despite these efforts more vigorous Government action remains to be
taken in some areas. Future industrial growth will depend on the promotion of
efficient industries, some of which may produce import-substitutes but most of
which will be required to compete in export markets outside the East African
Community. At the present time, the manufacturing sector is almost completely
dependent on imported capital equipment and spare parts, and heavily dependent
on imported raw materials and intermediate products. The linkages between
manufacturing and agriculture have not yet been fully exploited. There is also
a need to change trade policies and incentives which presently favor the import-
substitution industries at the expense of others. The Government is starting to
encourage small-and medium-scale industries which are more likely to utilize
domestic resources and are less dependent on imported capital equipment than
large-scale enterprises; the International Finance Corporation has signed an
agreement with a commercial bank to promote medium-scale enterprises and a Bank
project to finance small-scale enterprises is presently under preparation. The
Government is preparing a comprehensive industrial program and intends to under-
take in-depth studies of special industrial issues such as promotion of appro-
priate technology and resource-based industries.
11.       The Government continues to make efforts to mobilize additional
resources for the public sector but in view of the already high tax effort it
may prove difficult to keep up with rapidly rising demand for both Government
services and investments. Special pressures on the budget at this time derive
from the Government's intentions to bring more services to the rural areas as
well as cost escalation on many development projects. The Government will,
therefore, require more external assistance. Moreover, after having held down
wages and salaries in the public sector for several years, the Government is
likely to experience difficulties in devising wages and incomes policies which
effectively hold domestic inflation below world inflation.
External Debt
12.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 6% (including a
notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations) is
expected to rise to about 10% by 1985. Including the notional share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 31% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and IDA
14%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 38% and the IDA share to 15%. Debt
service payments to the Bank are about 30% of total debt service payments; IDA's
share is less than 1%. These two figures are projected to increase to 39% and
1%, respectively, by 1985. These reflect the gradual switch by other donors
from loans to straight grants or to loans on very concessional terms in recent
years as well as the Government's conservative commercial borrowing policy.
Despite the considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that it must finance
from external sources a substantial part of the costs of the development program,
including local costs.



5
East African Community
13.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up institutions,
policies, and procedures for operating the common market and the large infra-
structure services, and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been
followed, however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the
distribution of net benefits derived from the Community. The infrastructure
services were hampered by restrictive tariff policies; services declined, and
Partner States subventions were required for the Railways from time to time to
keep the services running. The poor performance of the common services in
transport and communications also impaired trade and general movement of goods
within the countries, affecting the general economic development program.
These difficulties were aggravated by the severe budgetary and balance of pay-
ments constraints faced by all three Partner States in the past few years. As
a consequence, there has been a continuous diminution in the authority of the
Community institutions. Failure to agree on arrangements for transfer of funds
between the Regional Offices and the service Headquarters has often paralyzed
the operation of the Headquarters, affected their morale and on a number of
occasions led to delays in meeting their external obligations.
14.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental political
and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community, that a
review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed for this
purpose in November 1975 but adjourned sine die in November 1976 without being
able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future structure of the EAC.
Meanwhile,although no de jure action has been taken, further deterioration in
Community relationships has led to a further dismantling of the Corporations.
The Railway Headquarters has in effect been disbanded and the nationals working
in the Headquarters have joined their respective Regional Offices. Recently,
the East African Airways Corporation (EAA) collapsed in part due to the lack of
effective mechanism for interstate transfer of funds. The Headquarters of the
East African Harbours has existed in name only for at least a year with the
Ports authorities in Mombasa and Dar es Salaam functioning autonomously.    The
East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has so far functioned with
a semblance of Headquarters responsibilities but is now fast delegating its
headquarters functions to its regional offices. The respective regional branches
provide the services,and domestic development programs in this sector are not
likely to be impaired.
15.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet debt service
obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last year for about a month.
Except for a second line of credit to the EADB in March 1976, the other corpora-
tions have received no new loans from the Bank since 1973. A presentation of
the recent development of EAC was made to the Executive Directors in a meeting
on March 15, 1977,and subsequently a report was distributed to the Executive
Directors on March 18, 1977. The Bank has continued to disburse on its 5 ongoing
loans to the Corporations and as of April 30, 1977, $36.9 million remain to be
disbursed.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP'S OPERATIONS IN KENYA
16.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 24 Bank loans and 21 IDA credits amounting
to $393.9 million and $179.7 million, respectively, supporting 39 operations.
In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling $244.8
million which have been extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecommunications and finance for industry), operated regionally for the
three Partner States of the East African Community. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and East African Corporations,
a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure the
economy. In connection with loan and credit negotiations, the Government has
taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring Program. On the insti-
tutional side, the planning and implementation capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture has been strengthened, the Cotton Board has been reorganized, a Land
Use Committee has been set up and the National Committee on Educational Objectives
and Priorities, established in connection with the Third Education Project, has
now completed its work. However, progress in shifting the focus of the Govern-
ment's industrial policies from import-substitution to domestic resource-based
production capable of competing in export markets is slow.
18.       Significant progress has also been made in restructuring the Bank's
lending program towards the directly productive sectors, in giving it a rural
focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distribution objectives.
The first Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP), approved in
July 1976, is aimed directly at small and subsistence farmers. The Rural Access
Roads Project, approved at the same time as the IADP, is financing labor-
intensive infrastructural developments. During this fiscal year a Sugar Project
and a Third Agricultural Credit Project were approved. This year the Bank also
supported the tourism sector in Kenya for the first time -- an effort which is
intended to help Kenya further exploit its considerable foreign exchange earning
potential. The industrial lending program is now also progressing well. A
small-scale industry project, prepared with substantial Bank staff assistance,
has been appraised and identification of a large-scale industrial project is now
under way. Assistance is also being given in the preparation of high priority
infrastructural projects, among which are the Nairobi Water Supply Extension and
the Rural Water Supply Project, and for additional housing in Nairobi, Mombasa
and Kisumu through the upgrading and sites and services approach.
19.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.   One
major exception is the Second Livestock Project which is suffering from inadequate
producer prices as well as organizational difficulties reflecting in part the
complexity of the project. Progress of the Group Farms Rehabilitation Project has
also been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners
to participate, but this has now improved. Finally, there have been serious
cost overruns, most notably on the Nairobi Airport Project.



-7-
20.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies in Kenya:
Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties Ltd.; Tourism Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit line for medium
and small-scale industries was extended to the Commercial Bank of Kenva. As of
April 30, 1977, IFC held for its own account $28.7 million comprising $20.7
million of loans and $8.0 million of equity.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
The Industrial Development Strategy
21.       While the agricultural sector will continue to dominate the economy over
the next few years, the industrial sector will assume an increasingly important
role in its contribution to overall GDP and employment. The industrial sector now
contributes about 12% of GDP, has grown rapidly and has become the single largest
contributor to GDP within the monetary economy. The Government therefore places
high priority on the development of a strong manufacturing sector. Its long-range
objective is to support sectoral diversification, urban decentralization and
Kenyanization.
22.       Until recently, Kenya has followed an industrialization policy which,
through the mechanisms of protective tariffs on final consumer goods and import
licensing, encouraged import-substitution industries. The result of this policy was
that industry grew rapidly in the 1960's and early 1970's as the more obvious import-
substitution opportunities were exploited. In the process, however, the industrial
sector developed a heavy reliance not only on imported capital equipment and spare
parts, but also on imported raw materials and intermediate inputs. At the same
time, manufacturing contributed only modestly to exports. The need for policy
adjustment was strongly reinforced by the terms of trade crisis of 1974. The Govern-
ment has recognized the need for a more balanced industrialization policy for some
time and as early as the publication of the 1974-1978 Development Plan announced its
intention to shift its policy focus to domestic resource based production and export
orientation. Small-scale enterprises would also receive more direct encouragement.
23.       These objectives were restated in the 1975 Restructuring Program
(para. 8 above). Several steps to adjust existing policies have already been
introduced; these include changes in import duties and sales taxes, and an
export bonus for manufactured products. Further changes in price incentives
are under consideration, but the Government has to proceed with caution because
abrupt exposure of existing industries to a different policy climate could have
adverse short-term effects on production and employment. A comprehensive policy
package which is expected to include inter alia measures designed to encourage
use of appropriate technology, resource-based industries, better capacity
utilization, rural industrialization and employment creation, is now under
preparation. It will be submitted to the Cabinet in the form of a Sessional Paper
in about a year. A Bank-financed consultant visited Kenya in 1976 to help the
Government in the preparation of this package and it is expected that the Bank's
involvement will continue.



-8-
24.       As part of its industrial development effort, Kenya established
the Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre (ISPC) in 1970, as an agency of
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, to identify, develop and evaluate
new projects and to possibly assist in their implementation. ISPC was
initially intended to concentrate on promoting labor-intensive and small-
scale projects, but is now being oriented towards larger industrial projects.
A major task of ISPC would be to speed up the review process by providing
the initial evaluation of projects ideas which development finance institu-
tions such as the Industrial Development Bank of Kenya (IDB), Development
Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK) and the Industrial and Commercial Development
Corporation of Kenya (ICDC) could consider. ISPC's effectiveness has been
somewhat limited by the lack of staff and resources; measures are under way
to improve this institution.
Development Finance Institutions
25.       The development of industrial financial institutions has generally
responded in an effective manner to the financing requirements of industries in
Kenya. Accordingly, Kenya has a rather sophisticated and well-developed
financial network for a developing country. This has in part been due to the
Government's openness to private sector initiative, and also due to a Central
Bank policy which has not unduly restricted the growth of such a network.
Institutions involved in the industrial financing include commercial banks,
development banks, a small stock exchange, merchant banks and hire purchase
companies. While commercial banks have provided significant amounts of credit
to the industrial sector, primarily as short-term money for working capital
purposes, they have not provided term financing in the quantities needed in the
economy.
26.       The three development banks in which the Government participates     are
playing an increasing role in industrial financing and,in particular, are assist-
ing the Government's priority areas such as agro-processing, manufactured exports,
and small-scale enterprises. However, with the exception of some steps now being
taken by IDB in mobilizing long-term private savings for industrial development
(para. 45), these institutions have done little in this field. On the contrary,
they have concentrated upon building up their organizational and appraisal capacity
in order to be able to ensure the efficient utilization of government money and
foreign borrowing and assistance. However, now that these initial objectives have
largely been accomplished, it is important that the development finance institutions
give more attention towards mobilizing additional domestic private savings so
that they act as true financial intermediaries. A brief review of these institu-
tions is given in paras. 27-32 below .
27.       The Industrial Development Bank:    The Industrial Development Bank
(IDB) was established in 1973 under the sponsorship of the Bank, Government
of Kenya and the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC),
to finance medium-and large-scale industrial projects including mining,
agro-industries, engineering and tourism. IDB is seen as an institution
that can assist in promoting the country's industrial development through one
or a combination of the following: (a) provision of medium-and long-term
loan finance; (b) direct equity investment; (c) provision of guarantees



- 9 -
for loans from other sources; and (d) underwriting security issues, share
stocks and similar obligations. It would make its capabilities and
experience available to Government in industrial activities. In playing its
role in this field, IDB would seek ways of effectively collaborating with
ISPC (para. 24), through consultations and exchange of information. As the
next few paragraphs indicate, apart from the Development Finance Company of
Kenya (para. 30) which also deals in medium-and large-scale industrial projects,
the rest of the financial institutions deal in specific aspects of financing out-
side IDB's immediate field of interest.
28.       Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC).      ICDC
was established as a statutory corporation in 1955 to promote and assist
commercial activities, with emphasis on the transfer of business owned by
non-Kenyans into Kenyan hands and providing financial assistance to them.
A large proportion of ICDC's portfolio is invested in small-scale enterprises,
with a smaller share to medium- and large-scale enterprises, geared towards
Kenyanizing the manufacturing and commercial sectors of the country.
29.       The Kenyan Industrial Estates Ltd. (KIE), a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the ICDC, was established to promote African small-scale enterprises
through the provision of infrastructure, technical services and credit (for
machinery and equipment), mainly through the creation of industrial estates
and leasing of shop or factory spaces to estate participants at highly
concessionary terms. KIE is therefore the main institution concerned with
all aspects of small-scale enterprise development. An important program of
KIE has been the establishment of four Rural Industrial Development Centres
(RIDC) aimed at improving the operations of rural artisans and encouraging
the creation of new enterprises where commercial banks would normally be
reluctant to invest. In addition to the RIDCs, new workshop clusters would
be erected in an effort to organize the production, operations and marketing
for artisans.
30.       Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK).   DFCK was established
in 1963 to meet the need for promoting and financing medium- to large-scale
industrial projects. Its share capital is held at 25% each by ICDC and
three overseas development corporations: Commonwealth Development Corporation
of the United Kingdom, Deutsche Gesellschaft fUr Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit
of the Federal Republic of Germany, and Financierings Maatschappij voor
Ontwikkeling n.v. of the Netherlands. DFCK's resources though somewhat
limited have financed projects that are well diversified in agro-industries,
manufacturing, tourism and textile projects.
31.       East African Development Bank (EADB).   EADB was established in
1968 under the Treaty for East African Cooperation between Uganda, Kenya and
Tanzania. Its main purpose is to promote industries of a regional nature
geared specifically to the larger East African Community market.    Each
Government holds 31% of the share capital with the remainder distributed
among several foreign institutions. An important source of foreign exchange
for EADB has been the World Bank with two loans (US$8 million in 1972 and
US$15 million in 1976), followed by Swedish aid (SIDA) and the African
Development Bank (ADB).



- 10 -
Commercial Banking
32.       Apart from the development finance institutions discussed in the
preceding paragraphs, commercial banks have played and continue to play a
specific role in industrial financing in Kenya. Thirteen commercial banks
currently operate in Kenya,of which three are wholly Government-owned and
the remainder are branches of foreign banks. While commercial banks
occasionally make medium-to longer-term loans and equity investments through
their subsidiaries, they are primarily engaged in providing short-term
finance of less than one year to manufacturing, agriculture, domestic commerce,
and import-export. In 1975, about 22% of commercial bank credit to the
private sector went to manufacturing. This share of allocation has remained
about the same over the last five years and represents the largest proportion
after trade and commerce. In recent years, the Government has influenced the
lending practices of commercial banks through specific instructions affecting
their overall lending operations by establishing standards for increased
commercial bank lending in agriculture, small-scale enterprises and other
priority activities in the manufacturing sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed loan to IDB would be the third project financed by the
Bank; the first two projects were approved in 1973 and in 1975 (Loan No. 946-KE
and Loan No. 1148-KE). A report entitled "Appraisal of the Industrial
Development Bank (IDB) - Kenya", dated May 5, 1977, is being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The project was appraised in December
1976. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1977 and the Kenyan
Delegation was led by Mr. Mwendwa, Director, Industrial Development Bank. A
loan and project summary is at the beginning of this report.
Board of Directors
34.       With IDB's first capital increase (para.43), the size of its Board
of Directors was expanded from seven to nine. Recently, a new Chairman from
the private business sector was appointed. IDB's Board includes Permanent
Secretaries from the Ministries of Finance and Planning and Commerce and
Industry and the Executive Director of ICDC as ex-officio Directors, the Managing
Director of IDB, and five Directors appointed for a three-year term from
outside the Government. With the appointment of a Chairman from the private
business sector and addition of two new Directors from commercial banking
and insurance, it is expected that the Board's role would be further enhanced.
Management and Staff
35.       IDB has a competent management and staff.   Its organizational
structure consists of divisions dealing with Investigations (Appraisals),
Accounting and Investments (Supervision). In addition, plans are under way
to create a separate Legal Service Section, and appoint an Establishment
(Administrative) Officer to oversee IDB's physical facilities needs and various
support services, and an Economist to advise on industrial policy and project
analysis.



36.       A major new addition to IDB's organization would the establishment
of the proposed Project Advisory Services (PAS) Unit. Its objective would
be to fill the increasing need within Kenya to provide short-term managerial,
accounting, and other technical advice to new entrepreneurs particularly
Kenyans, who otherwise possess the necessary capital and promoter initiative.
The Government recognizes that such a service is essential for promoting the
country's industrial development. IDB would, for a fee, assist the medium-
sized Kenyan enterprises (with total project costs ranging from KSh2.O
million to KSh1O.O million) in their establishment or in improving their
performance through the adoption of better management techniques and tools.
The unit would be staffed by an experienced Senior Project Officer (possibly
an expatriate) and two Project Officers.
37.       During appraisal, the mission found the present IDB's staff structure
to be adequate. However, in view of the anticipated increase in its level of
operations, agreement was reached during negotiations on a new staffing plan to
absorb the increased workload.
Current Operations
38.       IDB has become one of the fastest growing DFCs in Africa.    In 1.976,
the total of loans and equity approvals increased by 90% over the total of 1975
to reach KShlO6 million or about US$13 million. This growth in its operations
is remarkable especially in view of the general slowdown in industrial invest-
ments in Kenya following the oil crisis. IDB has at the same time improved
the speed of project processing without lowering the overall quality of
its projects. The average lag between approval and commitment has been
decreased by more than 50%. As a result, the cumulative commitments increased
from 65% of approvals at the end of 1975 to nearly 85% at the end of 1976 and
cumulative disbursements during that period increased from 40% of approvals
to 55%.
39.       Among IDB's approvals, the total project size has ranged from KShl.6
million to KSh388.0 million and averages about KSh6O.O million. The bigger
projects generally tend to be new enterprises sponsored by foreign firms and
located outside Nairobi and Mombasa; often these involve the more capital-
intensive sectors such as textile, chemicals, rubber and plastics. On the
other hand, the smaller projects are usually expansion projects in Nairobi or
Mombasa, with a majority Kenyan ownership and in the sectors of engineering,
and metal processing, machinery, or fibres and cordages (bag and rope-making).
Approvals of medium-sized projects with a total cost between KSh4O.O million
and KShlOO.O million fell substantially in 1976, compared with previous years
with more investments being made during 1976 for projects at the extremes of
the size range. IDB's total contribution (loan and equity) to project costs
varies from 45% for project costs below KShl.O million to 5% for project costs
above KShlOO million. Its average participation either as loan and/or equity,
has been around KSh6.6 million per project since its inception.
First and Second IDB Loans
40.       In order to support IDB's lending operations and objectives (para. 27),
the Bank approved its first loan of US$5 million to IDB in 1973, followed by a
second loan of US$10.0 million in 1975. Through these two loans, the Bank has
gained considerable experience in the working of IDB, and has influenced its
growth path and structure. Although over the past three to four years IDB has
operated in an economy severely affected by world-wide inflation and drought
conditions, its performance has been satisfactory as indicated by the level of
its current operations (paras. 38-39). Its rate of commitment of Bank funds
has been impressive and as of December 31, 1976, the first loan had been fully
committed; it is expected that the second loan will also be fully committed by



- 12 -
December 31, 1977. Against this performance, however, two problems recently
affected the implementation of the two Bank financed projects. First, IDB
experienced staff constraints at technical level which slowed down the rate of
implementation but this problem has now been resolved to our satisfaction
through the adoption of a staffing plan. Second, IDB experienced financial
constraints which somewhat curtailed its level of operations. However, in the
past few years, IDB has established effective external contacts and is now
able to tap foreign markets. In addition, efforts towards domestic resource
mobilization have been intensified, and it is hoped that this would increasingly
play a major role in its operations.
Forecast Operations
41.       IDB's pipeline of project possibilities clearly indicates its
potential for a sustained growth of operations. Projects under consideration
for presentation to IDB's Board grew from 17 projects in 1975 to cover 40
at the end of 1976. In addition, IDB holds a large waiting list of additional
unscreened applications. In the past most of the new projects originated
from such institutions as ICDC or the ISPC, but recently the New Projects
Committee (NPC), which reviews projects and may accord a certificate of
approved enterprises which would enable such enterprises to receive certain
concessions such as on import licensing and foreign exchange, has been
providing IDB with new project possibilities. NPC is now increasingly
becoming a major source of new projects. Moreover, with IDB's own increasing
reputation, more than half of the new applications now come directly from the
sponsors themselves.
42.       The first 18 projects of IDB's pipeline which have reached an
advanced stage of preparation total KShlO8 million and the distribution of
that amount confirms the positive trends towards urban decentralization
and Kenyanization of the industry. In addition, the former trend towards
textile concentration appears to be tapering off favorably as indicated by
the proportion of textile projects which now represents only 20% of total
amount invested among the first 18 projects in the pipeline, while sugar
projects represent 35%. In general, the current applications in the pipeline
illustrate a shift towards manufacturing based on local raw materials.
The Resource Structure
43.       By and large, IDB's resources have, in the past, largely come from
external sources. By the end of 1976 IDB had received external financing
totaling $15 million from the Bank (Loans 946-KE and 1148-KE) and $6.9 million
from other external sources. Its commitment amounted to US$15.1 million
equivalent leaving an uncommitted surplus of US$6.8 million. The commitments
of IDB during the first half of 1977 are expected to exhaust the uncommitted
surplus of US$6.8 million carried over from 1976. Between mid-1977 to mid-1980,
IDB's projected commitments are conservatively estimated to total US$36.1
million in foreign currency,of which $11.8 million would be met by the loans
totaling $11.8 million already received this year from DEG, ECGD and EIB, thus
leaving a resource gap of US$24.3 million. With the proposed third Bank loan
of US$20 million, the IDB would be left with a residual gap of US$4.3 million
by mid-1980 which it should be able to raise without great difficulties. Thus,
the Bank would be financing a smaller portion or 55% of IDB's future commitments
from mid-1977 to mid-1980, as compared to 68% in the previous period 1973-1976.
44.       IDB's initial share capital was fixed at KSh4O million subscribed
by the Government, with Government holding 49% of the shares and ICDC 51%.
However, it soon became evident that IDB required a greater resource base
than had been anticipated. Therefore, in 1975, the first share capital



- 13 -
increase to KSh8O.O million was made and about 60% of such increase was paid
up by the end of 1976. This increase led to the introduction of two new share-
holders -- the Kenya National Assurance Company and the National Bank of
Kenya. The current shareholding ratios are: Government 49%, ICDC 26%, KNAC
12.5% and NBK 12.5%. IDB expects all its authorized capital to be fully paid
by December, 1977.
45.       In order to further expand its equity base and to allow it to raise
the maximum it could invest in any single enterprise, IDB recently proposed
to its shareholders a second capital increase (from KSh8O.0 million to KShl2O
million). This increase would be subscribed and paid in on the basis of
existing shareholdings. This measure should improve IDB's resource base and
would enable it to participate more effectively in the formulation and imple-
mentation of Kenya's industrial strategy. In effect, this capital increase
together with the increase in the debt-to-equity ratio (para. 50) would double
IDB's borrowing capacity. Assurances have been received that the proposed
share capital increase from KSh8O.0 million to KShl2O million has been approved
in principle by all IDB's shareholders, that agreement would be reached among
the shareholders on estimated payment schedules satisfactory to meet IDB's needs
and that such an increase would be allotted and subscribed by December 31, 1977.
Mobilization of Domestic Resources
46.       In the past, IDB has not concentrated on mobilizing resources from
domestic sources. Its sources of local currency have been its share capital and
nominal amounts of government grants. This has been due to IDB's original
objective to tap new overseas sources of funds to assist the development of Kenya's
industrial sector. However, IDB now also recognizes the need to mobilize domestic
resources and the introduction of two new shareholders in 1975 (para. 44 above)
was an important step. The proposed second capital increase will also strengthen
IDB's local resource base. IDB has also started borrowing from local institutions
(Kenya Commercial Bank, Kenya National Assurance Company and State Reinsurance
Corporation). It is expected that some KSh3.0 million per year will be initially
raised from these sources. Eventually IDB hopes to be in a position to venture
even more directly into the local capital market and in this connection it has
initiated discussions with the Government to raise local funds through the issue
of public stock and bonds. In addition to these efforts, the Government may pro-
vide some loans to IDB at a level of about KSh4.0 million per year.
Interest Rates
47.       In the past, IDB's loans carried interest rates between 10.0% and
11.0% per annum. To reflect IDB's increased cost of funds and prevailing
rates in Kenya, during appraisal IDB agreed to charge 11.0% per annum on
all foreign currency denominated loans and 12.0% p.a. on local currency



_ 14 -
loans. Although in line with prevailing rates, with inflation running at
approximately 10% per annum, this represents a real interest rate which is only
1-2%. In addition to interest, IDB assesses a 1.0% commitment fee on undisbursed
balances and a progressive appraisal fee of 1/4% to 1% on the loan amount,
depending on its size. At present, IDB is passing on the full foreign exchange
risk to its sub-borrowers, and will continue to do so. IDB's sub-loan terms
have averaged about nine years, with one to two years grace period, based on
subproject cash flow projections. Its security requirements are normally
limited to first charge on the borrowers' assets, pari passu with other lenders
as required.
48.       Taking into account the proposed Bank loan, IDB expects to pay an
average interest of 8.5% on foreign borrowings as compared to an average of 8%
per annum before 1977. The interest on its local borrowings, starting in 1977,
is conservatively estimated at 9.5% per annum. Thus, the spread between the
interest charged on lending and the interest paid on borrowings will increase
from 2% to 2.5% beginning in 1977. Dividend income is conservatively projected
to grow gradually from 1.4% of equity portfolio in 1977 to 4.1% in 1981, and
will comprise 6.4% of the gross income in that year. IDB's after-tax profits
based on income from interest, dividend and other sources, stood at about 1% of
average equity in 1976, and this percentage is expected to increase to 5.0% in
1981. This profitability rate of 5%, while on the lower side because of con-
servative assumptions, is reasonable for a development bank not dependent on
large annual Government subsidies.
Investment Policy
49.        IDB's investment decisions are governed by its Statement of Policy and
Regulations which was prepared and subsequently revised in consultation with the
Bank. The Statement of Policy conforms in all its significant respects to
policy statements of other development finance companies. For the next five
years, IDB plans to stress on expanding its level of operations while sustaining
the high quality standard that it has established. It also intends to play an
increasing role in the formulation and implementation of Kenya's industrial
strategy (para. 23). IDB normally finances or otherwise assists enterprises
where new productive assets are to be created and would normally not engage in
re-financing operations or transfer of existing assets; its investment decisions
are based on sound appraisal methods and particularly take into account the
total financial requirements of the project and the soundness of the resulting
financial structure for the enterprises; and IDB finances only economically sound,
financially viable, technically feasible projects, and those which have compe-
tent management.
50.       An overriding consideration of IDB's investment policy is its strict
observance of the debt-to-equity ratio. IDB's policy currently restricts its
borrowing to the debt-to-equity ratio of 3:1; however, IDB needs to increase its
level of borrowings to finance its projected lending program and plans to embark
on a limited scale in guarantee 1/ operations. Projections show that, at the
estimated expansion rate, IDB will exceed this ratio during 1978. In view of
IDB's good operating performance, sound portfolio, and financial situation, it
was agreed that IDB would increase its debt-to-equity limitation to 4:1 (Section
4.06 of the Loan Agreement).
1/ Guarantees are considered as debt in the Policy Statement definition of
debt-to-equity ratio.



- 15 -
IDB's Near-Term Strategy
51.       During the past four years, IDB's scale of operations has been
impressive; it expects to expand this level while maintaining its high standards.
To this end, IDB's near-term strategy is being evolved. First, it is establishing
a Project Advisory Services to meet anticipated shortages in managerial skills
and know-how (para. 36). Second, in recognition of the role which it might play
in the process of defining Kenya's industrial policy, IDB plans to recruit an
Economist who would form a nucleus for coordinating with the Government. It was
agreed that IDB would establish the PAS and recruit the Economist by December
31, 1977.
IDB's Management of Government Funds
52.       The concept of Managed Fund was agreed under the second Bank Loan
(1148-KE) whereby IDB would manage certain large investments on account of the
Government and at no financial risk to itself. In practice, management of large
loans under this arrangement has been straightforward and satisfactory, but the
administration of large equity investments (financed from Government funds) has
proven to be more complicated given the uncertainty as to the form in which the
Government wished IDB to hold the equity investment (i.e. in IDB's or the
Government's name). The concern is the degree of IDB's autonomy in project
selection and the possible financial exposure to IDB were it to act as a share-
holder for some large investments which the Government asked IDB to hold.
53.       After discussions among the Government, IDB and the Bank, it was
agreed that a modified arrangement be concluded by July 15, 1977 under which
IDB would be permitted to undertake equity investments and make loans so as
to increase IDB's overall impact on industrial financing in Kenya (Section 3.07
of the Loan Agreement).
54.       Under the new arrangement IDB would continue to manage the Government
funds for loans strictly as an agent of the Government with no risk to itself.
Regarding equity investment, Government funds would be used to subscribe a new
class of IDB's shares to be designated as "Class B Stock" as distinct from the
regular share capital which would be designated as "Class A Stock". Both classes
of stock would be eligible for a similar rate of dividend, but the "B Class Stock"
would not enjoy any voting rights. IDB's investments financed by the "Class B
Stock" would only be undertaken in cases where the enterprise and the proposed
investment would qualify under normal IDB policy. In order to protect IDB's
exposure, it was agreed that: (a) the total number of new projects in which IDB
makes such investments and in respect of which IDB agrees to act as an agent in
administering a Government loan (para. 52) will not exceed one-third of the
total number of new projects in which IDB makes investment (loan or equity) out
of its general resources in any fiscal year; and (b) the aggregate of Government
assisted investment would not exceed one-half the aggregate of IDB's unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves less the aggregate of paid in "Class
B Stock".



- 16 -
Proposed Loan
55.       The purpose of the proposed project is to assist the Industrial
Development Bank (IDB) to implement its lending program and to develop its
capabilities so as to enable it to play a more effective role in the Govern-
ment's industrial development. More specifically, the project will enable
IDB: (a) to provide term financing on suitable terms to medium-and large-
scale manufacturing projects in Kenya that have been well-conceived on
economic, financial, and technical grounds; and (b) to maintain and improve
the momentum generated to date in establishing IDB as a major industrial
development finance institution and to enhance its ability to carry out its
future activities in the framework of Kenya's evolving industrial strategy.
56.       The proposed loan of US$20.0 million equivalent would be made on
substantially the same terms as Loans 946-KE and 1148-KE. However, it is
proposed that the individual project free limit be raised from US$400,000
equivalent to US$600,000 equivalent to recognize the good quality of IDB's
appraisal; the aggregate free limit would be US$4.0 million. The loan
would carry the standard Bank interest rate and the amortization schedule
would conform substantially to the aggregate of subloan repayments to IDB,
with a maximum maturity of 15 years for any subloan.
57.       Disbursements would be made against 100% c.i.f. cost of direct
imports, 65% of the invoice price of goods previously imported into Kenya, and
40% of the costs of civil works. As agreed for the second IDB loan, the Bank
would continue to finance the foreign component (to be substantiated by IDB on
a case-by-case basis) of locally manufactured goods made in part from materials
previously imported.
Project Justification
58.       IDB has established itself among Kenyan financial institutions as a
major source of funds for developing and assisting the manufacturing sector and
has made good progress on its way to becoming a mature development finance
institution. Both in quantitative and qualitative terms, IDB's future policies
are intended to enhance its role in further developing this key sector. In the
past, IDB financed approximately 8% of Kenya's annual industrial investment
through loans and equity investments. During the projected period of the pro-
posed Bank loan, IDB expects to increase this proportion upwards to 13% per
annum. Through the proposed loan, the Bank will be able to: (i) assist IDB
and its implementation of projects intended to inter alia, alleviate the
pressure of unemployment, develop new manufacturing enterprises located away
from major urban centers and thereby reducing migration into the cities, and
better utilize resources domestically available; and (ii) provide part of IDB's
foreign exchange requirements for financing such projects.



- 17 -
Risks
59.       The proposed project has normal risks associated with DFC lending.
However, such risks would be minimized in view of IDB's good past performance,
the Bank's familiarity with IDB's operations, and the good cooperation that
has enabled the Bank to discuss and resolve issues with IDB's management before
they become serious problems. It is true nevertheless that as a rapidly grow-
ing financial institution, IDB still experiences its teething problems. It
would therefore have to monitor carefully the quality of its portfolio to ensure
that its project evaluation/follow-up standards would not deteriorate due to
the increase in the level of its operations. In terms of long-term perspectives,
there is the risk that the Government might experience difficulties in adopting
an industrial development policy that would substantially improve the industrial
investment climate. Moreover, should the Government fail to evolve a formula
that would permit IDB to contribute more effectively to such a policy, IDB would
continue to operate in an environment where its expansion and impact on the
economy might be unnecessarily circumscribed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Industrial Development Bank, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Agreements con-
form to the normal pattern for loans to development finance companies.
61.       Special features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are
reflected in Part III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1977



I



o3~
aL - It s           ..I                                           .J.-
aS   -               0     0                   NN...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- MM
n.e ~~~~~~~~~~.0-.-JIt
t.  ,. so  a  ott  Ca~~~. . .a  o a  ii  cc  ci             coo   CccC:       A  .O 
ma                                                               tiIc.Z. 0
na  s50  *  oo~~~~I  mo9a cIt 9  ot It  ttinC                  0 0   000  *IC      0 t 0           C
a.  a.                                                                                      a~~~~~~~~~ Tw Z0  CoaXV. M  -
a.                                                                                          a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 2 - 0 0 
* S -                                                                                           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-.  5                                                                                               5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  000a0.1 
a.  a                                                 tiJOJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vx.   1   a 
-s  atta                                                            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 7 0 0-a  ; a z a  Ca 2
as  9:a    '  oo   a o0o  ma a            *   cc . MCI   .   ...  c..   cc   C* W00   c           .   c cj  
X:     OWN        M~~~n  -        C    04                  -         S    ..x~ ,C
S  W.                                                                                                  a -  fm I:  a   2vaS & Cas &I
*  ~~~                                                       -~~~J~~~        -j  i .ox -J  a0
*  at                                                                                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ox _  & t W  -1= ul :
a  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



page 2 of   a paes
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwarie 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betesa       1968 and 1970, and for tast Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
a Ivory Coast has been selected as the second comparison country because of itsa similarities in economic policies.
-n Korea has been selected as a country with sound induatrialisation and eaport promtion policies.
___A                   1960    /a   1962;    A   Bkaed on couplets enumeration of non-African population, and of urban African popOaation, and 00 a
10 percent sepiae of rural African population age 0-15, 15-59 and 60 end over respectivelyl          ac  Retio of
population under 15 and 60 and over to total labor force;        &   Registered, not all practicing in tins country,
nursing personnel includes midwivoes nd assistant midwives;            Total secondary,includes teacher training at
the third level.
&LO      Ratl.oof popultio    under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;        &   Labor force age 15-59 years;
a Urban;     j4  Reitered, not all practicing in the country, including midwives;          /a   Total secondary includeis
teacher training at the third level.
MOST RECK? ESTIMATE:      /a   1971;j       1922;     ac  Registered, not all practicinxg in the country;       jg  Including mid-
wives;     /o  1969-n3 average;     If   Tbtal secondary Includes teacher traininig at tihe third
level.
TANiZANIA               2           Mainl-an  Tansania     /b  1967;     a   Including assistaLnt medical officrers      14  Including midwives and assistant
nurses;     a4  1965;     Qf  Urban only.
rVORY OWTS             1970    A4The to i.mmigration population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increeae;           /b   1965-70;     /4  hitio
of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        1.d  Government only, Including midwives;      Le  1961.-
66.
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF     1970    /a   Government estimate is 38.oj      /b  As percentage of employment;      /4  Registered, aot all practicing in the
country;     /d  Water piped inside.
nO0, Play 3, 1977
Lend Area rth- ka2)                                                                    Ppcolition per nureina ptron-   Popuietion divided by s,nhr of practicing
Total1   Total nurfuce ers. cooprising Iund ersa end inland v.oter.                      male and feeals graduate  uae     "treimed" Or "certified" nurses, nd
Agric.-  90ct coco. ns timr    f ocri-uIrur-l er   used tenporirly or pen-               eusilisry persone with traising orenrin.
neonly for crops, psetrure, norboc & bircben cerdone or to lits foillw.              ponu.i-o pec hoepita1 bed - Popoltion divided by number of hospinel beds
ev-ilable in public and private general end pscislised hospital and
CNP nor oc.ito (US$) - GNP' por capita cei.t. tuaa  crrrot arbkt prime.,                 rebabilitanion centers; eaoludas nursing base. and esteblihahetnn  for
-alcutecd by osn   covr   -o othtd a, World Bank AtLas (1973-75 beans);                cundilod prerentit- core.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 dote.                                                            Per c.. nices. l  of neloriso f of rCoiesns       -iputed fr- enegy
equiveles of ne t food supplies evailabla In .-tmry per capine per day;
PoPo1scion and viral stetiteic!                                                          available suPppies ne-priao domestic production  imports lees enPorce, end
Poculation (oid-year niliio)    beA of July firat:  if not availahle, averege            chengss in stock; net eupplies  s-Iode enimal feed, seeds, quatities used
of two rod-year 1eimre ;l60, 1970 end 1975 deco.                                       in food procoe-tog end looses in distribution; requirements were estimated
by FnO bssed on physiological needs for --rnI activity and h.sIth consid-
PP1ctolain d-iscy - pcr vuers koo - Mid-yosr popolotion per square kilasner              acing eviro      t.1a temperture, body saigha, age sad sea distrtbcttene of
(100 hecteres) of coral aea..                                                          poplanmon, and allowing 101 for waste at household leve.
Posulation density - per sunrs ho of soric. Iand - coopotad as above for               Per -cit. aupplv of oroctei   (etras per day) - Protein contest of per capita
sgrico1tror1 iand only.                                                                net supply of food per day; net supply of foad Is defined as above ; reqoire-
nento for all coontrise established by 100DA E.-omoi. Research S.mervcs
vital statisnics                                                                          provide for a niinomu  allowanc  of 60 grsas of total protein per day, sod
Crude birth rat, per thousand. anorase - Annual live birtha per thousnd of                20 gra   of animal and pulse protein, of uihtc  i0 gras should he sninaI
old-yos  popolacion; ten-year arirtetic   nerages ending in 1960 end 1970,              protein; thoee  tendsrde are lowr than thuse of 75 gras of tote1 protsic
and fiv-yea   onstge ending in 1975 for eat recent eatimate.                            sod 23 gras of onftal protein ..as enavrege for the world, proponed by PAO
Crude dsath rare per thousan.d, averge - A-.Iua deaths per thausend of old-year           in the Third World Pood Survy.
population; iso-year arithonatic  --erage  ending in 1960 end 1970 and five-          Per -ssite protein uoely iro- onma   ensd onies - Protein supply of food
yea  avr ag   nsdiog in 1975 for nest tr.-t ea timers,                                  derived frn animals end puiss   in grec  per day.
Infant ore     try  at  f/thou) - Annua deaths of iafaota under oen yesr of age         Deach rete f/thou) aoes 1-4 - Annual1 deaths per thoua...d In age group 1-4
per ihoucand live birth..                                                              years, to children in tint  age group; euggestsd as an indicator of
Life eopsctm...y at birch (Y-a) - Average nush- of years of life renaming at             malntrition.
birch; usually fiv-y-a av-rgee ending io 1960, 1970 and 1971 for develop-
inscocrio                                                                            Education
Cross rsproductionrates-vverage nnbor of live d.ghtore s wooso sill bear                Adjusted enrollmet ratio            I rmr  schoo  - Enrollowot of all ages as per-
in her no-1n rprod-cciv- Period if ohs enperiennes prsant age-spcii                     acentg. of poimry scolae       ouaion; inniudes children aged 6-11 years
fertilitey rase-; -usualy fiv-yea  -vragee ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975               hot adbuatd for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing cosre.Universl edo-tmon, -arsiboot ney secod 100X omensea --Pupils are below
Population orooth rate .     total - Compoond annul growth rate of midy-ya                or shov  the official school age.
population for 1950-if, 1960-70 end 1970-75.                                          Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary eshool - Coopaced as above; secondary
Ponulecion orouth race (I  - urban - mnputed lika grouch rats of rtatl                    education requires at least four years sf approwed primary inatruntion;
population; differet definicioe of urban areas ney affect cooparahility of              Provid" general, voctionel or teacher treining inetrution     for pupile
data onon  councrisa.                                                                   of 12 to 17 years of age; --rapande-eecorses are genrally secluded.
Urban popcletion (7 of total) - Rtcis of urban to tote1 population; different           Years ofghchoniem proided (frte-1eon           ees) - Tota1 years of
definitiona of orb. an -s  may affect coparability of dat.amengn countriaa.             soaia;tscedrlaa,vaional inetrstio                      may he partially or
AR. Ptructur  (percent) - Childre  (0-14 years),   orhing-ags (15-64 years),            Vctiona enrollmen     Cl of ecodsev    - Vocationl .titacicacon   include
a:nddretdi.red(65 years and ovr) as percetages of mid-yesr peulacion.                    technical, indus trial or other prograse haich operate indapndently or a
tsdpndnyrtio - Ratio of population onder 15 end 65 end ovr to those               deperteaeta of secondary institutions.
of agesi    hrocih h4.                                                                Adult lit-eray rate (%) - Literate edulca (eble to read and wis     spe-
icunocic dependenyrai     -Rti    ofpoultion under iS end 65 and over to                  centage of rare1 aduli population aged 15 years end over.
the labor force in age% cReep' of1-hAyars
Foully planninn -s.ccpters        1-nuaine. thou) - Cunulative nnber of ..cceptora      Ho-Ing
of birth-control device, under auspices of national fenily planning prSagr            Persons ner reom (urban) - inerege nuteabr of parons per coo   in occupied
.intu~e cpteio.cnntse                                                                                dwelligs in urban areae; dwellings sonuds non-pernesn.t
Family pleonin  -  areC of married oe         -Percen.tages of married wne of             acrIuccureed unoccupied perte.
child,-bearing age (15-A4 years) who us  birth-control devices to all married         Ocunled dolo       without pedwter CZ) - Occopisd conn-ncona1 dwellings
unn_  i,, te  Sgegoup.                                                                  in urban and rura  -ree  without masids or -utside piped werr at    liie
E.pl,y-nt                                                           -:.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaprcentage of all occupied dwellinga.
V,eeloymenr                                                       Aecees~~~~~~~~~~~~ to electricity CX of all dwellings) - Conentional dweilinge with
Total labor force (thousad .  -~E in=sinally acti-o peceon, including arsed               electricity in living quatrter as percent of rtetS dutllingo in urban and
fnrc- and uteu.ployad but secluding housewive, students, .rc.; dafinitions              rural -rsee
inesicenontries or  nt coupereble.                                              Rural dwellinge connected to lelatricity        Col-  mputed so above for rura
Labo fore ieaurioltus (1  -Agrceultora1 Iobur forts (in fanning, foretry,         dwelings only.
hnigad fishing) seperoonrgs of total labor forc..
Us     nelve  (X of lbor farce)  U- ueployed ers usualy defined so pereone who          Cnanntion
ars ab.le end   in    -torke aJob, out of a job on a given day, remined our           Radio reeivera (per thou pee) - All type of receives far radio breedcaate
of ajb     nd keeing wotk for a specified minion   period nor ..mc.eding one           to gEneral1 public Per thbsuend of population; -ealudes onliceneed receivers
web  a  o   be omparahbe between countrise due no differet definitions           in countrie.soad in Y-sr  when registrati-on  f redie sets wee in effset;
of uneplye    ed eurc_     fdta,    g.     P emloyment office statiatins, emple         data fec recen.t y-r may not he nonperable since meet coutries abolished
.u-nY., empoleory      oply-nen   ineuranne.                                            licensing.
Pesseonrcera(nec thou eon) - Pa--g-r cats coupria       maco   cars seeting
Incas diatributio   - P.-erntge of private i-anin  (both in cah end hind)                 lasta      ight person; seclu.des embolnne, hearses and military
recived by richest 5X, rich.te 20%, pooreot 20%, and poorest 4bOX of hos-               veieee
holds.                                                                                Electricity (khd/yr er cee) - dAnnanl   anstumption of industrial, c-asrcie1,
Public end Privtat electricity in kilowtt honn per capita, generaly
Dietrihotion of lend ownership - Peris.tragee of land ound by weslthisac lu%              hased on production data, without allowance for busses in grtids hut allo--
and peoreat 10% of land owners.                                                         iog for imports and emporte ef electricity.
Newsprint (ha/yr perea) -P-er caPita. annuaI nasomption In kilogras
Hes1rb and Nutrition                                                                      setlanted froo doetic production plus     et imports of newsprint.
Popoletion p-c physinien - Pop.lotion divided by nubir of pranticing
phyeiciane qualified frm a medlea1 school at usiveoity leve.



ANNEX 1
P.ge 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPM8ENT DATA
1972
Actua1                              Prelim.    1967      1972       Share of
1967 I/       1970 1/      1972      1973       1974      1973       1970      1975         GDP
RATIONAL ACCOUNTS
911 OTS $ et 1972 Prie..
GDP                                     1257.3         1527.9       2044.0     2200.2    2333.2    2333.4      6.7      4.5         100.0
Gain. fr- TT                               3.4           12.1          -         10.6    - 74.2    - 79.2                -            -
GUY                                     1261.3         1540.0       2044.0     2210.8    2261.8  - 2254.2      6.9      3.2         100.0
I.ports                                  380.1         483.4         630.8     644.0      672.8     572.4      8.3     -3.4          31.8
Eapo-te Vols-                            371.0          442.2        580.8      590.0     613.7     585.5      6.0      0.2          28.4
Eaport. Tot.l Adj.                       374.4          454.3        580.8      600.9    .541.5     506.3      6.7     -4.1          26.4
Reexorce Gap                               5.7           29.1         70.0       44.0     131.3      66.1       -        -            3.4
Total Coo-optiox                        1012.2         1228.1       1639.7     1759.0    2006.8     1936.6     6.7      7.3          80.2
lov-te..nt                               254.2          340.9        449.4      495.9  -383.6       383.6     10.2     -4.2          22.0
NatIo...l S-tlo8e                        211.9          300.2        368.5      384.2     193.5      267.4    12.3     -2.1          18.0
Oxoestie Savings                         249.0          311.8        405.0      451.9     252.3     317.5      7.8     -4.1          19.8
MERGNADISE TRADIE                                          Annual Data at Corrent PrcsA. Percent of Total
1967          1970         1972      1973       1974      1975               1967    1970     1975
I.ports
CapItal Goode                             105.3         122.4        174.7      167.1     285.2      277.5            31.4     27.7    29.7
loten-diate Goods (e.clifuela)           118.3          173.2        184.8      240.7     407.0     268.6             35.2    39.2     28.7
F-Ile and r-lated naterlal                35.0           41.3         37.4       65.6     225.6      251.1            10.4      9.3    26.9
of  bihleh  Pet-ol-.                   (34.3)         (40.2)        (36.6)    (64.4)   (234.3)    (249.8)           (10.2)   (9.1)  (26.7)
Connooptiox Goode                         77.4          105.5        117.-9     128.9     164.7      137.2            23.0     23.0    14.7
Total Mereh. laport   (.lf)              336.0          442.4         534.8-    622.3    10-62.5     9-34.4-         100.0    100.0   100.0
Pri-ay P-od-ct    (er. fuela)            111.2          144.2        178.4      245.3    276.8      259.4             49.8     50.0    43.2
Fuels asd related sart-ials               32.1           40.3         54.9       60.7    127.7      156.4             14.4     14.0    27.2
of  bihiel  Petrole-                   (32.1)         (40.3)        (54.9)    (60.7)  (127.7)     (156.4)          (14.4)   (14.0)  (27.2)
Maxofa-t-d Goods                           79.8         104.1         113.4     157.0    172.7       158.2            35.8     36.1    27.6
Total1 Moreh. Ep-rt   (fob)              231            288.6        346.7      46 3.0  3577.72-     574.0           10-0.0   1700. 0  100.0
T-ai.o R-oipte                            41.2           51.7         74.3       69.3     75.6        86.4
Merhandise T-ade Indi.es                                                1972       1973      1974       1975
Eaport Prlex loden                                                  100        114      1754-     1r77
Eaport Price Inden                                                  100        114       179       212
T-r   of Trade Iedex                                                100        100        86         83
EoP-rts V.1-n Index                                                 1oo        115       Ill         98
A'eag    nna Growth Rates          P-rcet of Total
VAILOE ADDED BY SECTOR                                           Aosxul Data at 1972 PrIces and E=h-sge Rate.         1972-"73 1973-7 4   1974-75        1972        1975
Agricuture                                                              602Min     608       618        17             10        16        -0.2           32          30
ledostry and Nlniog                                   ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~230  270  284  295    17.4      5.2         3.9           12         14
Service.                                                                1033      1091      1148       1152            3.6       5.2        0.3           56          56
Total                                                                  1865       1969      2050       2064            5.6       4.1        0.7          lOB         100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                     1n Current Prices6 and slagRte
(Centr-l G---anet)                                              71/72    72/73     73/74    74/75    75/76
C-rren   R-eiptx                                                396       417      332      633       698
Corrent Eapeediture                                             360       391      458      580       630
B.dget-ry S-iags                                                3T6      -26       7-4      3-3       6-8
Other Poblie Sector                                                                                                     DETAIL ON CENTRAL GOVT.                009 MISliox
Eapeoitur  ix DxeloanatB.dger                            145       173      166      264       349                  INVESITMENT PROGRAM4              At 1976 Pricos
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                                              BRudget  37-FY79) F--dg                       orx      Toa
(. of Total Corrent EnPexdit-r)BdgtY7                                                                                                    7Uh.,                            -     'T
Directly Productfv- Sectors               462           46.2
Ed-ct ico                                                       24.2      26.7     26.2     27.2      27.8              Ecosonio Infrastructur                    260           28.0
Other Social Servlcex                                           15.6      16.0     16.8     16.1      15.6              Soc.ial Infrastrcture                      216          21.6
Agrirol t-r                                                      7.4       7.3      7.3      6.5       7.3              Other                                      41            4.1
Other Ec-ioo     ServIces                                        7.9       7.6      6.6      6.9       6.9                 Total R.quir-esets                     979 9         1007.
Ad.ix. .sd Defens                                               37.1      33.6     34.0     33.0      31.2
Other (i.el. itxter-t on debt)                                   7.7       8.7      9.7     10.2      11.1              Public Sector Savi.8s                     365           36.5
Total Current fopenditror                                       10-0      100-     -100-     c 100    1017              PoriER   Fi-aotn   (a-t)                  346           34.6
D-tesel  PFioeclg (net)                   288           78.8
Totsl                                  999          T1-o%
SE.LECTED IND.ICATORS                         1965-70       1973-74       1975-80.
ICOR                                            3.0           3.3           3.2
laP-rt EloetleSty                               1.0           0.5          0.93
4A. NOt. S-vSxg Rats                            18.7         12.3          13.0
Ilov. Nst. Sa-ix8 Rate                           0.22        -1.56          0.1.2
l.p.rt./GDP                                    29.8          29.1         24.5
LABOR PORCE AND                             TtlL     orPreValue Added P-r Worbe (17                                                   rcuadtEb. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                    EsMlIns             % of Tete1                                       Isn  Dollars                   7. of Average
1971                1971                                             191S97
Inoty                                141                  3                                              '1426                            475
Service                       301~~~~~~~~~O         6                                              1286                             429
Total                                  5377                 100                                              7F0B                             100
1/ I Co..etant 1967-69 S.ACL
Nil1 or negligible..API
March 16. 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
KENYA
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS EXTERNAL ASSLS.CE A        DE
(m-ount. in million  of 0.5. dollars *t current prices)
Actual                  SscUm.                                                                                   Actual
1972      1973      1974       1975                                                                     1972      1973      1974       1975
SUMMIARY 8ALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MEDIUM AND LONCG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLy)
Etports (Incl. NFS)                  560         697       953       975            Total Debt Outst. DOD End Period                         348.4     405.4      475.0     520.4
Imports (Incl. NFS)                  605        751       1192      1104            Public Debt Service                                       24.9      28.7       30.6      31.4
Resource Nal..ce                     -45         -56      -238      -129              Intereast                                               14.5      16.3       18.0      19.4
Other M & L Term Debt Service                             25.0      25.0       25.0      35.0
Net Factor Sorvice Income            -34        -103      -101       -99            Total Debt Service                                        49.9       53.7      55.6      66.4
Correct Tro-efers (Net)              +39        +23        +17       +21        DEBT BURDEN
Soloeco or Cucrect Account           -40        -131      -322      -207            Debt Service Ratio 5/                                      4.4       4.1        3.2       3.2
I   Debt Service Ratio 6/                                     12.3      19.9       14.5      11.7
Prlvate Direct Ie-ctcent              21         45         46        43
TEENS
Official Capital Grants              ..          ..         11        17
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                            4.7       4.9        4.6       4.2
Public M & L Torn Loo.s                                                              Total Debt Service/Tota1 DOD                              8.1        8.5       7.8       6.9
ilohurseerste                         48         65         89       110
Strurtloocloc                          -6        -17       -17       -17        EXPOSURE
Net Oleborsoocete                     42          48        72        93
0IBRD Dib,/Gtross Total DiGb.                             30.4      18.3      12.2       35.0
Other M & L Ter- L[o-s                                                              Bank Group   Disb./Grose Total Dieb.                      38.9      33.8       32.5      40.3
iLehurSenseis                         30          53        81        32            IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                         9.4      13.3       14.3      20.4
Azsortioation                        -11         -10       -10       -10            bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                  21.9      30.3       31.4      35.9
Net Disburse-etss                      19         43        71        22            IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                       5.6      10.1       14.1      20.4
Uee of IMF Rosources 1/               -           -         39        59             ,ack Group Debt Service/Total D.S.                        6.9      11.8       15.7      22.3
Short Tere Capitol Transactions        6          15        29       -11
Capital Tr,.anctlon-, NEI             24          -         -         -                                                                          outetsodinR  Dec. 31. 1975
Change Ic Reserves                   -24         -20       +54       -19        EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                 Amount                 Percent
(- increase) 2/
ForedEe go        Ree re             202        233        193       174           IRD                                                        106.0                   20.4
tEd of Perid3/                                                                  Neck Grop                                                  187.2                   36.0
Other Multilat-rel                                           2.8                   0.5
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                               Gover,meets                                               277.7                   53;4
of which Centrally Planned Econoies                       -                       -
Official Greets                       .            .        11        17            Suppliers                                                   10.5                    2.0
Totl  Public M b L Ter. [ Loae        97         101       161       369            Financial Inetitutions                                      18.3                    3.5
IBRD (0W)                         29         34         10       194            Bards                                                       22.0                   4.2
IDA                               20         -          34        26            Public Debt, NEI                                             2.0                   0.4
Other .MultilIcerol                -           1        -          4            Totol Public n & L Term Debt                               520.4                  100.0
Goverrusceis                       23         66       120        74            Other Public M & L Term Debt                                 -                       -
of which Ccci. ploened 4/        -          -         -         -             Other M b L Term Debt                                      300.0                   57.7
Suppliers                          -          -         -         48            Total Public Debt (incl. Undiebureed)                     1071.0                  206.0
Fi.,occil Inotitutiocs           17           2        _         23            Total M & L Teo   Debt (incl. Ihdisbursed)                1371.0                  263.7
bonds
Public Leone NEI
Other M 4 L Term L[ans (private)   -
. .  lot available.                                                  2/ Ecludes ret ore of IMF Resources which are            5/  Debt Service or public debt only.
- Oll or ceclicible.                                               sbouc speprately.                                      6/   Debt S_rvice os public debt      ether tediru-
1/  8cr of "cawiege" cod "Repayseent oR Purebeer" or reported in     3/ "leterehtional Reserves" Scenery Table in IFS.             ard long-tere debt (privato), .ad ret
the IFS Suereary Tables on Exchange :Transactions .              4/ Isciudee dAtA Gountries, Peoplec Republic of Chiea,        direct inveetnert incomne.
North Korea, North Vietnom.
EACPIA
Mcrch 16, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at April 30, 1977
Loan or
Credit #   Year   Borrower       Purpose                     Amount (Less Cancellations)
Bank    IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Seven (7) loans and ten (10) credits fully disbursed.        96.0    46.0
185        1970   Kenya          Education                            6.1      .6
224        1970   Kenya          Road Maintenance                    12.6     2.0
276        1972   Kenya          Highways                            22.0     2.4
826        1972   Kenya          Nairobi Airport             29.0             2.9
932        1973   Kenya          Highways                    29.0            15.4
946        1973   IDB            DFC                          5.0              .6
468        1974   Kenya          Population                          12.0     8.3
477        1974   Kenya          Livestock                           21.5    20.0
993        1974   Kenya          Tea Factories               10.4             7.4
1093       1975   Kenya          Group Farm Credit            7.5             7.5
537        1975   Kenya          Group Farm Credit                    7.5     7.3
1105       1975   Kenya          Site and Service             8.0             8.00
543        1975   Kenya          Site and Service                     8.0     6.5
565        1975   Kenya          Agriculture-Forestry                10.0     8.2
1132       1975   Kenya          Agriculture-Forestry        10.0             7.5 2/
1133       1975   Kenya          Transportation-Pipeline     20.0             7.3
1147       1975   TRDC           Hydroelectric Development   63.0            34.6
1148       1975    IDB           DFC                         10.0             6.2
1167       1975   Kenya          Mombasa & Coastal
Water Supply               35.0            34.6
1184       1975   Kenya          Education III              10.0              9.9
650        1976   Kenya          Integrated Agricultural
Development                        10.0    10.00
1303       1976   Kenya          Integrated Agricultural
Development                10.0            10.00
1304       1976   Kenya          Wildlife & Tourism         17.0             17.00
651        1976   Kenya          Rural Access Roads                  4.0      4.00
1305       1976   Kenya          Rural Access Roads          4.0              4.00
1389       1977   Kenya          South Nyanza Sugar         25.0             25.0
692        1977   Kenya          Agricultural Credit III             20.0    20.0
1390       1977   Kenya          Agricultural Credit III     5.0              5.0
TOTAL                              393.9   179.7   292.2
of which has been repaid           11.6     0.4
TOTAL now outstanding              382.3   179.3
Amount sold                 5.1
of which has been repaid   4.5       .6      .0
TOTAL now held by Bank
& IDA                 381.7    179.3
TOTAL undisbursed                  202.9    89.3   292.2
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $4.2 undisbursed grant participation.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B.   Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at April 30, 1977
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan     Equity   Total
1967, 1968
& 1973   Kenya Hotel Properties         Hotels             5.2       0.7     5.9
1970, 1974
& 1977   Pan African Paper Mills        Pulp and Paper    13.1       6.3    19.4
1972       Tourism Promotion Services     Hotels             2.4        -      2.4
1976       Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.     Textiles           6.3       2.8     9.1
1977       Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd.    Capital Market     2.0        -      2.0
TOTAL Gross Commitments                   29.0      9.8    38.8
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                8.3      1.8     10.1
TOTAL Commitments
now held by IFC                         20.7      8.0     28.7
TOTAL Undisbursed                          3.9      1.3      5.2



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C.   Projects in Execution  1/
Credit No. 185-KE - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970;
Effective Date: August 5, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project is about two years behind schedule, but is expected to
be completed by December 1977. Delays have been mainly due to problems of
appointing technical assistance specialists and the inability of the Ministry of
Works to provide architectural engineering services. Latest estimates indicate
an increase of 9% in cost overruns in terms of Kenyan shillings. Educational
objectives are, however, being met.
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Although the project is 18 months behind schedule, it is well
advanced and completion is expected in October 1977. The delay is mainly due to
a slow start in construction of regional workshops on account of unforeseen
difficulties experienced in acquisition of sites and procurement of steel. These
difficulties have now been resolved and no further major problems are anticipated
on this project. The Closing Date was postponed from June 30, 1975 to
June 30, 1977. Postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1977 is under
consideration.
Credit No. 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of January 5, 1972;
Effective Date: March 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project, although behind schedule, is now well advanced in terms
of the improvement of the Ulu-Sultan Hamud section of the Nairobi-Mombasa road and
the construction of tea roads in the Mount Kenya and Meru areas. However, slow
progress is being made on construction of the settlement roads in the Eldoret area.
The vehicle weighbridges at Nairobi and Mombasa are ready to go into operation as
the problems of adequate housing and the equipping of the stations have now been
resolved, but there is still a staffing problem which is now under consideration
and is expected to be resolved shortly. Full operation of the weighbridge stations
is expected by June 1977. The final estimates of the project in terms of Kenya
shillings are expected to exceed appraisal estimates by 41%.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Because of high escalation in the contract between the Government
and the contractor, a dispute arose between the two parties. The major contractor
threatened to withdraw, but the problems have now been resolved. The contractor
is continuing with the project and work is scheduled for completion in September
1977. A serious problem that remains to be solved is the recruitment and training
of technicians in the various skills required to operate the new facilities.
Another problem is the management of financial and accounting systems.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive
problems in organization, cost overruns and pricing. The Government requested a
detailed review of the project, and a joint IDA/other donors mission undertook an
in-depth review. Their report is presently under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project has suffered heavily from recent inflation, with an
estimated cost overruns amounting to 63%. To alleviate this situation, the
Government is endeavoring to obtain additional funds to finance the local costs
of all road improvements provided for under the loan. In the event it is
unsuccessful, the Government will submit to the Bank a formal request to exclude
from the project the proposed improvements to the Thuchi-Nkubu and Kissi-Mogonga
trunk roads, and use the funds thus released to meet the foreign cost overruns
included in the project. Although the other works included in the project met
with earlier delays, work is now progressing satisfactorily. The expected
completion date is March 31, 1979. The Closing Date is expected to be postponed.
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975,
but due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, they went into
production in November 1975, January 1976, March 1976 and June 1976, respectively.
Two more factories are now under construction and should be in operation by mid-1977.
Three more factories are scheduled to commence operation in 1977 for completion
early in 1978.   By June 30, 1978, KTDA will have built nine factories against the
appraisal target of 14. Because of high construction costs and operating costs,
KTDA is studying the possibility of extending existing factories instead of build-
ing new ones and designing future factories to handle more than 1,200 tons/annum.
Yields of green leaf are lower than envisaged at appraisal but with the application
of fertilizer from a Commonwealth Development Corporation loan, improvements are
expected.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:    $7.5 million
Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975; Effective Date:    September
30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The initial reluctance of groups of farmers to participate in the
rehabilitation program has been largely overcome, due partly to the example set
by the first group farms participating in the project and partly to the active
campaign for the program by politicians and high-ranking Government officials.
The Ministry of Agriculture has now appointed the Project Coordinator and other
staff as stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement, and it is expected that
the momentum will be maintained. A draft study prepared by consultants on the
large farm sector is presently being reviewed by the Government.
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KRE - Site and Service Project: $8.0 million
Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Effective Date: September 25,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The construction
works for the first 1,000 site and service plots have been substantially completed.
All plots have been allocated and the first occupants moved on to their plots in
November 1976. Design'and engineering for the remaining areas of the project are
being completed by consultants. The four studies financed under this project are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1133-KRE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project: $20 million
Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3, 1975; Closing Date:
February 1, 1979
Completion of construction is targeted for October 1977; commercial
operations are scheduled to commence January 1978 as originally planned. The oil
industry, the Railways and KPC have agreed to install central railroad loading
facilities at KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the US$1.54 million cost is
being arranged. KPC has updated project cost and financial forecast. The project
is now estimated to have a cost overrun of 17%. The increase is primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's financial prospects cannot yet be fully
evaluated because the Government must still establish a tariff structure. Indica-
tions are, however, that although the long-term outlook is quite satisfactory,
there could be cash flow problems in the initial few years.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The main problems of the project have been drought conditions slowing
down the planting program, inadequate Government budgetary allocations as well as
rising costs. It is expected that conditions will improve in 1977.
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: $63.0 million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The actual
expenditure for the project amounted to 26% of the total estimated completion cost
as of June 1976. As a result of the devaluation of the Kenya currency in October
1975, the project cost to the Borrower, in Kenyan pounds, is expected to be about
3% higher than the appraisal estimates. It has been agreed that the project
description be amended to include the financing of geothermal development, trans-
mission and national power development studies; the estimated cost of these studies
is US$350,000.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project: $10.0 million
Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 7, 1975; Closing Date:
July 1, 1979
Project commitments are well under way. About two-thirds of the loan is
expected to be committed by June 1977. As of April 30, 1977, disbursements
totalled $3.8 million.
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35 million Loan of
October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress is slower than anticipated. The initial equipment supply contracts
have been awarded, but the award of the major pipe supply and pipeline construction
contracts only recently took place and the project is now some 6-8 months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of December 31,
1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed; a
survey of the physical facilities to be extended of the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects for the Educational Broadcast-
ing and Multi Media Service Station design and construction supervision are being
established. The National Committee on Educational Objectives and Priorities
(NCEOP) has now completed its report. A Bank/UNESCO meeting to review the NCEOP
report took place in January 1977.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Development
Project: $10 million Loan and $10 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Annual Work Plan for FY77 has been prepared on time and the first group
of smallholders is receiving assistance this fiscal year. The Annual Work Plan for
FY78 is about to be submitted to the Association and BADEA for approval.
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17 million Loan of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Following the signing of the Loan Agreement on July 9, 1976, the Loan was
declared effective on November 10, 1976. Preparation for project implementation
started somewhat slower than expected. The Project Manager and the Assistant
Project Manager have taken up their positions, and it is hoped that project imple-
mentation will be accelerated when the remaining posts in the Project Management
Unit have been filled. In compliance with the condition for disbursements the
Government has submitted its proposal for the establishment and operation of anti-
poaching units to be financed from the Loan.   This proposal is under consideration
within the Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project: $4 million
Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: October 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Loan/Credit became effective in early October 1976, but no funds have
yet been disbursed. The Rural Access Roads Program, part of which is being
financed under the project, is behind schedule, but progress is improving.
Since loan negotiations, a few changes in evaluation and working methods have
been adopted in the light of experience and these appear to be beneficial to the
Program. The Government has submitted the evaluations for 6 districts for
financing under the project; construction units have already started in 2 of the
districts.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: $25.0 million Loan of
April 15, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
$20.0 million Credit and $5.0 million Loan of April 15, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
This credit and loan have not yet been declared effective.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
D. East African Community
There are currently five projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical-execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of con-
sultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues.
Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their
asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted
a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than 95%
complete.  The Closing Date    has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to
December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All Loan
funds are committed under contracts, which have been awarded. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA, will have to be
deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs and lighters
financed by CIDA have occurred, and the credit has been increased accordingly
from Can. $26.0 million to Can. $33.5 million. Port labor productivity has
stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo through-put has declined considerably.
General cargo through-put has increased above appraisal forecasts for
Dar-es-Salaam, where the three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have been
completed and are being used. Cargo handling productivity here has improved
with increasing through-put.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This Loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. Six sub-
projects have so far been received from the EADB of which four have
already been approved for a commitment of $4 million against this
Loan; the remaining projects are under review.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF systems
construction have now been completed despite initial delays caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the
headquarters. Delivery and installation of the UHF/VHF have now
commenced and bids have been received for the microwave. Because of
the long time lead required for the microwave equipment, the project
is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has
accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES
GUARANTEED BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA
AS AT APRIL 30, 1977
(US$ Million)
Amount Less Cancellation
No.     Year   Borrower    Purpose                Bank         Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed.                        93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC       Harbours               35.0             1.6
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                42.4             9.2
865-EA   1972   EAHC       Harbours               26.5             4.6
914-EA   1973   EAPTC      Telecommunications     32.5            6.7
1204-EA  1976   EADB      Development Finance     15.0            14.8
Total                                       244.8           36.9
of which has been repaid                   37.1
Total now outstanding                       207.7
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4         0
Total now held by Bank 1/                   207.7
Total Undisbursed                            38.0           36.9
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
(1)    Project Preparation:   Industrial Development Bank.
(2)    Appraisal:  An appraisal mission was sent to Kenya
in December 1976.
(3)    Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1977.
Special Bank Implementation Action
No special actions required.
Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained concerning:
(a)    IDB's share capital increase from KSh4.0 million to
KSh6.0 million and payment by its shareholders of all
authorized capital by December 1977 (see para. 45).
(b)    Increase IDB's debt-to-equity limitation from 3:1 to
4:1 (see para. 50).
(c)    The arrangements under which IDB would manage
Government funds (see paras. 52 - 54).



