77- 71)7
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1438 KE
Loan Agreement
(Third Industrial Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Dated June 22, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a company limited by shares established and operating
under the Companies Act (Cap. 486) of the Republic of Kenya.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment;
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment;
(e) "Kenya shillings" and "KSh" mean the currency of the
Guarantor;
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor;
(g) "Charter" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the Borrower dated January 9, 1973, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on February 15, 1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(i) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the
date of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided
for therein;
(j) "Capital Reconstruction Agreement" means the agreement
for the reconstruction of the capital of the Borrower dated
January 12, 1976 among the Guarantor, the Borrower, Industrial and


﻿-4-
Commercial Development Corporation, Kenya National Assurance
Company Limited and National Bank of Kenya Limited; and
(k) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borroi er and one
or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for
an Investment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts
to be expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project, to
finance the reasonable foreign-curren,-y cost of goods and
services required under a sub-loan or investment for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or
investment shall have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the
sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
For the purposes of the above, except as otherwise agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be authorized by the Bank in respect of expenditures
under a sub-loan or investment:
(i) in a foreign currency for goods procured, or
services supplied from, outside the territory of
the Guarantor;


﻿-6-
(ii) in Kenya shillings on account of not more than
sixty-five per cent (65%) of the invoiced price
for goods previously imported into the territory
of the Guarantor through normal trade channels;
and
(iii) in Kenya shillings on account of not more than
forty per cent (40%) of the contract price under
civil works and/or construction contracts to be
carried out in Kenya;
(said percentages in each case representing the estimated foreign
expenditure component).
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $600,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
of any Prior Loan for such Investment Project or (ii) $4,000,000
equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures


﻿-7-
made befoe 4V[h date of this Agreement or of expenditures made
by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to
the Bank's approval, or in respect of an investment, if such
expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank. shail have received in respect of
such sub-loan or investment the application and information
required 1y Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a
free-limit sub-loan, more nan ninety days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b)
of this Agreement.
ection 23. (a) 7Whten presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit   h -oa n) or an investment to the Bank -or approval,
the Borrower 1hall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the  n             rps and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and  onrdit1ons of the sub-loan or investment, including
the shedule  f amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment
to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment;
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request,


﻿-8-
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before July 1, 1980.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 1982 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.


﻿- 9 -
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on February 1 and August 1 in each
year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments
to the table of premiums on pr%.payment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval
by the Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a


﻿- 10 -
free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof; and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan
or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as fol ows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in Kenya as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country. The Project ccnsists in the financing of specific
development projects through loans to and investments in
productive enterprises in Kenya, in furtherance of the corporate
purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Charter and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project


﻿- 13 -
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery aud efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and (2)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take cut and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to


﻿- 14 -
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.


﻿- 15 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not make any change in
its Statement of Policy which materially affects the objectives,
operations or financial condition of the Borrower without the
prior approval of the Bank.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall conclude agreements with the
Guarantor satisfactory to the Bank by July 15, 1977, or such later
date as the Bank may accept, regarding the terms on which it will
manage loan and manage or undertake equity investments of the
Guarantor and shall not amend, nor permit the amendment of, such
agreements without the Bank's consent. Such agreements shall
adequately protect the Borrower from financial risks in connection
with such investments and shall provide for reasonable returns, or
in the case of equity investments reasonable prospects of such
returns, to the Borrower. Prior to the conclusion of such
agreements, the Borrower shall not, without the Bank's approval,
manage or undertake any equity investments of the Guarantor not
under its management on April 15, 1977.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) turnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not laLer
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 17 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as
security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property,
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in


﻿- 18 -
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
four times the consolidated capital and surplus of the -orrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of


﻿- 19 -
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Kenya shillings debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at wi-.' such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidaries"
means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by
any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subidiary.
In the event that the Borrower creates any new class of capital
stock, the foregoing definition may be revised at the Bank's
option, in such manner as the Bank shall reasonably determine.


﻿- 20 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Kenya shillings) used in its
lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter which would
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(d) any party to the Capital Reconstruction Agreement shall
have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of
such party under the Capital Reconstruction Agreement;
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project; and


﻿- 22 -
(f) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation on the part of the Borrower under any Prior Loan
Agreement or under any bond or similar instrument delivered
pursuant thereto or on the part of the Guarantor under any
guarantee agreement with the Bank relating to any of the foregoing
or under any bond or similar instrument delivered pursuant thereto.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or pa qgraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 shall occur;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of
Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of September 22, 1977 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Industrial Development Bank Limited
National Bank House
Harambee Avenue
P. 0. Box 44036
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVBANK                          22339
Nairobi, Kenya.                    Nairobi, Kenya


﻿-24 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
By /s/ J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
August 1, 1980                                   350,000
February 1, 1981                                 365,000
August 1, 1981                                   380,000
February 1, 1982                                 395,000
August 1, 1982                                   410,000
February 1, 1983                                 430,000
August 1, 1983                                   445,000
February 1, 1984                                 465,000
August 1, 1984                                   485,000
February 1, 1985                                 505,000
August 1, 1985                                   525,000
February 1, 1986                                 545,000
August 1, 1986                                   570,000
February 1, 1987                                 V90,000
August 1, 1987                                   615,000
February 1, 1988                                 640,000
August 1, 1988                                   665,000
February 1, 1989                                 695,000
August 1, 1989                                   725,000
February 1, 1990                                 750,000
August 1, 1990                                   785,000
February 1, 1991                                 815,000
August 1, 1991                                   850,000
February 1, 1992                                 885,000
August 1, 1992                                   920,000
February 1, 1993                                 960,000
August 1, 1993                                   995,000
February 1, 1994                               1,040,000
August 1, 1994                                 1,080,000
February 1, 1995                               1,120,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Sectioa 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any potion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.35%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.00%
More than eleven years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                        6.40%
More than fourteen years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                              7.30%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                              8.20%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the


﻿- 28 -
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


