                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29269

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-24760)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                                 FOR A

                           BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                               June 8, 2004




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/03)

               Currency Unit = XDR
                     1 XDR = US$ 1.4
                       US$ 1 = 0.71 XDR

                    FISCAL YEAR
                    July 1  June 30

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEIP     Basic Education Improvement Project
CCIMD    Center for Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development
CDEPI    Central Directorate for Educational Planning and Information
CDIST    Central Department for In-Service Training
CISD     Computer, Information and Statistics Directorate
DfID     Department for International Development (UK)
EEP      Education Enhancement Program
EMIS     Education Management Information System
GAEB     General Authority for Educational Buildings
GDIST    General Directorate for In-service Training
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LE       Egyptian Pound
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOIC     Ministry of International Cooperation
NCEEE    National Center for Examinations and Educational Evaluation
NER      Net Enrollment Rate
NIB      National Investment Bank
OUDA     Operational Unit for Developmental Assistance (UNDP)
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPMU     Program Planning and Monitoring Unit
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RTC      Regional Training Center
TA       Technical Assistance
TCID     Technical Committee for Institutional Development
TOMOHAR  Training Office for the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations Childrens' Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development

             Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
           Country Director     Mahmood A. Ayub
             Sector Director    Michal J. Rutkowski

Task Team Leader  Mahmoud Gamal El Din

                               EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
                    BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Issues in the Basic Education System
Annex 9. Comments from Project Partners

Project ID: P005161                                                  Project Name: BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Mahmoud Gamal El Din                                    TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-24760
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (40%); Secondary education (40%); Tertiary
                            education (12%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to
                            urban services for the poor (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/12/1991                                     Effective:                           03/18/1994
     Appraisal: 10/01/1992                                         MTR:                             12/07/1997
      Approval: 03/25/1993                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOE/MIN. OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:      UNDP

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Mahmood A. Ayub                                Ram K. Chopra
Sector Director:                Michal J. Rutkowski                            Douglas H. Keare
Team Leader at ICR:             Mahmoud Gamal El Din                           Melhem Salman
ICR Primary Author:             Mahmoud Gamal El Din


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the project was to assist the government in achieving universal enrollment in basic
education by improving and accelerating the implementation facet of its strategy to: (i) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE) to effect seamless and cogent systemic
management; (ii) improve instructional quality; (iii) provide universal access to basic education, focusing
on females and poor children; (iv) reduce illiteracy among children; and; (v) mobilize community support
and resources for the education sector.

Four components comprised project objectives: (i) improve access and equity through a well-designed
school construction and maintenance program that could be used as a model by the MOE; (ii) ameliorate
the quality of teaching and consolidate advances in curricula design by reinforcing the in-service teacher
training system; (iii) strengthen MOE's institutional capacity in policy analysis, management and education
planning through training of MOE staff and further development and efficient use of an educational
management information system (EMIS); and (iv) assist in defining policy options and alternatives in
addressing two priority education issues through studies to complement ongoing Bank-sponsored public
sector investment and human resources development studies.

Assessment:
Project objectives were consistent with the Government's reform program and with the Bank's overall
human resources development strategy for Egypt and its emphasis in the early 1990s on basic education as
a critical precursor to sustainable economic and human development.

Project design was ambitious yet simple to implement. First, the design team collaborated closely with and
drew upon the inputs and on-the-ground implementation experience of USAID, DfID, and UNICEF.
Second, the design team absorbed the lessons learned from the USAID-funded program of project
ownership and institutional development being key to implementation success. Third, the team analyzed the
then-current situation as cited in the Staff Appraisal Report.

Realistic and clear, the objectives fully addressed the prevailing sectoral issues. The operation was timely
for two reasons: USAID ceased supporting the sector in 1994 and the MOE needed to consolidate the
valuable inputs achieved. Secondly, the reform program gained momentum during the early 1990s with the
Bank's decision to support improvement initiatives in the basic education sector.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not changed during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the project were relevant to achieving the objectives. The construction and
maintenance component was directly related to improving enrollment, while strengthening the capacity of
GAEB and CEDPI was directly related to improving the planning and execution of the construction and
maintenance work. The capacity of the different implementing agencies was reviewed and capacity building
programs were designed accordingly. Lessons learned from previous projects with USAID were taken into
account.

Component A -- School Construction and Maintenance. This component was designed to help increase
primary and preparatory enrollments in rural and urban schools in seven priority governorates balancing
the needs to improve access for girls and poor children in rural areas with reducing severe problems of
overcrowding and multiple shifts in urban areas. The component aimed to (i) ensure adequate financial and
manpower resources for the maintenance of schools constructed under the project; (ii) consolidate the



                                                     - 2 -

MOE's maintenance initiatives involving local communities in the seven priority governorates; and (iii)
strengthen the institutional capacities of the MOE's Central Directorate for Educational Planning and
Information (CDEPI) and General Authority for Educational Buildings (GAEB) to carry out work in
planning and executing school construction and maintenance.

Component B -- In-Service Teacher Training. This component was to provide financial and technical
assistance to the in-service training system consistent with the demands of curricula development, teaching
approaches and examination practices. It focused on developing cost-effective teaching approaches and
examination practices, as well as developing cost-effective teaching methods and enhancing management
and instructional capabilities as a step toward improving instruction quality. In particular, the component
was to improve MOE capacity to plan, design, produce and use high-quality teacher training materials.

Component C -- Institutional Development in Management, Information and Planning at the MOE. This
component was to upgrade, modernize and increase the efficiency of the basic education sub-sector as a
step toward increasing the efficiency of the sector as a whole. It would assist the MOE to strengthen
management, planning and policy analysis. In the first phase, an institutional development program for
strengthening and improving the management and planning of basic education, through training and
retention of senior and mid-level management, was designed and sustained through the use of
knowledge-based systems and procedures as based on improvements in the design and use of information.
The second phase assessed the information needs of the MOE for effective management, planning and
policy analysis and designed a germane and reliable information system.

Component D -- Related Policy-Oriented Studies. Two studies were envisaged. The first study was to
address teacher salaries and preparation policies and programs, including the structure, operation and
effectiveness of the pre-service teacher education system. The second was to focus on ways to use
resources allocated to the education sector more effectively and efficiently and to mobilize additional
financial resources for the basic education system, taking into account the issue of equity.

3.4 Revised Components:
None of the components were revised formally during project implementation. Rather, the flexibility
inculcated in project design accommodated additional, or complementary, component-specific activities (see
Section 4).


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The rating is satisfactory. The project objectives and components were fully consistent with the priorities
of the sector set by the Government and the Bank, and the task team seamlessly integrated past, present and
future operations of the education sector. The task team realistically designed the project with an
implementation period of nine years based on the historical implementation record of Egyptian projects in
all sectors, even though this is considered "overage" by current Bankwide standards. Nevertheless, the team
was over-ambitious in forecasting a front-loaded disbursement plan which was unrealistic given numerous
Egyptian government requirements for project start-up.

As premised on USAID best practice, the National Investment Bank (NIB) was further developed and
supported throughout BEIP implementation to provide construction supervision and oversight; a matured
NIB was also used in the follow-up Education Enhancement Project (EEP). Recognizing the value of
enhanced capacity, the task team included funding in the Credit to improve GAEB operations and to train
its personnel. Concerted attention was paid to coordinating the technical assistance (TA) program for the
MOE: a Technical Committee for Institutional Development arose from the efforts and worked consistently
to implement a successful country-wide training program.

Project design emphasized integrating the internal MOE departments responsible for implementing



                                                     - 3 -

government policies at the Ministry to ensure project ownership. So too, a well-orchestrated project Launch
Workshop brought all relevant parties together and provided orientation on Bank policies and procedures
for implementation. This proved to be particularly valuable for the fledgling team at the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), who received an introduction to Bank procurement and disbursement protocols,
as well as briefings on the fiduciary aspects of project management. Given the Government's prohibition
against using Project Preparation Advances, task team support secured a US$700,000 UNDP Grant to use
for critical start-up activities; this was one of numerous efforts by the task team to solicit donor support.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project has achieved its objective and the outcome is rated satisfactory. Although the design
of original project followed a traditional brick and mortar approach at inception in 1993, a comprehensive
strategic framework was developed under a subsequent Education Enhancement Program (EEP) in 1996.
BEIP implementation subsequently was guided by and supported the overall policy framework for Egyptian
basic education, which is comprised of 11 million students, 26,400 schools (including primary and
preparatory) and 558,000 teachers. Per capita GDP is about USD 1,200 in Egypt. The project achieved its
main objective of improving equitable access to basic education. The gross enrollment rate (GER) for
primary education increased from 80 percent in 1991/92 (SAR) to 105 percent in 2002/03. Major
achievement was realized in reducing the gender gap in enrollment ratios from 12.9 percent in 1992/93 to
2.8 percent in 2002/03. While improving access through construction under BEIP increased enrollment by
about 70,000 students (representing 6.6 percent of the enrollment increase from 1992/93), the project set a
precedent for site selection through school mapping and by targeting disadvantaged areas. Under BEIP, 82
percent of the schools were built in rural areas and contributed to narrowing of the urban-rural gap in
enrollment from 7.2 percent in 1991/92 to 0.4 percent in 2001/02, then becoming 0.3 percent in favor of
the rural areas in 2003/04. An NCEEE assessment shows that the project-financed schools had a
significant impact on improving access in catchment areas by increasing enrollment by 7 percent in some
sites (such as 5 percent for boys and 9 percent for girls in Naga El Saqia School) with increases of up to 26
percent in other sites (21.5 percent for boys and 30.5 percent for girls). The assessment shows that the
impact of establishing the project schools was slightly higher for girls compared to boys. In 81.2 percent of
the school districts, enrollment significantly increased for girls, and in 78.1 percent of the school districts,
enrollment significantly increased for boys after establishing the project schools. The second objective was
to improve the quality of teaching and to consolidate advances in curricula design by reinforcing the
in-service teacher training system. The project established, along with the follow-on project EEP, a team of
Egyptian experts in the field of designing distance learning packages. By establishing this cadre, building
and equipping new teacher training centers throughout Egypt and supporting the in-service training
department, the MOE's training capacity increased significantly. This resulted in 126,707 teachers trained
representing 22 percent of the total number of teachers serving in the basic education stage. The NCEEE
initial assessment also found teacher satisfaction with the training: 91.7 percent of trained teachers
reported that training was sufficient to improve their performance; 96.3 percent of teachers trained rated
trainers as competent, while 87.9 percent judged the training equipment and facilities to be adequate; and,
87.5 percent of teachers believed the training could be further improved. Students' opinions (9,288 students
surveyed) were that trained teachers performed better than those who did not receive training. The third
objective was to improve institutional development in management, information and planning in the MOE.
The development of the EMIS and school mapping at GAEB helped in improving the school site selection
process. In terms of connectivity, project support has provided 20 percent of total MOE telephone-line
needs and all education directorates now have an ISDN line and a PC dedicated to each of the Statistics and
Planning Units. Training provided for 1,800 MOE senior and middle managers by the Technical Committee
for Institutional Development (TCID) has increased management capacity at the central, govornorate and


                                                      - 4 -

district levels. The fourth objective was to conduct two policy-oriented studies. The project supported eight
policy-oriented studies and the development of a comprehensive strategic framework for basic education
which was the basis for the follow-on project Education Enhancement Program.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A -- School Construction and Maintenance (US$43.4 million SAR, US$47.3 million actual).
A well-designed school construction and maintenance program using school mapping and a well-established
information system contributed significantly to improve equitable access to basic education.

    Activity Goal 1/Achievement and Output: Construction in three phases of 130 primary and 110
    preparatory schools in the governorates of Cairo, Sharkeya, Ismailia, Menofeya, Assiut, Sohag and
    Qena: Executed Satisfactorily. In response to the collapse of schools in the 1992 earthquake,
    codifications were revised to reinforce building structures and to better protect school children during
    emergencies. Project costs, therefore, rose significantly and deliverables were scaled back to 146 from
    240 schools; but the project managed to bring down the cost of school construction by about 10 percent
    after TA was provided to GAEB. The modifications recommended by the TA were generalized to all
    schools built throughout Egypt by GAEB and not only for project-financed schools. The savings
    achieved made it possible to finance 13 additional schools so the total number built under the project
    became 159 schools. Design of this component was appropriate for achieving the planned output, and
    the performance indicators were appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 2/Achievement and Output: Implementation through TOMOHAR of a training program
    on aspects of school maintenance for MOE and GAEB engineers and technicians. Provided as
    planned, exceeded original targets. Trained at GAEB headquarters and 27 mudiriyas
    (governorate-level branches) were 287 maintenance engineers, 805 newly appointed engineers, 493
    technicians and 2,373 civil, electrical, mechanical and various other engineers. Another maintenance
    training program was completed for 2,523 school headmasters and 4,918 staff responsible for school
    maintenance. These numbers far exceeded the original target. The performance indicator was
    appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 3/Achievement and Output: Provision of equipment, training and technical services for
    the MOE and NIB to enhance their capacity in the administration and supervision of school
    construction: Achieved Satisfactorily. The PIU was supported by two engineers to enhance the
    MOE's capacity in the administration and supervision of the school construction program. Also, MOE
    staff of the Planning & Follow up and Statistics Departments, both at the central and local levels,
    received training in the administration and monitoring of the school construction activity as part of the
    training of the 1,800 managers.       Both departments were provided with PCs, software, TA and
    maintenance at the central and local levels to enhance their capacity in managing the school
    construction program. NIB received financial support to purchase equipment and to hire engineering
    consultants to supervise the school construction component. The performance indicators were very
    general while they should have been more specific.

    Activity Goal 4/Achievement and Output: Provision to GAEB of equipment for a materials-testing
    laboratory and mobile soil-testing truck. Achieved Satisfactorily. GAEB received a materials-testing
    laboratory and a mobile soil-testing truck. GAEB now has similar materials-testing labs in all (27)
    governorate- level GAEB branches. The mobile truck for soil testing is used in remote areas. Design of
    this component was appropriate for achieving the planned output, and the performance indicators were
    appropriate for assessing the output.

Component B -- In-Service Teacher Training (US$10.5 million SAR; US$9.0 million Actual). Improve
the quality of teaching and consolidate advances in curricula design by reinforcing the in-service teacher



                                                     - 5 -

training system.

    Activity Goal 1/Achievement and Output: Construction or renovation of a facility to house GDIST's
    module production and distance education units. Construction was not executed as planned with
    project funds. Government financing was provided to renovate the training facility at Manshiet el
    Bakry. Instead, the Bank gave its approval for the Credit funds to partially finance (US$2 million) the
    construction of a new training and technology center in Cairo, the Mubarak Training Center, which
    was completed in February 2002. The performance indicator was appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 2/Achievement and Output: Provision of technical assistance for GDIST and local and
    overseas training for its staff. Achieved Satisfactorily. As a result of project support, GDIST was
    upgraded from a general to a central department, renamed CDIST (implying a higher ranking
    leadership since a Department head becomes an Undersecretary instead of a Director General and
    supervises two Directors General). Following the MOE's decision in 2000 to replace the cascade
    training method with distance learning for large numbers of teachers, a distance education program was
    partially financed from the Credit. TA and overseas training for distance learning were provided mainly
    through EEP to establish the cadre of national experts in distance education and training of GDIST
    staff. The target of training 123,870 teachers through distance learning was slightly exceeded
    (126,707). Design of this component was rather ambitious in the technical assistance and overseas
    training areas. The performance indicators were still appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 3/Achievement and Output: Construction and equipping of a new Regional Training
    Center (RTC) in the governorate of Qena and upgrading six existing RTCs. Achieved Satisfactorily.
    The facility was redesigned as a distribution center of distance learning materials to the participating
    governorates in Upper Egypt (disseminating through fiber-optic terrestrial lines or satellite) and a video
    conference center with an auditorium that seats approximately 300 trainees. The adaptation of the
    center's design reflected the audio-visual needs of the new distance learning education program.
    Implementation was delayed to accommodate the changes but construction was expeditiously
    completed in 2000. The center was provided with technological equipment, PC labs and PCs in 2001,
    and training was, therefore, enabled. Design of this component was appropriate for achieving the
    planned output, and the performance indicator was appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 4/Achievement and Output: Provision of equipment and materials for four GDIST
    units: Planning and Instructional Design, Production of Training Materials, Distance Learning and
    Internal Evaluation. Achieved Satisfactorily. The project, in coordination with EEP, played a major
    role in the production of training materials especially for distance education/learning. The Qena and
    Cairo Centers and several additional RTCs were supplied with equipment for teacher training; the
    Fayoum and Sharkeya video centers were equipped. Project-financed schools were provided with 159
    PC labs that are used by the school-based training units. In addition, the Internal Evaluation Unit
    received technical assistance from USAID. The performance indicators were general while they should
    have been more specific.

    Activity Goal 5/Achievement and Output: Implementation of training programs nationwide for
    trainers of trainers, trainers and teachers of science, mathematics and languages, and for a distance
    education pilot in three governorates. Achieved Satisfactorily. Training programs targeted all
    teachers in 12 governorates for the above-mentioned subjects, except for English language training
    which aimed for all teachers in all 27 governorates. The actual numbers represent 80-90 percent of the
    target. Training was provided to 35,000 teachers in science and math; 28,638 teachers in teaching
    methods for Grades 1-3; 11,038 teachers in computer literacy; 30,000 teachers in 27 governorates
    received Basic English Language training; and 2,082 teachers (Grades 1-3) in using technology in
    teaching. Training was also provided to 9,250 trainers and teachers in the National Education



                                                    - 6 -

    Standards. Design of this component was appropriate for achieving the planned output. The
    performance indicators were appropriate for assessing the output.

Component C -- Institutional Development in Management, Information and Planning in MOE (US$3.6
million SAR; US$16.2 million Actual).

    Activity Goal 1/Achievement and Output: Establishment of the TCID in the MOE; training programs
    for MOE personnel in management; planning and related fields. Achieved satisfactorily. The TCID
    was established and between July 1995 and July 2001: 1,800 senior and middle managers and staff
    from the MOE and governorates were trained in management and planning, or negotiation skills,
    effective leadership, strategic planning and educational administration; data collection; and general
    skills such as effective report writing, PC skills, Microsoft and elementary English, research and
    analysis methods. Design of this component was appropriate for achieving the planned output, and the
    performance indicators were appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 2/Achievement and Output: Provision of computer equipment, materials and technical
    services for CDEPI to assist in the development of an integrated basic education database and
    extend its use to MOE directorates in the governorates. Achieved satisfactorily. In addition to the
    provision of equipment (detailed earlier), courses in Oracle utilities, Unix system administration,
    Access programming, Visual Basic and PC maintenance were conducted for 50 participants from the
    specialized technical staff responsible for Basic Education at the MOE. The software and hardware for
    the system were also provided. Design of this component was appropriate for achieving the planned
    output, and the performance indicators were appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 3/Achievement and Output: Establishment of a facility for research, planning and
    follow up of the basic education program; physical planning and the EMIS (including equipment and
    materials). Achieved Satisfactorily. BEIP funding established the Program Planning and Monitoring
    Unit, which manages the EEP. The Computer, Information and Statistics Department (CISD) received
    an Alpha server in 1999 to support the EMIS; while installation of 320 ISDN lines improved the
    connectivity of the educational mudariyas and idaras to the EMIS, and a new EMIS facility was
    established by the MOE at its headquarters. Some 10,000 telephone lines were provided to schools to
    facilitate their connection to the internet and the EMIS. The EMIS has improved through the support of
    this project and EEP. Design of this component was appropriate for achieving the planned output, and
    the performance indicators were appropriate for assessing the output.

    Activity Goal 4/Achievement and Output: Provision of technical documentation and reference
    materials to support policy analysis and technology use. Achieved Satisfactorily. The MOE has
    made major achievements, as enumerated: all MOE data now are updated frequently instead of
    annually and distributed on CDs; the Technology Development Center initiated a profound advance in
    technical documentation and technology use vis-à-vis a VC network that reaches 58 locations in Egypt
    and TV satellite channels to reach (particularly remote) schools; and databases and CDs on educational
    materials were provided. Information on training and trainees is entered into the new EMIS, thus
    compiling databases for use in policy analysis. The performance indicators were general while they
    should have been more specific.

Component D -- Related Policy-Oriented Studies (US$0.1 million SAR; US$0.1 million Actual).
Achievement and Output. Achieved Satisfactorily. More than eight studies, prepared with project, EEP
and MOE financing, provided options for addressing priority issues in the basic education sector and
contributed to the development of a comprehensive strategic framework for basic education. The strategic
framework was the basis for the follow-on project Education Enhancement Program.




                                                      - 7 -

 PROJECT                                                    OUTPUT
COMPONEN
      TS
1. School          159 schools completed in 7 governorates: 104 Primary, 43             Preparatory, 12 Basic
Construction       Education [primary and preparatory].
and
Maintenance
                   GAEB headquarters and governorates: 287 maintenance engineers, 805 newly appointed
                   engineers, 493 technicians, 2,373 civil, electrical, mechanical and other engineers. Another
                   training program was completed for 2,523 school headmaster and 4,918 responsible for
                   school maintenance.
                   NIB received LE338,000 from 1995-1999 for supervision of school building construction
                   through GAEB. These funds enabled NIB to increase their capacity with additional staff,
                   equipment and training to undertake this work.
                   GAEB received the materials-testing laboratories and soil-testing truck in 1996.
2. In-Service      10,699 trainers trained in the subjects of English language, math, science and technology;
Teacher            28,638 teachers trained in new teaching methods through distance learning for Grades 1-3;
Training           11,038 teachers in 12 governorates trained in using PCs; 30,000 English language
                   teachers trained in all 27 Governorates; 35,000 math [20,000] and science [15,000]
                   teachers trained; 2,082 Technology teachers for Grades 1-3 of primary education trained;
                   9,250 trainers and teachers trained in the national education standards.
3. MOE             TCID was established. 1,800 senior staff of the MOE and governorates trained in
Institutional      management and planning [negotiations, effective leadership, strategic planning and
Development        educational administration]; data collection; general skills [effective report writing; PC
                   skills; Microsoft and elementary English] research and analysis methods.
                   MOE was provided with 101 PCs and peripherals along with the required software,
                   technical assistance and maintenance; 20 PCs for the central level and 81 for the local
                   level; 3 for each muderiya. Courses in Oracle utilities; Unix system administration;
                   Access programming; Visual Basic and PC maintenance were conducted for 50
                   participants from the specialized technical staff responsible for Basic Education at the
                   MOE. System soft- and hardware were also provided. 10,000 telephone lines provided for
                   primary and preparatory schools for connectivity to the MOE's EMIS. 159 schools
                   received PCs (one PC each) as part of the e-MOE and upgrading the EMIS.
4. Related         Studies in: Current Practices in Training; Use of Technology in the Classroom; Teacher
Policy-            Training Needs in the Use of Technology in Teaching; Use of Distance Education in
Oriented           Training; Motivation for Teachers; International Trends for Educational Supervision;
Studies            Training Needs for Supervisors of Arabic and Math; and A Vision Paper for Addressing
                   Priority Education Needs for the 21st Century were completed.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated for the project.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated for the project.


4.5 Institutional development impact:




                                                     - 8 -

The rating is Substantial. The project has made a positive impact on the institutional development of the
MOE and its departments as follows: (i) school construction modifications made as a result of TA under
the project have been generalized to all schools built in Egypt by GAEB since 1995, i.e., more than 10,000
schools; (ii) maintenance schemes, including planning and tracking have improved as a result of training
more than 3,000 engineers and technicians from GAEB with schools being maintained once every five
years and maintenance guides being used by GAEB throughout all 27 governorates of Egypt; (iii) CDIST
has become the main coordinating body for training in the MOE using cadres of trainers trained and using
materials designed under this project and EEP, especially the distance learning packages; (iv) the MOE's
capacity in training has increased dramatically through the construction of the Qena and Cairo Centers and
refurbishing of other RTCs; (v) school-based training units have been established in every school in Egypt;
(vi) the MOE's EMIS has been automated and is being used more effectively for decision-making, though
there is still room for improvement; (vii) GAEB's MIS has been improved with project financing and the
tendering process and the quality control of the construction process have been fully computerized. The
school mapping system's accuracy has improved and is used effectively in locating new schools; (viii) the
NCEEE is conducting regular assessments for schools in Egypt and the agency's performance improved
after receiving TA from this project and EEP; (ix) the MOE is continuing the provision of PC labs to all
school buildings in this project's (and EEP) successful experiment of supplying 1,400 schools with PC labs,
each lab consisting of 10 PCs; (x) the MOE is continuing its provision of PCs (one to every school) to
connect all schools in Egypt to the MOE's server and achieve the goal of becoming fully electronic,
building on this project's successful experience of providing its 159 financed schools with one PC each for
this purpose. Each school now has a "School-Based Evaluation Unit" that tracks and records the
performance of students; and (xi) the pilot of the school improvement fund, which was conducted in Sohag
Governorate, has developed into a "school improvement plan" and is being experimented in several
locations. Thus, the project has had a positive impact on improving the institutional capacity of many of the
MOE departments.

More importantly, the project contributed to the Bank's policy dialogue with the MOE, resulting in major
initiatives leading to: improved education quality; community mobilization through awareness campaigns;
school improvement funding, school-based Training and Evaluation Units; establishment of National
Education Standards; preparation of the First Strategic Plan; establishment of an advanced and automated
EMIS; e-learning; and other interventions.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Earthquake of October 1992: building codifications were revised, unit costs rose exponentially, and
deliverables had to be scaled back from 240 to 159 schools.

Exchange rate between the US Dollar and the Egyptian Pound and between the SDR and the US Dollar. At
project appraisal (December 1992), the Egyptian pound was much stronger than at project closing in
December 2003: respectively, LE3.31 to US$1 and LE6.17 to US$1. Also, a favorable exchange rate
between the SDR and the US Dollar resulted in the availability of more funds than originally expected
specially during the last 18 months of the project. This led to the cancellation of US$4.3 million surplus
funds.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delay in Credit Effectiveness. The Government's normal ratification procedures by the Parliament for
foreign borrowing took almost one year which delayed project start-up and subsequently project
implementation.

UNDP $700,000 Grant for project implementation start-up. Grant funds enabled the project to move



                                                     - 9 -

quickly into the implementation phase as follows: (i) established the PIU by securing offices, hiring staff,
and providing equipment and furnishings; (ii) conducted soil surveys at the sites of 50 project-financed
schools; (iii) contracted the American University in Cairo for expert services in support of the MOE
Management Training Program; (iv) initiate training programs for school maintenance with TOMOHAR:
250 persons trained in school construction and maintenance; and (v) began school maintenance study.

Education Enhancement Program (EEP). The IDA­EC-funded project became effective in July 1997 and
provided the policy framework for the ongoing BEIP activities. Specifically, EEP was implemented as an
evolving program of sector reform, using both quantitative and qualitative feedback mechanisms to guide
further implementation and policy reforms. EEP created Governorate Program Planning and Monitoring
Units to facilitate the ongoing BEIP work in the 15 governorates where EEP was being implemented, in the
areas of teacher training in English language and in the pilot "school improvement fund" in Sohag
Governorate. Moreover, EEP funded community awareness programs which empowered the community in
education and improved the interaction between the school and the community. Substantial synergy existed
between BEIP and EEP in the areas of institutional capacity development and in-service teacher training,
positively impacting the quality of the ongoing programs and their costs. The concurrent supervision of
BEIP and EEP resulted in cost savings to the Bank.

Continuity of senior-level management at the MOE. The incumbent Minister of Education, who came to
office when BEIP was being developed, was instrumental in shaping the project's development and in
facilitating the US$700,000 UNDP Grant. The Minister's tenure and strong vision for the Egyptian
education system have enabled the project to be guided positively during implementation.

General Authority for Education Buildings (GAEB). This semi-autonomous government agency began
operations in 1990 and collaborated closely with the project development teams in the design of the project.
GAEB is efficient and innovative in executing its mandate of constructing around 1,500 schools annually.
Its management has also been consistent and strong in carrying out the task of school construction and
maintenance.

Special conditions of the Egyptian construction industry and use of foreign nationals. About 60 percent of
the construction component was tendered under the Bank's international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures: to conform with Bank procurement guidelines, GAEB had to revise and translate its standard
designs and specifications into English which was a time-consuming process. Another obstacle was the
Government's general rule of not allowing the use of loan funds to finance foreign nationals unless local
expertise is unavailable. Both factors led to project implementation delays.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Use of experienced and well-qualified personnel. Project management was generally very good and the PIU
managers maintained excellent relations with Bank staff and facilitated visiting missions. PIU staff were
quick to respond to the requests of the Bank and visiting consultants. In particular, project accounts were
maintained accurately and with keen oversight. When delays occurred, they were usually due to the MOE's
need for more time to accomplish tasks, and not the result of inefficiency at the PIU.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The Credit of SDR40.0 million (US$55.5 million equivalent) was to finance 75 percent of the total project
costs (US$73.8 million) including contingencies but excluding taxes and duties. The proceeds of the Credit
were allocated as shown in Annex 2 and actual expenditures represent about 92 percent of the total Credit
amount; however, they represent more than 98 percent if the "unallocated" line item is excluded. Thus,
there is no significant difference between the planned and actual expenditures. The two categories that had
significant differences between planned and actual expenditures (amounts are relatively small relative to



                                                     - 10 -

overall costs) are the "Technical Assistance," which is category Number 3 of Schedule 1 of the CA, and the
"Operating Expenses," which is category Number 5 of Schedule 1 of the CA. The former was over
budgeted while the latter made its savings through the use of the UNDP grant in covering part of the
operating expenses.

In spite of a sharp increase in construction costs during the early years of project implementation, credit
funds were not depleted prematurely because the Bank and project management agreed to deliver fewer
schools than planned (240 originally planned, 146 negotiated, 159 delivered).

As stated above, a favorable exchange rate between the SDR and the US dollar resulted in the availability
of more funds than originally expected during the last 18 months of the project. As a result, additional
activities were programmed with Bank approval. The School Improvement Fund was piloted whereby
LE2,000 was allocated to improve the physical environment of project-financed schools in the Sohag
Governorate; 9,250 trainers and teachers were trained in the National Education Standards; 10,000
telephone lines were financed with uncommitted project funds to connect the schools to MOE's EMIS and
the internet. A balance of approximately US$4.3 million, representing the unutilized credit funds, is
expected to be cancelled from the Credit account by June 30, 2004.

The disbursement plan at appraisal was unrealistically high, particularly in the early stages of project
implementation (1994-1996). This was, in part, due to the delayed project start-up, with effectiveness
taking place about one year after project approval.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is Likely. Government commitment to improving the education system has been
demonstrated by the doubling in the share of funding for education in Egypt during the 1990s. The share of
education in public expenditure increased from 10 percent in 1990/1991 to 22.6 percent in 1996/1997 and
increased slightly in 2003/04; this share is high by international standards. In addition, Egypt is committed
to the Education for All (EFA) goals and is likely to achieve universal primary completion rate by 2015
and to ensure equitable access to primary education to both girls and boys by 2005.

Government ownership is expected to remain strong. GAEB is responsible for the school construction
program and has high capacity not only in construction but also in maintenance. In the area of improving
the quality of education, the MOE continues to set policies to ensure quality education for all and has
recently enunciated National Education Standards. The Standards introduce excellence in five domains:
effective schools, teachers management and community participation, as well as curriculum and student
achievement. Furthermore, quality is likely to increase following the establishment of the school-based
Training and Evaluation Units as these units start to play a greater role in training teachers and in assessing
student performance on a regular basis.

Stakeholder ownership is demonstrated through NGOs, Parent Teacher Associations and Boards of
Trustees. Community leaders ensure that initiatives started or piloted under the project activities, such as
the school improvement fund, are sustained. The NGO department of the MOE is expected to play a key
role in motivating, monitoring and building the capacity of NGOs to ensure sustainability of the successful
initiatives piloted under different projects.

MOE institutional and management effectiveness has been improved to some extent through the project,
particularly with regard to the in-service training programs and the EMIS for better policy- and
decision-making. The capacity of the various implementing agencies of the MOE, such as GAEB, CDIST,
both centrally and at the governorate level has been strengthened and further capacity building is continuing




                                                    - 11 -

under EEP.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the projects activities have been integrated into the regular work program and operations of the
MOE, minimizing the need for special transition arrangements. Moreover, BEIP was the first phase of a
long-term basic education improvement program that is now continuing through the EEP, which is
consolidating BEIP inputs in the areas of access and equity, quality of teaching and learning, and system
efficiency. An MOE Coordinating Committee monitors the performance of the implementing agencies that
support the Government's education strategy and serves as a forum to ensure that duplication of services is
avoided and that obstacles to implementation are removed. As noted above, GAEB has mainstreamed all
BEIP inputs for school construction and maintenance into its ongoing work program. The EMIS is also
enhancing efficiency of the education system through its links with GAEB, the schools and the local levels.
In-service teacher training programs are ongoing with greatly expanded capacity at the two major
project-supported regional training centers (Cairo and Upper Egypt). Both are fully operational and
managed by the MOE.

The NCEEE is conducting other evaluation studies, particularly longitudinal and baseline studies to
measure the progress of system indicators and to study the in-depth training impact. As part of the policy
dialogue, Egypt has joined TIMSS for the first time, which will help in comparing its education quality and
student achievement in math and science with other countries, both regionally and internationally. This may
result in new reforms in curricula and examinations. Also, recommendations have been made recently by a
joint Bank/European Commission supervision mission that the MOE should establish a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit within the ministry and support, as a priority, evaluation work.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The rating is Satisfactory. The Bank's decision to provide support for the sub-sector at a time when its
largest donor (USAID) ceased financing for basic education in Egypt was timely. The Bank's preparation
effort was consistent and comprehensive. Missions were suitably staffed with qualified and experienced
experts in relevant fields. The team carefully researched the issues that faced the basic education sector and
selected appropriate methods of addressing each issue.

In spite of the Government demand for school construction, the Bank team carefully balanced these needs
by supporting institutional and capacity development at the MOE to effect seamless and cogent systemic
management. The Bank team correctly identified in-service teacher training as a means of improving the
quality of teaching and learning in Egypt and programmed support in the project for upgrading thousands
of Egyptian teachers, as well as the institutions that trained them. The team originally selected the cascade
method of training which was later found not to be very effective. The team then decided to pilot distance
learning for in-service training; this was found to be a better solution and have greater advantages for
Egypt, particularly given the size of the country.

Development of the project was consistent with the Bank and Government sector strategies. The
Government's Third Five-Year Plan emphasized financing for the education sector and promoted an
integrated human resource and social development strategy that would create a well-trained labor force for
improved productivity and sustained, long-term economic growth. The appraisal team was quick to respond
to the ministry's needs following an earthquake that took place while the mission was in the field. The
school construction component required a complete revision of focus and costing. Experts were brought in
quickly to review the methods that GAEB would need to employ in changing the designs of schools and the



                                                    - 12 -

resulting costs. However, the team was overcome by the earthquake repercussions and did not request
GAEB to work simultaneously on the translation of the drawings and specifications, which resulted in
several months of delay of the implementation of the school construction component. The team correctly
concluded that the project should involve key ministry agencies in promoting ownership and capacity
building.

The team was conscious of the need for an effective project start-up and actively sought financial
assistance in advance of the Credit to establish an efficient PIU, fully staffed and equipped. Other
preparation activities (such as site selection, soil testing and relevant studies) began prior to project
effectiveness to preclude delays in implementation. The task team coupled with the Minister's dexterity
actively pursued and secured funding from the UNDP for project start-up.

The project development team, however, did not focus on designing a suitable monitoring and evaluation
system for the project implementation. Some indicators were developed for one of the components, but not
for all. Overall, the project was ambitious yet simple in its design and flexible enough to allow changes
over time. The team recognized that the Borrower would need a long implementation phase to carry out
project activities and foster ownership among ministry departments and entities.


7.2 Supervision:
The rating is Satisfactory. The Bank's supervision efforts were intensive and consistent from the early
stages of project implementation. An average of three missions per year were programmed to ensure the
necessary technical assistance to the Government teams who were unfamiliar with the Bank and its
procedures and guidelines. The Bank teams assisted in forging solid links between the PIUs of the various
ongoing projects in the sector, so that the older Units could mentor the fledgling PIU at the MOE.
Moreover, the Bank team conducted a comprehensive, effective and instructive project Launch Workshop
and key participants were briefed fully on their respective roles.

The school construction component, although late in take off by about one year, was implemented in a
timely manner and most of the planned schools were completed before the year 2000. However, the
in-service teacher training component was delayed for a long period due to limited local capacity to
implement training through distance learning. Establishing a cadre of experts capable of preparing the
distance learning materials required long periods where they had to travel abroad and foreign experts had to
come to Egypt to finalize their training cycle. After completion of training, the new experts started to
prepare the distance learning materials for one subject which was field tested. Only after the field testing
did the actual training of thousands of teachers begin. This resulted in a three-year delay in this component
and a one-year extension was required.

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group's (QAG) evaluated the project in October 2000 (six years into
project implementation). The quality of the overall supervision effort noted by QAG was found to be
Satisfactory. The assessment noted that Management and the team have done a commendable job for
maximizing the development impact by complementing this project with a policy framework and a second
project (which focuses on aspects of educational policy). These projects were supervised jointly to monitor
outputs and outcomes. Both the combined supervision of two projects and the cluster approach enabled a
budgetary saving of about 25 percent. The combination of the cluster approach of having a sectoral
specialist overseeing educational aspects and field-based task management of implementation has produced
notable results. This team too has been effective in building trust with the client necessary for effective
policy dialogue. Procurement has been handled particularly well, with ex-post reviews done thoroughly and
with positive results. Supervision of financial management was satisfactory, but reporting to the Bank on
this aspect of supervision could have been more complete. Supervision of the project following the QAG



                                                    - 13 -

review was guided by the QAG recommendations.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The rating is Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance has been satisfactory for all the reasons
mentioned above. The Bank team benefited from and took into account previous lessons from other donors.
It managed to balance the traditional approach (brick and mortar) with the qualitative approach of quality
of instruction and capacity building. In doing so, it worked closely with the Borrower, covered all fiduciary
aspects adequately and managed to achieve the project outputs and outcome indicators.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The rating is Satisfactory. The Borrower's team collaborated fully with the Bank and was very helpful in
providing all the necessary assistance during project preparation. The MOE organized a counterpart team
to work with the Bank's team during preparation missions, and there was full collaboration and cooperation
in designing the project. The Minister formed a `Think Tank' of local experts to plan relevant studies to be
financed by the project. GAEB worked closely with the Bank team to identify their needs to deliver an
effective school building strategy. MOE personnel at the various agencies involved in the project's
development provided their time and commitment to the project. The process of ratifying the project
documents through the Parliament was, however, very long and contributed to a delay in project start-up .


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The rating is Satisfactory. The current Minister was instrumental in facilitating the process of obtaining
the UNDP Grant used to establish the PIU and other essential project start-up activities. The Minister also
expedited the decree to establish distance learning as the new method for in-service teacher training,
significantly enhancing the opportunities for speedy implementation of this component, and in close
coordination with the teacher training program proposed for support from the EEP. The Minister assigned
experienced and qualified staff to lead the PIU, including quickly filling two managerial vacancies after the
unfortunate deaths of two PIU managers. The MOE organized the Technical Committee for Institutional
Development (TCID), which planned and executed all of the MOE's training activities over several years of
project implementation and developed into the Higher Committee for Training in 2001. The distance
learning component was delayed due to the lack of local capacity in the distance learning method of
training. It took almost three years to establish the cadre of experts in this field, prepare the training
materials for the different subjects and actually begin the training activity for both the trainers and teachers.
Nevertheless, as a result, this project and EEP managed to train more than 50 percent of the total number
of teachers throughout Egypt (i.e., more than 300,000 teachers).


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The rating is Satisfactory. A small but efficient PIU was established. Staff did not change significantly
over the years and assignments were performed efficiently. Project managers were dedicated and
cooperated fully with Bank teams: relationships were very cordial and collaborative. Project financial
management was very well undertaken, and in spite of the fact that a computerized MIS was never
established, the financial aspects of the project were executed effectively. The Unit staff responded
positively to coaching by Bank and consultant teams and submitted adequate project implementation
Progress Reports.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The rating is satisfactory. Overall, the Borrower's performance has been satisfactory for all the reasons
mentioned above. The Borrower's commitment toward financing education was very high. The Borrower's


                                                     - 14 -

project team cooperated fully with the Bank's team during project preparation as well as during the life of
project and met or exceeded all fiduciary requirements.

8. Lessons Learned

1. Advance financing is vital to the efficient start-up of a project. The UNDP Grant in the amount of
US$700,000 was an important element in jump starting the necessary activities to launch the project into
its implementation phase. Egypt does not permit the use of advances from the Credit proceeds before full
ratification of the project by Parliament. In view of the substantial delay (one year) in this process, the
project would have suffered a considerable set back if the funding provided by the UNDP Grant had not
been made available to start key operational activities.

2. Project funding for key project implementing agencies is beneficial to the project's sustainability and
future operation. The project used the existing MOE implementing agencies (GAEB, CDEPI, NCEEE,
etc.) to carry out its activities. The project financed training for the various project implementing agencies
and as such, valuable capacity was built up within the MOE and the agencies with which it works on a
daily basis. As a result, relatively little transitional arrangements were required at the end of the project.

3. Use of Government agencies outside the MOE to monitor specific project inputs is beneficial. The
project's use of the National Investment Bank (NIB) for construction supervision, oversight and review of
the GAEB's work was a valuable experience, validating the fiduciary aspects as well. NIB, through timely
and consistent visits to project sites, ensured that quality construction work was being executed by the
contractors and by GAEB site supervision engineers. It also enabled the PIU to check the physical progress
of school construction work against the payments made by GAEB to the various contractors.

4. A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system should be an integral part of the project. This project only
had a "monitoring and assessment" system only two of its components: the teacher training and the
institutional development components. It should have been designed with a formal M&E program for all of
its components. The Bank standards at the time of project appraisal did not require a full and formal M&E
plan to be part of the project. As such, there were inadequate guidelines for monitoring and systematic
evaluation of ongoing activities against stated indicators. No baseline data were available and proved
difficult for implementing agencies, especially in the teacher training activity, to measure the progress and
impact of project-financed inputs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Detalied in Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Detailed in Annex 9

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Detaled in Annex 9.

10. Additional Information




                                                         - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate

OBJECTIVE 1: Improve Access and equity        Nationwide, Net Enrollment Rate in          Nationwide, NER has exceeded 98% i.e.
through a well-designed school construction   2003/04: 98%. 159 primary and               98.9%). School Construction program has
and maintenance program                       preparatory schools completed and           been completed as planned through GAEB
                                              operational.                                with oversight for construction provided by
                                                                                          the NIB. New school designs were
                                                                                          approved and utilized, schools were
                                                                                          constructed in underserved and
                                                                                          overcrowded areas and maintenance
                                                                                          training programs were carried out by
                                                                                          TOMOHAR for GAEB and School
                                                                                          personnel.

OBJECTIVE 2: Improve the quality of           Training packages for classroom teachers    The quality of teaching was improved
teaching and consolidate advancements in      (primary school grades 1- 3), English       through the upgrading of six regional
curricula design through reinforcement of the language teachers, math teachers and        training centers [some were equipped and
in-service training system                    science teachers (all in both primary &     other rehabilitated]. Funds were provided
                                              preparatory) prepared, produced and         for the construction of two major regional
                                              distributed to 100,000 teachers in their    training centers [at Qena and in Cairo]. A
                                              specializations.                            distance learning program was initiated and
                                                                                          is now being fully executed under a follow
                                                                                          up project ­ the EEP. 126,707 teachers
                                                                                          trained.

OBJECTIVE 3: Enhance MOE's                    EMIS completely unified (Azhar included); Equipment and training for an educational
institutional capacity in policy analysis,    all educational measures are available     management information system [EMIS] were
management and education planning through through the new EMIS; planning and policy provided. The EMIS is now housed at its
training of MOE staff and further             decisions are made against analysis of     expanded and improved quarters at MOE's
development and efficient use of an education educational data; managers are selected    HQ. EMIS is fully automated at HQ,
management information system [EMIS]          based on experience, qualifications and    Mudiriyas (Governorate level) and Idaras
                                              performance.                               (district level). Azhar data is included only
                                                                                         once a year. Education indicators are available
                                                                                         through through the new EMIS. Managers are
                                                                                         selected based on experience, qualifications
                                                                                         and performance (the current first
                                                                                         undersecretary is a good example of this new
                                                                                         policy). A technical committee for
                                                                                         institutional development was formed which
                                                                                         organized and had oversight for training
                                                                                         provided for ministry personnel.

OBJECTIVE 4: Assist in the formulation of     Policy studies on relevant basic education  A governmental `think tank' was formed to
options for addressing priority basic         issues completed.                           plan and initiated studies that would assist
education issues                                                                          in the formulation of options for addressing
                                                                                          priority basic education issues. More than
                                                                                          eight studies were executed.
                                                                                          COMPLETED STUDIES: An EMIS
                                                                                          Master Plan and Needs Assessment Study;
                                                                                          A Teacher Training Master Plan; A
                                                                                          Household Education Survey; In-service
                                                                                          Teacher Training via Distance Learning; A
                                                                                          School Maintenance Study.
                                                                                          A vision paper for addressing priority
                                                                                          education needs for the 21st Century was
                                                                                          also completed. This paper led to the
                                                                                          development of a policy framework for the
                                                                                          reform of pre-university education which
                                                                                          resulted in two sectoral reform operations ­
                                                                                          the Education Enhancement Program
                                                                                          [approved in 1997] and the Secondary
                                                                                          Education Enhancement Program
                                                                                          [approved in 1999]

                                                                                         DISTANCE LEARNING STUDIES:




                                                                       - 16 -

                                                                                         Open & Distance Learning; Motivation for
                                                                                         Teachers; International Trends for Educational
                                                                                         Supervision; Training Needs for Supervisors of
                                                                                         Arabic and Math (Workshop Report); Teacher
                                                                                         Manual for the Production and Use of Sample
                                                                                         Educational Aids).



     Indicator/Matrix            Projected in last PSR                                Actual/Latest Estimate

Component 1 - School         159 schools constructed       159 schools have been completed in 7 governorates. Primary ­104;
Construction & Maintenance                                 Preparatory ­43; Basic Education [primary and prep] ­ 12.
                            350 GAEB engineers and         GAEB headquarters and governorates 3,373 engineers & technicians trained
                            technicians trained; 10,000    as follows: 287 maintenance engineers; 805 newly appointed engineers; 493
                            administrators, headmasters,   technicians; 2373 engineers [civil, electrical, mechanical and other].
                            teachers and workers trained   Training program also completed for 2523 school headmaster and 4918
                                                           responsible for school maintenance (total numbers trained 11,299 in both
                                                           MOE & GAEB).
                            Equipment, training &           NIB received LE338,000 from 1995-1999 for supervision of school
                            technical services provided for building construction through GAEB. These funds enabled NIB to
                            NIB to enhance their capacity   increase their capacity with additional staff, equipment and training to
                            in the administration &         undertake this work.
                            supervision of school
                            construction
                            Equipment for a material        GAEB received the mobile testing lab and material testing laboratories in
                            testing laboratory for GAEB     1996.
                            provided.

Component 2 - In-Service     Training packages for          A total of 126,707 trainers and teachers trained as follows: 10,699
Teacher Training             classroom teachers (primary    trainers trained in the subjects of English language, math, science and
                             school grades 1-3) English     technology; 28,638 teachers trained in new teaching methods through
                             language, math and science     distance learning for Grades 1-3; 11,033 teachers in 12 governorates
                             teachers (all in primary and   trained in using PCs; 30,000 English language teachers trained in all 27
                             prep) prepared, produced       Governorates; 35,000 Math [20,000] and Science [15,000] teachers
                             and distributed to 100,000     trained; 2,082 Technology teachers for Grades 1-3 of primary education
                             teachers in their              trained; 9,250 trainers and teachers trained in the national education
                             specializations                standards.

Component 3 - Strengthening  TICD established and           The TCID was established. Between July 1995 and July 2001
MOE's capacity in            functioning                    approximately 1800 senior staff of the MOE and governorates were
management, planning and                                    trained in management and planning [negotiations, effective leadership,
policy analysis                                             strategic planning and educational administration]; data collection;
                                                            general skills [effective report writing; PC skills; Microsoft and
                                                            elementary English] research and analysis methods.
                            Equipment, training and         The MOE was provided with 101 PCs and peripherals along with the
                            technical services for MOE      required software, technical assistance and maintenance; 20 PCs for the
                            provided to enhance their       central level and 81 for the local level; 3 for each muderiya. Courses in
                            capacity in the administration  Oracle utilities; unix system administration; access programming; visual
                            and supervision of school       basic and PC maintenance were conducted for 50 participants from the
                            construction                    specialized technical staff responsible for Basic Education at the MOE.
                                                            The software and hardware for the system were also provided. Database
                                                            and CD roms on educational materials also provided. The PPMU
                                                            supplemented CDEPI functions in planning and policy analysis and was
                                                            established under the follow on Project to the BEIP ­ the Education
                                                            Enhancement Program. 10,000 telephone lines provided for primary and
                                                            prep schools for connectivity to the MOE's EMIS. 159 schools received
                                                            PCs (one PC each) as part of the e-MOE and upgrading the EMIS.

Component 4 - Relevant      A policy study on curriculum    Curriculum reform took place twice since appraisal in 1992; curriculum
Policy Studies              reform completed.               revisions take place every two years (one is currently underway).




                                                                   - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal    Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate       Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                                US$ million     US$ million
Work                                                               40.00             42.29                106
Goods                                                               3.75               4.53               121
Training & technical courses                                        5.15               2.04                40
Teacher training                                                    2.83               2.16                76
Operating expenses                                                  0.37               0.13                34
Unallocated                                                         3.40

Total Baseline Cost                                                55.50             51.15
 Physical Contingencies                                                                                   92.2
                          Total Project Costs                      55.50             51.15
                    Total Financing Required                       55.50             51.15



                 Expenditure                    Procurement Method                                 Procurement Meth
                  Categories                      Appraisal Estimate                               Actual/Latest Estim
                                    ICB        NCB         Other      NBF      Total     ICB       NCB       Other
                 1. Works           27.0        19.4                           46.4      27.9      12.4       2.0
                 2. Goods             2.3                    1.4      4.6        8.3      1.7                 2.9
                 3. Services                                 9.6                 9.6                          4.2
                 4. Misc.                                    0.8      8.7        9.5                          0.2

                 Total              29.3        19.4        11.8      13.3     73.8      29.6      12.4       9.3



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)** Note: NBF = Not Bank
Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants under trust
funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements
for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to
the table.




                                                     - 18 -

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
          Component             Bank    Govt    Cofin. Bank     Govt     Cofin. Bank    Govt.    Cofin
1. institutional development    5.300  0.200     0.700 4.345    0.133    0.700   82       66      100

2. project management           0.300  0.400           0.125    0.050            41      12.5

3. in-service teacher training  8.500  8.500           6.940    8.352            81       98

4. school construction and      41.300 9.200*          39.742   8.925            96       97
maintenance

5. studies                      0.100                   0**                       0

contingencies
                                55.500 18.300    0.700 51.152  17.460    0.700  92.2     95.4     100




                                               - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/1991                    2    TTL/Op. Officer, Education
                                             Specialist
              1/1992                    7    TTL, Sr. General Educator,
                                             Mgmt. Info. Spec., Ops. Officer,
                                             Institutional Dev. Spec., Teacher
                                             Training Spec., Research
                                             Assistant
              5/1992                    6    TTL, Mgmt. Info. Spec., Sr.
                                             General Educator, Institutional
                                             Dev. Spec., Architect, Program
                                             Assistant


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/92                     9    TTL, Sr. General Educator,
                                             Human Dev. Spec., Mgmt.
                                             Info. Spec., Architect,
                                             Facilities Planner, Engineer,
                                             Institutional Dev. Spec.,
                                             Teacher Training Spec.,
                                             Research Assistant
              12/93                     3    TTL, Engineer/Architect
                                             Operations Officer


 Supervision
              04/94                     6    Project launch - TTL
                                             Sr. General Educator
                                             Institutional Dev. Specialist
                                             Architect/Facilities Planner
                                             Mgmt. Info. Specialiset
                                             Operations Officer
              06/1994                   3    RES.MSN.CONS.ENGINEER                 S               1
                                             (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              01/1995                   3    CONS.TECHNOLOGY SP. (1);              S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             ENGINEER RES.MSN. (1)
              06/1995                   3    SR.EDUCATOR (1);                      S               S
                                             RES.MSN.PROC.SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              12/1995                   4    SR.GENERAL EDUCATOR (1);              S               S
                                             SR.EDUC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROC. SP. (1)



                                              - 21 -

06/1996    2 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);      S    S
             PROC. SP. (1)
01/1997    3 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);      S    S
             SR. GENERAL EDUCATOR
             (1); PROC. SP. (1)
04/1997    3 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);      S    S
             IMPLEMENTATION SP. (1);
             PEOC. SP. (1)
12/97      3 TTL/Sr. EDUCATION            S    S
             SPECIALIST (1);
             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
             PROC. SP. (1)
05/1998    3 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
             HUMAN RESOURCES SP. (1);
             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
10/1998    4 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
             PROGRAM OFFICER, EGYPT
             (1); IMPLEMENTATION SP.
             (1); ARCHITECT (1)
06/1999    6 PRINCIPAL EDUCATOR (1);      S    S
             OPERATIONS OFFICER
             (1);MANAGEMENT INFO.
             SPECIALIST (1); PROC. SP.
             (1); TEACHER TRAINING
             SPECIALIST (1); CLASSROOM
             TECHNOLOGY SP. (1)
08/1999    8 CLUSTER LEADER (1);          S    S
             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
             EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
             (1); ARCHITECT (1);
             DISTANCE LEARNING SPEC
             (1); PROJECT DIRECTOR (1);
             FINANCIAL MANAGER (1)
11/1999    5 TTL/Sr.EDUCATION SP. (1);    S    S
             EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
             SP. (1)
             ARCHITECT/FACILITIES
             PLANNER (1);
             PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
             TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
07/2000    1 TTL/Sr. IMPLEMENTATION       S    S
             SP./PAS (1)
01/2001    1 TTL/Sr. IMPLEMENTATION       S    S
             SP./PAS (1)
07/2001    1 TTL/Sr. IMPLEMENTATION       S    S
             SP./PAS (1)
04/2002    2 TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)
12/2002    3 TTL/Sr. IMPLEMENTATION       S    S
             SP./PAS (1); Sr. FMS (1);
             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
12/2003    5 TTL/Sr. IMPLEMENTATION       S    S




             - 22 -

                                            SP./PAS (1);LEAD GENERAL
                                            EDUCATOR (1); Sr. FMS (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)

 ICR
               04/2004                4     TTL/Sr.                           S    S
                                            IMPLEMENTATION
                                            SP./PAS(1); FMS (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               80                          278
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    73                          256
  Supervision                            180                           409
  ICR                                      12                           60
  Total                                  345                          1003




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire for the Project Preparation Mission ­ Translated into Arabic

Progress Report ­ In-service Teacher Training Progress Report on the Science, Mathematics and English
Language training program , includes the status of the Institutional Dev. Component ­ January to May
1996

Progress Report ­ Institutional Development Component ­ October 1997

Report ­ Developing Distance Learning Delivered In-service Training for Teachers in the Arab Republic of
Egypt ­ Michael Moore and Greville Rumble ­ August 1996

Household Education Survey ­ CAPMAS

GAEB School Maintenance Study

UNDP Project Document ­ Project EGY/92/018 ­ Strengthening the Capacity of the Education Sector for
the Planning and Managing of Human Resources Development Programs

Report on School Buildings after the Earthquake of 12 October 1992 ­ prepared by UNESCO Consultant
Architect, Mr. George Ziogas, prepared in November 1992




                                                   - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Issues in the Basic Education System

Issues identified during project appraisal (March 1993) in the Egyptian Basic Education System and
improvements made within the project's lifespan (through December 2003) by IDA and other development
partners are as follows:


 Issues Identified at Project                             Current Situation (December 2003)
   Appraisal (March 1993)
1. Limited institutional and     The Minister of Education has instituted management training throughout the ministry and training is
managerial capabilities within   now a prerequisite for promotion. English and computer skills training is compulsory. A Higher
the MOE, as typified by          Committee for Training was established (which replaced the Technical Committee for Institutional
its bureaucracy,weak             Development) to review and supervise the MOE training needs in all areas including management
administrative skills and        training for MOE staff at all levels; teacher training (both pre-service and in-service), etc. There are
lack of coordination among       six-month management training programs, and E-government started in September 2002 and focuses on
administrative units.            linking the data of all governorates through an EMIS. Video conferencing enables the directorates to
                                 work together on their ongoing programs. The Programme Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) of
                                 the MOE, which manages the Education Enhancement Programme (financed by the World Bank and
                                 EU), was established in 1997. The Minister of Education has issued a decree that empowers PTAs and
                                 Boards of Trustees for better management at the school level and for better quality of education. Middle
                                 level managers who have English proficiency (at least a level of 500 in the TOEFL) are eligible to
                                 participate in three-month training programs abroad, financed under the EEP. About 8,000 managers
                                 and teachers have benefited from this training to date.

2. Low educational              Teaching Quality: Regional Training Centers (RTCs) have increased from 6 to 12 during the Project's
effectiveness resulting from    lifespan. The increase has helped to cover the increasing demands of in-service training for teachers, and
low teacher quality and morale, the Government's decision to conduct in-service teacher training through Distance Learning was
limited and often inadequate    supported under the BEIP and EEP Projects. Under EEP, distance learning packages were designed
instructional materials, and    (with the British Open University) to broaden the coverage of in-service training. To date, 126,707
incomplete implementation       trainers and teachers have been trained in the subjects of English language, math, science and technology
of curricula changes.           under BEIP. The impact of the improvement of teaching quality will be measured through improvement
                                in students' attainment. Egypt now participates in the TIIMS. The last Baseline Study was conducted in
                                1998 and it will be updated in 2004.
                                Teacher Morale: Policy changes have been introduced to improve teacher morale by a doubling of
                                teachers allowances over the past ten years. As an additional incentive, teachers in remote areas now
                                receive LE100 extra per month. There is new health insurance for teachers that enables the use of better
                                hospital and medical services. There is also a discount shopping program for teachers.
                                Instructional Materials: BEIP facilitated the upgrade of equipment for all teacher
                                training centers and the instructional materials for all the distance learning training
                                programs.
                                Curricula: All primary and preparatory curricula are revised every two years.

3. Inequitable access to         Access to basic education schools has improved as a result of the school construction and maintenance
education, particularly for      program financed mainly under the MOE's regular budget and supported by the BEIP and EEP projects.
girls and poor children.         The GAEB's information and school mapping system has been supported and expanded by project
                                 funds for better planning and construction of school facilities. The gross enrollment rate (NER) for
                                 primary education has increased from 90 percent in 1991/92 (SAR) to 105 percent in 2003/04. The
                                 gender gap in enrollment ratios has shrunk from 12.9 percent in 1992/93 to 2.8 percent in 2002/03.
                                 Dropout among girls in 2003/04 is lower than that among boys in both primary and prepatory stages.
4. Inadequate and inequitable The share of education in public expenditures increased from 10 percent in 1990/91 to 22.6 percent in
resource mobilization efforts.  1996/97 and remained at about 23 percent through 2003/04. Under EEP, the EU supports 15
                                governorates with this basic education program in the amount of EUR100 million. The other donors
                                supporting programs for the Egyptian Education system are USAID, KFW, CIDA and JICA. In
                                November 2003, a donor conference was sponsored by the MOE to discuss future pledges of support.
                                Donor funds have contributed to reducing inequity by targeting disadvantaged populations and areas,
                                particularly girls in rural areas. For example, under BEIP 82.5 percent of the project schools were built
                                in rural areas. EEP targeted girls and contributed to reducing the gender gap as shown in the narrowing




                                                              - 27 -

                               of the differences in enrollment ratios from 12.9 percent in 1992/93 to 2.8 percent in 2002/03.
5. Inadequate policy and        The MOE established a department for NGOs working in the Education sector and since 2000 there
regulatory framework to         have been three conferences with NGOs to enhance community participation. The follow-on project of
encourage private sector        BEIP, i.e. EEP, financed 1,046 awareness campaigns in cooperation and coordination with NGOs.
contributions to the financing  PTAs and BOTs are now playing a more active role in monitoring and improving education at the
and provision of basic          school level. The MOE encouraged cooperation with businessmen through the "Adopt A School"
education.                      program, where businessmen provide schools with PCs, equipment and donations.




                                                           - 28 -

Additional Annex 9. Comments from Project Partners

Partner Comments

(a)     Borrower/implementing agency:


Project Background

IDA Credit 1476-EGT in the amount of SDR 40.0 million (US$55.5 million equivalent) was
approved on March 25, 1993, signed on August 13, 1993 and became effective on March 18,
1994. Its activities actually began in March 1995.

The Project is the first phase of a sector strategy aimed at consolidating MOE's achievements in
the Basic Education Reform program.

Its objectives are:
a.      Improve access and equity through a well designed school construction and maintenance
program;
b.      Improve the quality of teaching and consolidate advancements in curricula design through
reinforcement of the in-service teacher training system;
c.      Enhance MOE's institutional capacity in policy analysis, management and education
planning through training of MOE staff and further development and efficient use of an education
management information system - EMIS;
d.      Help to define policy options and alternatives in addressing two selected priority education
issues through studies to complement ongoing Bank-sponsored public sector investment and
human resource development studies.

To accomplish the above objectives, it is important to note the following:

1.      School Construction and Maintenance

The objective of this component is to increase primary and preparatory school enrollment in urban
and rural schools in seven priority governorates. The Project achieved its goal in this area by:

a.      Studies by national and international experts which led to new design and specs of school
construction (especially after the effects of the earthquake);
b.      Construction of 159 schools. Through GAEB, the Project financed 90% of building 159
schools in seven governorates as follows:

   Governorate           Primary          Preparatory           Basic            Total
Sharkia                    31                   9                7                 47
Sohag                       32                 13                2                 47
Assiut                      14                  6                2                 22
Ismailia                    10                 10                1                 21
Qena                        5                   1                -                 6



                                                 - 29 -

Cairo                      4                  2                 -                 6
Munufia                    8                  2                 -                 10
                          104                43                 12               159


Taken into consideration that the majority of these schools are completed in the early years of the
Project (1996-1999) which affected the increase of enrollment.

c.     NIB supervised School Construction. To have control and supervision, the Project
contracted NIB to supervise school construction executed by the contractors through GAEB.
d.     Enhanced Materials Testing Capacity ­ the Project provided GAEB with (1996):

-      a materials testing laboratory
-      a mobile soil testing truck

These items enhanced GAEB's capacity in the area of testing materials and soil testing.

e.     Training in Maintenance ­ During the life of the Project, there were continuous training
for GAEB's engineers, technicians, maintenance engineers, newly appointed engineers ­ 1998
(554); 1999 (967); 2000 (904); 2001 (764); 2002 (469); 2003 (475) ­ for a total of 4133.
f.     Maintenance Efficiency at the School Level. Training on the importance of
maintenance and small repairs was delivered to 2523 directors, headmasters of schools and 4918
responsible for maintenance at schools (12 Governorates).
g.     Improving School Performance. Each school is equipped with a computer lab (10 PCs)
net connected. Pilot for a School Improvement Fund was given to 40 schools at Sohag
Governorate (2,000 Egyptian Pounds for each school).


2.     In-service Teacher Training

(i)    Constructing New Training Centers

(a)    Qena Center

The Project financed the construction of the Qena Regional Center and equipped it. The Center
has the capacity to train up to 800 trainees per day and accommodate 120 trainees.

(b)    Mubarak City at 6th October City

Mobarak City is a huge training center with the capacity to train and accommodate 5000 trainees
per day. The Project contributed $2.0 million to the construction of the Center. Project-related
training was carried out at this Center.

(ii)   Renovating the Existing Training Centers

The Project financed the renovation of two training cents ­ Fayoum (1999) and Gharbeya in



                                                - 30 -

2001, as well as providing furniture for the centers at Fayoum, Gharbeya, Assiut and Alenxandria.

(iii)  Installing Telephone Lines for New MOE EMIS and E-Government

During the last two years of the Project, the MOE implemented an advanced EMIS system which
integrates the data from the School level up to the Central level. The Project contributed in
implementing this new system by providing:

a.     320 ISDN telephone lines
b.     10000 telephone lines for schools
c.     1 PC for each of the 159 schools to be used with the system.

(iv)   Providing EMIS Training

Training was provided for those responsible for the new EMIS on the implementation and
applications.

(v)    Improving the Quality of Teaching

The Project improved the quality of teaching through reinforcing the in-service training system.
Face-to-face training programs began in 1998 but it was recommended to apply in-service
training. This type of training took a long time to implement as:

a.     specialists and consultants need to prepare training
b.     the training media (book; video cassette; video tapes) need to be determined
c.     training trainers to deliver the training
d.     pilot the application and correct the defects
e.     start the application.

For this goal, the Project depended on the specialists assigned to the Education Enhancement
Program ­ which is the second phase of the Project. The EEP also implements this training in 15
Governorates and the Project Basic Education Improvement Project completes this training in the
remaining 12 Governorates. The following training courses were provided.

1.     Computer Basics ­ for teachers responsible for teaching computer basics at the First
Grade of Primary and Preparatory levels (12 Governorates ­ 11,039 teachers)

2.     Effective Learning Methods ­ for class teachers (1-3 Primary):
i.     training materials (books; video cassettes and cassette tapes)
ii.    training trainers
iii.   school based training bi-weekly at the School level. This training took place in 12
Governorates for 1247 trainers, plus 28,638 teachers, for a total of 29,885 teachers and trainers.

3.     English Language training for Primary and Preparatory teachers. Training materials
(Books; Video and Cassette tapes). This training covered 27 Governorates for 21, 800 teachers.



                                                - 31 -

4.      Mathematics for Primary and Preparatory teachers. Training Materials (2 books for
Primary and 1 book for Preparatory with a Video Tape)

i.      Train tutors and inspectors
ii.     Training took place at the school level by the tutors. It was applied in 12 Governorates
for 15,000 teachers. Primary Level (199 tutors and 438 inspectors); Preparatory Level 22 tutors
and 310 inspectors).

5.      Science for Primary and Preparatory Teachers. Training material (2 books and Book
preparatory and a Video Tape) ­ same as applied for the Mathematics Training. It was carried
out in 12 Governorates for 2000 teachers ­ Primary Level (142 tutors and 392 inspectors) ­
Preparatory Level (230 tutors and 387 inspectors).

      6.        Use of technology in teaching for class teachers (Primary Level 1-3). The Project
                trained tutors and inspectors but the training of teachers could not be completed as
                the Project came to a close.

        Other Training Programs - The National Education Standards. The MOE has recently
produced the `National Education Standards' and asked to train the relevant individuals on these
standards. The Project financed the first phase for 9,500 trainees.

        ICDL Training. ICDL is the `International Computer Driving License'. MOE asked to
deliver this license to their computer specialists to be capable to deliver computer training to the
teachers.

Lessons Learned

1.      The link between the Bank and the implementation unit. The Resident Mission of the
Bank in Egypt facilitated the contact between the PIU and the Bank especially in procurement
procedures.

2.      Pre-financing to implement the PIU. This was the case for the Project when the UNDP
financed the implementation of the PIU and the Project financed the implementation of the PPMU
(the second phase of the Project).

3.      When the Project works with the Governorates there must be a mechanism to have units
to handle the implementation. The Bank regulation not to pay governmental employees
compensation for the time allocated the Project created a great problem.

(b)     Cofinanciers: UNDP

The UNDP has expressed its pride at having contributed to such a successful project with its
tangible achievements and, moreover, that it made such a valuable contribution to the successful
start up of this Project through its Grant of USD 700,000. UNDP has recommended that more



                                                 - 32 -

training be made available for schools in the area of technology so that they could have their own
technology specialists who can do simple repairs for PCs instead of waiting for specialists to come
from the central Ministry in Cairo, or even from the capital of the Governorate to do simple
repairs.

(c)     Other Partners

A seminar to discuss the Project's achievements and impact was sponsored by the Ministry of
Education and chaired by H.E. the Minister of Education and the World Bank's Country Director
on April 17, 2004. The event was attended by some thirty persons representing the MOE
implementing agencies involved in the Project and other MOE-related entities. In attendance
were representatives from the World Bank's education task team; the General Education Sector;
the Basic Education Central Administration; the Central Department for In-Service Training
(CDIST); the Technology Development Center (TDC); the Educational Computer Department;
the EMIS Department; the PIU; GAEB; NCEEE; the Finance Sector; the Planning Central
Administration; the Faculty of Education [two universities were represented]; the UNDP; and the
Governorate of Sohag.

Participants discussed the Project's successes and lessons learned. Specific lessons of experiences
mentioned were as follows:

1. To improve the use of internet, L.E. 1 pound is proposed to be added to student fees to cover
the cost of using the telephone lines (the Internet is for free in Egypt and the telephone cost is
only 50% of the regular price).

2. Evaluation should be an integral part of the MOE system and for all projects that receive
external funding. For example, an assessment of the Project-financed teacher training programs
was carried out by NCEEE at the end of the project and without a baseline.

3. A Policy Support Unit should be established as soon as possible, as part of the Strategic
Planning exercise, and should carryout data analysis for policy and decision making.

4. The Al Azhar schools should part of the EMIS. A policy decision at the highest level is
necessary to get the Al Azhar schools to be part of the overall educational statistics.

5. After adding Al Azhar, all the data should be stored with the MOE and made available for
eligible users from all the Governorates.

6. Schools should have teachers/staff who are trained to do the basic PC and Internet
maintenance.

7. Capacity development for the school-based training and evaluation units should be part of the
school improvement plan.

8. E-Learning should be expanded and ongoing World Bank education projects should take the



                                                - 33 -

lead in this regard.




                        - 34 -

- 35 -

