Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CiI~Z              ZI74 2Cz 7
Report No. 11489-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPtHLIC OF EGYPT
BASIC EDUCATION IHPROVI -ENT PROJECT
MARCH 5. 1993
1.1CWJF:!:LHE CuiH^y
w,;i-: r t N           t I I 483  E CT  T vt l   l
!3ile:    BAIC  PC-           IMPROk4LM17f IT PM~
'ut h cr-  'A4 I M4 N. M.
Population and Human Resources Divisiof
Country Department II
Niddle East and North Africa Region
This document has a resticted distribuon and may be used by recipients oDly in tbe perfornsme of
their offiefal duties Its contents May not otherwise be disclosed witout World Bon* a8thorati



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$1.00       =  LE 3.31 (December 31, 1992)
LE 1.00       =  US$0.31 (December 31, 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 km = 0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
CC1MD        Center for Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development
CDEPI        Central Directorate for Educational Planning and Information
CISD         Computer and Information Statistics Directorate
DOE          Directorate of Education
EMIS         Education Management Information System
ESF          Education Support Fund
GAEB         General Authority for Educational Buildings
GDAVM        General Directorate for Audiovisual Materials
GDIST        General Directorate for In-service Training
GES          General Education Sector
GTZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HCT          Higher Commission for Training
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IDP          Institutional Development Program
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LE           Egyptian Pound
MIC          Ministry of International Cooperation
MOE          Ministry of Education
MOP          Ministry of Planning
NCEEE        National Center for Examinations and Educational Evaluation
NCERD        National Center for Educational Research and Development
NIB          National Investment Bank
ODA          Overseas Development Agency (British)
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
RTC          Regional Training Center
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TCID         Technical Committee for Institutional Development
TOMOHAR  Training Agency of the Ministry of Reconstruction, New Cities and Ho
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Government of the Arab Republic of E%t
Jiscal Y1ea
July 1-June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECr
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORr
CONTENTS
haNo.
Cred and Poject Sary ...............................  .............................  v
I.    ECONOM I AND                              ..................... BAIRON 
II. THE BASIC EDUCATE                        .Q ..M                               3
A. Strengthening Educadonal Management ............................         3
B. Improving Educational Effectiveness.                                     4
Enhancing the Leaing Environmnt.                                     4
Improving the Preparation and Motivation of Teachers   .5
C. improving Equitable Access.                                              7
coverage of the System.                                              7
Increasing Physical Capacity ...................,.,.,. ..........    8
D. Strghening Fmancial Support for Basic Education.                         9
School Maintenance Fmancing .10
B. Previous and Curren Initatives .10
F. Lessons Learned ............                                            11
G. Goverment Strategy and Dialogue widt IDA .............. .......................   12
m.          PROJECT ............................................................  14
A. Project Objecdves ............................................................  14
19iAws uptf.  P_8-.k                                              m192Ma
papulmlmllra M. [amdoCo__.am- Ia hs t l eftEpesasadk Ga Gbiah al_     rhspqWh.td'h awat 
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without Word Bank authodation.



-ii-
Coatents (cont'd)
B. Project Conmponents ............ ..........................................    14
School Construction and Maintenance   .........................................   14
Ini-Service Teacher Training .....................................................    18
Institutional Dvelopvneontp                m ......................................................    20
Relafed lPolicy-Orientfd Studies .................................................   24
IV. It013CT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGE;lEN  AND D9             LEHMffA=           25
A. Pnroject Costs ..........................................................................  25
Basis of Cost Estmates      .................................................  26
Contingency Allowances .................................................   27
Foreign Exdhange Component .................................................    27
Custom Duties and Taxes ...............                           27
Increniental Recurrent Costs.                                     27
B. IProject Fluancing             . . .27
C. Project Management and Im.pleentat.ion.                 .             28
Project Ipleentation Unit          . . .28
D. Procurement and Disbursement           . . .29
Procurement .29
Disbursement .32
E. Monitoring and Supervision .33
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting    ..                            33
Supervision   ..                                                  33
Anmual Review and Sector Policy Dialogue .                        33
Mid-term Review and Evaluation    ..                              33
Project Conmpletion Report. .                                     34
V. ABN]i AND RISS    ...35
A. Bf.e.its                 ...35
B. Risks...                                                              35
C. Environmental Inpact...                                               36
VL    ATIONS TO B.E A GlR3EED) AMS         { REM=    ......................   37



- iii -
CONTENTIS (cot'd)
ANNEXES
1  -  Expeed Cost and Cash Disbursemt to Cover Earthquake Damages
2  -  Related Policy-Oriented Studies: Tem  of Reference
2a -  Implemention Plan
3 - Lessons Learned from the USAID iDasic Education Project
4 - School Construction & Maintenance Component
4a - Inplementation Plan
4b - School Sites Donated for Phase I School Construction Program by Govemorate
5 - In-Service Teacher Training Component
5a - Implementation Plan
Sb - Monitoring & Assessment of the Teacher Training Component
Sc - Organizational Structure for ITT
6 - Institutional Development in Management, Information & Planning Component
6a - MOE Organizational Structure
6b - Key Component Monitoring & Evaluation Indicators
6c - Monitoring & Assessment of the Inst'l. Devt. Component
6d - Technical Committee on Institutional Development
6e - Short-term Training Requirements for Institutional Development in Centra &
Mudiriya Levels
Summary & Costing of Training Requirements
6f - EMIS Requirement for Computing Hardware/Software
(Foreign & Local Costs)
6g - Measure, Timetable and Output
6h - Implementation Plan
7 - Disbursement Schedule
8 - IDA Supervision Schedule
9 - Project Management Flowhart
10 - List of Documents in the Project File
STATISTICAL CHARTS
1 - Enrollment in Primary Stage (1981-91)
2 - Enrollment in Preparatory Stage (1981-91)
3 - Enrollment in Teacher Training (1981-91)
4 -  Number of Schools by Stage: Primary, Praratory, Total Secondary
5 - Number of Students by Gender in Primary (88/89-90/91)
6 - Number of Students by Gender in Preparatory (88/89-90/91)
7 - Number of Students by Gender in Teacher Training Stage (88/89-90/91)
8 - Public School Students by Periods In Primary (1990/91)
9 - Public School Students by Periods in Preparalty Stages (1990/91)
10 -  Percentage Enrolhnent Girls in Primary Stage (1990191)
11 -  Percentage Enrollment Girls in Preparatory Stage (1990/91)
12 -  Percentage of Stdents Female by Stage: Prhnary, Prepatory & Total Secondary
(88/89-90/91)



- iv -
CONTENTS (cont'd)
SrATISTICAL CHARTS
13 - Distribution of Students According to Gender & Grade in Primary, Preparatory &
Teacher Training Stages (88/89-90191)
14 - Distribution of Schools & Students by Shifts in Primary (1990191)
15 - Distribution of Schools & Students by Shifts in Preparatory (1990/91)
16 - Pupil/Class Ratio in Primary Stage (1990191)
17 - Pupil/Class Ratio in Preparatory Stage (1990/91)
18 - Percentage Enrollment Girls in Total Secondary Stage (1990/1991)
19 - Distribution of Teaching Staff According to Gender & Qualification in Primary
(90191)
20 - Distribution of Teaching Staff According to Gender & Qualification in Preparatory
(90191)
Map: IERD 24599



v -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BASIC EDUCATION IMROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Arab Republic of Egypt
Benefidary:     The Ministry of Education (MOE)
Credit Amount:  SDR 40 million (US$54.3 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.
Project
Description:    The project would assist the long process of improving access to and
increasing the quality and efficiency of the basic education system, and would
consist of the following components: (i) Institutional l)evelopment (Ia
Which would contribute, through technical assistance, training, equipment and
civil works, to the establishment within the MOE the capacity to collect,
process and analyze performance data for the sector, and to the strengthening
of its managerial capacity to make rational policy decisions and allocate
resources efficiently based on that analysis. In particular, a management
training program and a comprehensive educational management information
system (EMIS) would be developed and used to address deficiencies in
planning, management and policy analysis at the central and local levels in
addition to the renovation of MIS facilities; (ii) In-Service Teacher Training
which would focus on developing new training methods and enhancing
MOE's capacity to upgrade the skills and teaching practices of existing
teacdhrs as a step towards enhancing instructional quality. In particular, the
component would help establish the capability within MOE to design,
produce and effectively use high quality teacher training materials. Toward
this end, civil works, technical assistance and training would be financed (a)
to upgrade MOE's central materials production unit, (b) to produce prototype
training modules, (c) to expand and improve the delivery of teacher training
at the regional level, including construction of a regional training center
(RTC) in Qena and upgrading of the six other RTCs, and (d) to develop and
introduce a pilot distance education program; (iii) School Construction and
Rabilitation which would, within the framework of the Govermnent's
ongoing enrollment expansion program, support (a) the construction and
equipping of approximately 130 primary and 110 preparatory schools in 7
target governorates, (b) the establishment of a maintenance program for
schools, including training for about 350 supervisors and technicians, and (c)
equipment and technical assistance for the MOE agencies responsible for



I-vi I
planning mad supervising tde construction work. Crteria for the selection of
sites favor underserved areas and segme  of fte population, especially girls;
and (lv) Relaled EolIyriend Studies which would closely coordinate with
e *Human Development and Sustainable Growth- study and fte "Public
Sector Invesament Review" cuaetly being prepared by IDA. The studies
envisaged would further assist in providing clear guidance to the Government,
on policy, structural and reglatory measures related to two topics of high
prioriy: (i) teacher prepara" Jn policies and programs, including the
structre, operation and effectivenes! of both tie in-service training systems,
and (ii) the identification of addidonal means of mobilizing public and private
sector resources to fiance basic education.
Benei:           vssuming a minimum lifedme of a school constructed under the project to be
25 years, it is estimated that more than 400,000 basic-level chldren would
benefit directly from the construction of new schools in the target
governates during the schools' lifetimes. Moreover, during the project
lifetime an additional 500,000 children in those govemorates would benefit
from improvements in their school environments (i.e., facilities, equipment,
and class sizes and duration) and from the positive impact those
improvements would have on instuctional qualit, as nultiple shifts are
reduced and as a systematic preventive maintenance program is put in place
(which could also significantly extend the lifetimes of schools beyond the 25-
year esimate). By targeting previously underserved segments of the
population, such as girls and poor children, some of which are expected to be
principal beneficiaries of the expanded capacity and improved quality of the
system. In addition, the quality of instruction should improve nationwide as
eachers are provided with better methods of presendng the curricula
(through new training modules developed by MOE using institutional
capabilities that would be strengthened under the project). Although the
enlhanced capability would be utilized in training teachers in various subjects,
it is esfimated that about 70 leaders (trainers of trainers), 3800 teacher
trainers and 120,000 teachers would be trained in science, mathematics or
English during the lifetme of the project. Combined, these improvements in
the availability and quality of basic education should also encourage many
potenti dropouts to remain in school, thereby combatting one of the primary
causes of illiteracy. Other benefit would include: (i) the consolidation of
MOE's instituional capacity, including its informaion, planning and policy
analysis capabilities, so as to enable its management to make decisions and
allocate resources in a more rational manner; and (ii) the conversion of
current ad hoc attempts to mobilize resources for school rehabilitation and
mainaDnce into a systematc program.
Ridus:          The main risk expected relates to project implementation delays caused by
bureacratic procedures within the MOE. To reduce this risk, a national
counterpart team and a project implementation unit has been established along
with a technical secreaiat to oversee the effective and efficient execution of
project activiies. Another risk identified relates to MOE's distorted
incentive structure (resulting from the low salary scales and limted career
mobility) which could make it difficult to retain MOE staff who are trained



- v"'-
under the project To address this rik, the project wowd provide salary
suppl_em  to key MOE and P1U staff Involved in project mplmn n as
a stop-gap measure uil the issuance of a civil service reform package which
is to be addressed in a fuur structr adjusment progran. A 1982
Presideal Decree which allows govenent employees working with
intenational donors to recive salary slements in excess of tv normal
civi service wage scale will facilitate ftis plan.
Projet Costs:
Lm Foreign           1
-    -(US$ million)
A.   Insonal Development                                 1.3       2.3       3.6
B.   Project M      _agement                             0.7       0.0       0.7
C.   In-Service Teacher Training                         6.1       4.5      10.5
D.   School Construction & Mantace                      29.8      13.6      43.4
E.   Policy Studies                                      0.1       0.0       0.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    3Q        2L
Physical Contingencies                                 3.6       1.9       5.5
Price ContIngencies                                    7.8       2.2       10.0
J1L4       4.1      ILI
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                     49_4      2fA
Now Tha   ai soup tuo I. rmiaiug.
Financing Plan: IDA                                     33.2      22.3      55.5
Government                              li         .218
Total                                   42A       2441
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
FY94 FY95  FY96  FY97 FY98 FY99  FY00  FY01  FY02
-----$s$ million)
Amuad       2.0   8.2  13.2  12.8  11.2   6.0   0.8   0.8   0.5
Cunmuative   2.0  10.2  23.4  36.2  47.4  53.4  54.2  55.0  55.5
Eoonomic Rat
of Return:    Not applicable



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEM EN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND
1.01         In 1990, the Arab Republic of Egypt embarked on an economic reform program
consisting of macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment programs supported by an
International Monetary Fund (IMF) Standby Arrangement and an International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) Structural Adjustment Loan, respectively. Additional
support from the international community, including debt relief from the Paris Club and other
creditors, and significant new financing pledged at a Consultative Group meeting, have also
helped to soften the adverse impacts of the adjustment program.
1.02         The principal objectives of the reforms are to promote sustainable economic
growth, improve efficiency in resource mobilization and allocation, encourage greater private
sector involvement in the economy, and elevate the overall standard of living. Accompanying
these reforms are modifications in social policies to minimize the adverse effects of the reform
program on the poor. The International Development Association (IDA) Social Fund Project
(Credit 2276-EGI), approved on June 21, 1991, is an integral part of that approach.
Furthermore, in support of these objectives, the Government and IDA reached a consensus
during recent policy discussions on the importance of strengthening the human resource base of
the country as a means of sustaining the benefits achieved by the adjustment program, as well as
of reducing poverty, unemployment and high rates of population and urban growth.' The
Government and IDA are presently working together to develop a comprehenwive human
resources development strategy that would address these and other social and economic concerns.
1.03         In addition to primary school-age children, two groups in particular would benefit
from improvements in the human resource base: women and the poor. Notably, improvements in
educational access and quality for these groups, especially at the basic level (grades 1-8), would
influence poverty, population growth and socioeconomic development by: (i) expanding earning
opportunities, thereby enhancing economic standing and delaying marriage and child bearing; (ii)
heightening awareness of good nutrition, health and sanitation practices; and (iii) providing role
models for future generations.
1.04         Furthermore, while urban and rural poverty declined during the 1970s and early
1980s, many studies have documented its persistence since then, with the most recent figures
1/    During the 1980s, the population grwth rate averaged more than 2.5 percent per year. Recent IDA estimats suggest
that the rate has deceined somewhat to about 2.0 percent per year. In addition, the population of about 55 millon
inhabitants only about 4 pement of the country's land area, and urbanization (47 percent in 1990) is expected to rise
to nearly 64 percent by the year 2000. Among other thigs, thcse factors restict socioecononmc development by (O
compounding demands for housing and pub'c services, such as education and heal care, thereby spreading resources
more thinly; and (ii) straining the capacity of the economy to create jobs fast enough to accommodate those entering
the nonagriculu  employment marcet.



-2 -
indicating ths poor households represent 20-25 perent of the population.2 Poverty is most
widespread In rural areas, and is most closely associated with unemployed workers and Illiterates.
Women and children are among the most vu:nerable groups. Often, children from poor families
are exposed to difficult living conditions (e.g., malnutrWion and lack of protecton fom
preventable diseases), have limited or no access to school, and enter the work force at a young
age. As a result, many of these children grow up Illiterate, a conditon at perpetuates poverty
by reducing opporunities for highly productive employment.
2/    The povety line is edmaxed at Le 832 for urban areas and LU 680 for rual areas. Ghatas' estit (World Bank,
1989) quoted in World Bank (July 1991) Pove  ion and Adiw in EevDt Report No. 85151SGT.



-3 -
I. THE BASIC EDUCATION SYSTEM
2.01         An essential prerequisite for the successful implemenation of the human resources
development strategy mentioned in para. 1.02 is the improvement and expansion of the basic
education system (compriing priay grades 1-5 and preparatory grades 6-8). The   portance
attached to basic education sms from the crucial roles It plays in developing fundmenal skills,
such  literacy and numeracy, and in preparing children for more advanced levels of education,
both of which are necessary for the condnued socioeconomic development of the country. A
critical step tward ths end has already been taken by the Ministry of Education (MOE) d%rough
a series of reforms aimed at improving the quality, availability and efficiency of the education
system. The primary objective of this reform program, which began in 1987 and has received
support from the US Agency for Intenational Development (USAID), the British Overseas
Development Agency (ODA), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and other donors,
has been the expansion of the basic education system to provide universal access at that level.
Signiftcant emphasis has also been placed on improving MOE's institutional information and
planning capabilities, and on developing new curricula and teaching methods for the classrooms.
In 1988 the prinary level was consolidated from six to five grades, which resulted in a drop in
primary school enrollments and an increase in secondary school enollments due to the
preparatory existence of a double cohort (see Statistical Charts 1-3).
2.02        Despite progress at all educational levels, and especially at the basic level, in the
number of schools (Statistical Chart 4) and in the quality and retevance of some curricula
subjects, the educational reform progran has not fully achieved its objectives. Notably, the
following problems persist: (i) MOE's limited instittional and mnagerial capabilities, as typified
by its bureaucracy, weak administrative skills and lack of coordination among administrative
units; (ii) low educational effectiveness resulting from low teacher quality and morale, limited
and often inadequate instructional materials, and incomplete implemeation of curricula changes;
(Wii) inequitable access to education, particularly for girls and poor children; Civ) inadequate and
inequitable resource mobilization efforts; and (v) an inadequate policy and regulatory framework
to encourage private sector contributions to the fmancing and provision of basic education.
A. Strengthening Educational Mnagement
2.03         Perhaps the single most importa  obstacle facing the education sector is MOE's
weak institutional capacity, which limits its ability to assess and manage the education sector and
to allocate resources equitably according to priorities that seek to maximize the effectiveness of
the system in improving the skill and productivity base of the labor force.
2.04        Over the past four years, USAID has worked with the Central Directorate for
Educational Plannmig and Information (CDEPI) withn MOE in an attempt to develop some of
these capacities, and has progressed in building a preliminary data base of educational
information and statistic, and in training a core cadre of staff at the central and governorate
levels capable of performing basic tasks such as collecting and processing information, preparing
statistical reports, and conducting simple analytical research. Apart from these areas of progress,
however, the Ministry's capacity to enact policies and allocate resources based on accurate
information, detailed analysis and rational planning remains very limited. Critical issues in
developing this capacity include the following:



-4 -
(a)   limited managerial and technical capacitY in MOE, at the central and governorate
levels, which limits Its ability to exercise effectively its analysis and planning
functions;
(b)   the absence of timely, reliable Information about the sector, which impairs
national policy analysis and formulation;
(c)   the overcentralization of the analysis and planning functions; and
(d)   the fragmentation, isolation and occasional duplication of plaming functions
performed by CDEPI and other MOE directorates at the central level.
In light of the anticipated completion of USAID's financial and technical assistance to the sector
in mid-1994, a substantial need therefore exists for continued and expanded assistance to MOE to
sustain the process of raising its Institutional capacity to an acceptable level, and to reduce the
incidence and impact of the problems listed above.
B. Improving Educational Effectiveness
2.05        The education sector has been overburdened by rapid population growth over the
past 20 years (para. 2.01). Attempts to accommodate increases in the number of students have
absorbed most of the sector's resources. In particular, the basic education system has borne the
greatest physical and financial burdens of population growth, as escalating enrollments have
resulted in overcrowded classrooms, double shifts and a reduction of per-student Government
allocations. In addition, the emphasis placed on the rapid expansion of school coverage,
especially in recent years, overlooked the importance of adequately maintaining existing school
facilities, improving the content and delivery of the curricula, and upgrading teacher skills. As a
result, the system experienced a decline in educational quality and effectiveness during that
period.
2.06        More specifically, the system has been overburdened by (i) curricula that are not
well integrated within grades, nor senuenced effectively across grades; and (ii) inappropriate links
among teacher training, curricula content and student testing, that contribute to poor achievement,
high repetition and dropout rates, and unnecessarily low inefficiency and high costs. Although
improvements have been made recently in the curricula and student testing systems as part of te
ongoing reform effort, much more needs to be done to enhance the leaming environment and to
improve the preparation and motivation of teachers, especially if outdated teaching methods are to
be replaced by modern theories and practices.
Enhancing the Learning Environment
2.07         Prior to the 1988-89 school year, students encountered a curriculum in need of
reform. Ihe syllabus did not encourage creativity nor was it responsive to the technological and
economic needs of the country. Most subjects emphasized memorization over problem solving,
with litle tine for actiwve student participation. As such, the curriculum was more suited to
transmitting knowledge than to challenging students to think critically.



- -
2.08        As part of MOE's reform program, three new semiautonomous agencies were
established by ministerial decrees in 1990 and 1991 to help direct improvements in these areas.
The frs of these agencies, the Center for Curriculum and  tuctional Materials Development
(CCIMD), has completed the development of a full range of new curricula. Its first product, a
new subject termed 'environmental studies', combines science, home economics, agriculture and
social studies to show children how these subjects relate to their lives; it was introduced into
grades 1-3 nationwide for the 1991-92 school year. Preliminary indications are that this new
subject is being adequately utilized by teachers and students. In addition, new textbooks for
mathematics, science, Arabic, religion, art and physical education were field-tested earlier this
year and are expected to be introduced gradually nationwide in grades 1-5 for the 1992-93 and
1993-94 school years. Other instructional materials are being evaluated and revised and will be
introduced during the 1992-93 school year. Topics such as population studies, environmental
protection and even tourism are being integrated into the new curriculum, with emphasis placed
on developing children's abilities to observe, compare, analyze and predict.
2.09        Concurrently, changes are being introduced by the National Center for
Examinations and Educational Evaluation (NCEEE), with ODA assistance, in the area of testing
and evaluation, including the revision of national achievement tests to include questions that
measure a student's reasoning and critical thinking abilities. Furthermore, semiannual exams are
being devised to improve the validity of the test results, and to reduce the importance of the end-
of-year and end-of-cycle examinations.
2.10        Finally, the National Center for Educational Research and Development (NCERD)
is providing technical support to CCIMD and NCEEE, particularly for the improvement of
pedagogical methods and in the development of new examination questions, while also bolstering
the research efforts of CDEPI's in-house research departnent.
Improving the Preparation and Motivation of Teachers
2.11        Teacher Preparation. Despite the advances being made in the area of curriculum
development, the effective transmittal of these curricula to students is presently limted by an
oversupply of inadequately trained teachers and a severe shortage of adequately trained and
skilled teachers (see Statistical Charts 19 and 20). Most primary school teachers are graduates of
Teachers' nstitutes, and thus have only the equivalent of a secondary diploma or a two-year
postsecondary diploma. In fact, most primary school teachers (about 147,000 out of 253,000)
had only the equivalent of a secondary diploma in 1990-91.
2.12        Recognizing the need to upgrade teacher quality and reduce the oversupply of
inadequately trained teachers, MOE decided in 1988 to elevate the preservice requimnt for
basic-level teaching to a university degree, and to phase out the Teachers' Institutes by 1993.
Many of the phased-out Teachers' Institutes have been transformed into specialized colleges of
education to train, at the university level, teachers of art, music, physical education, home
economics and educational technology. To date, the effectiveness of this change in preservice
education requirements has not been assessed.
2.13        Nevertheless, of more immediate concern are the teachers who are already in the
system. The combination of inadequat preservice training, the introduction of new curricula,
and the Government's former policy of guaranteed employment for all university graduates



- 6-
(regardless of academic perfornance or field of study),3 resulted in a cadre of teachers that is
now largely Incapable of effectvely tamitting te curricula to stden. These teachers would
benefit from appropriate and well-coordinated in-service traing, which the current system is ill-
prepared to provide.
2.14         In additon, the supply of teachers exceeds the capacity of the basic education
system to use them effectively. Although virtually all teachers are assigned to teach in schools,
often there are not enough classes for them and, as a result, many teachers are assigned a light
teaching load or perform only insignificant adminirive functions in schools. Also, the low
salaries paid to teachers contribute to the low performance of te teaching cadre, and often
compel many of the most capable to find other more lucrative jobs, notably in the private sector
or in other countries in the region.
2.15         Moreover, despite the lack of available Epace for a large number of teachers, the
reluctance of many to tch in rural areas has created imbalancs in the distribution of teachers
and caused severe shortages in a few rural regions. This phenomenon contibutes to disparities
between urban and rural areas by increasing the rural student-teacher ratio and further reducing
the effectiveness of rural instructors, many of whom are already among the least capable.
2.16         MOE's responsibility for in-service teacher taining is extended through its
General Direcorate for In-Service Training (GDIS1) and six Regional Training Centers (RTCs).
Training is usually charactized by excessive lecturing and is perforned mainly by teacher
supervisors or inspectors and university faculty who are specially recruited (and compensated) for
such assignents. Few of the trainers have themselves had adequate traing.
2.17         The main issues related to in-service teacher training are the absence of an overall
Goverment strategy to develop and coordinate trairnig programs, and the inadequacy of existng
programs. More specifically, these issues include the following:
(a)   the need to streamline and coordinae the several agencies hat are designing and
implementng in-service teacher training programs, particularly GDIST, CCIMD,
NCEEE, RTCs, and governorate- nd local-level teacher training offices, to
produce integrated training programs;
(b)   the need to allow adequate time for large-scale training of teachers before
introducing new curricula into the system;
(c)   the scarcity of budgetary resources, adequate teacher trainers and training modules
and materials;
(d)   iade         training facilities at GDIST and the RTCs, including limited access to
such facilities in Upper Egypt; and
(e)   the absence of competition with the private sector in the production of training
modules and in the implementation of training programs provides little incentive
for GDIST and CCIMD to increase the efficiency and qualiy of their output.
2/   Aho  not cancled, this policy is no longer in priooe.



2.18         Teacher Motivation. Basic education teacher salaries are linhed to the civil
service pay scale and ranged In 1991-92 from LE 70-240 per month in public schools, depending
upon length of sevce and subJects and grades taught. Teachers are rarely dismissed, and salary
increases and promotions are based on seniority rather than performance. Raises are limited to
no more than 5 percent per increase, although in July 1992, additional across-the-board increases
were given to all teachers to help offset the impact of inflatlon. Nevertheless, given the rapid
increase in the cost of living over the past decade, most salaries in 1991-92 are lower in real
terms than ten years ago.
2.19         Private tutoring has emerged as a partial supplement to teachers' salaries, and has
become an integral part of the educational process. This creates a paradoxical sitaion:
education is officiaUy free,4 yet teachers are "employed" in the evenings by parents to ensure
that their children pass their exams. While the Government sanctions a minimal amount of
private lessons on school property during the day, teachers are able to increase theLr incomes
significantly more by tutoring in the evenings. The practice varies widely and includes individual
and group utoring, both throughout the school year and just during examination periods. The
most commonly tutored subjects are nmathnatics, science, and English. The rates charged by
teachers are often determined by the ability to pay, with some teachers receiving as much as LE
30 per hour to tutor children from well-to-do families. Also, some teachers exert minimal efforts
in the classroom, while others give their pupils low grades, in order to generate private lessons.
2.20         Despite the abuses of the practice, private tutoring points to widespread resource
mobilizaton outside the budget. Moreover, it has provided a means by which teachers can
effectively lengthen the school day for students receiving tutoring, particularly for students in
multishift schools who have only 34 hours of class time per day. Often, evening lessons are the
only way a teacher can cover the full amount of materil that is required, owing to the
abbreviaged class time and overcrowded classrooms during the school day. On balance, though,
this practice reinforces the educational inequities that already exist between the segments of the
population that can afford tutoring and those that cannot, and thus it should be modified or
replaced by measures that would ensure the livelihood of teachers, while also proteting the
quality of and access to basic education for the poor and disadvantaged. The current attempt to
address the problem tirough periodic across-the-board salary increases for teachers is only a
stop-gap measure: although it represents a step in the right direction, it cannot solve the
underlying problem, which, while beyond the scope of this project, will be addressed in the study
of the forthcoming civil service.
C. Improving Equitable Access
Coverage of the System
2.21         Despite rapid population growth, the Govermnent has been able to increase the
span of the education system. Official statistics indicate that enrollment of primary school-age
children increased from 83 percent of the cohort in 1981 to more than 90 percent in 1991-92
(Chart 1). However, awing to persistent flaws in the methods used to record and collect
enrolbnent data, these figures are inflated. Many children are registered in schools and counted
41       AJUtough sohool Abem averagng LE 30-40 per student vie introdud in 1991-92.



-8-
in official statistics, but do not actually attend school. A better estimate of current primary
school enrollment would be about 80 percent of the corresponding age cohort, while preparatory
school enrollment represents less than 70 percent of its age cohort.
2.22         During the 1991-92 school year, there were 6.4 million students reportedly
enrolled in public primary schools and 3.5 million students in preparatory schools nationwide.
These enrollment levels represent a total increase of 1.9 million students since 1984-85, at an
average annual rate of 3.3 percent (1.1 percent per year at the primary stage and 7.9 percent at
the preparatory stage), i.e., higher than the population growth rate (para. 2.01). However, at the
same time, the dropout rate increased slightly to nearly 15 percent of an age cohort by the end of
the primary stage (i.e., for every 100 who start first grade, 85 complete the primary stage), with
an additional 10-15 percent leaving school by the end of the preparatory stage.
2.23         As noted earlier, access to schools is unequal in terms of geographic location,
economic standing and sex. For example, enrollment of girls in some rural areas often does not
exceed 35 percent of an age cohort, owing to cultural values that restrict girls' abilities to attend
mixed-gender schools or schools more than a short walking distance from their homes (Charts 5-
7). Likewise, children of poor families are less likely to enroll in school and are more apt to
drop out than are children of more affluent families, particularly as the direct and indirect costs
of education (including private tutoring) have escalated.
2.24         These factors have contributed to the country's continued high rate of illiteracy.
Despite substantial increases in enrollment over the past decade, the illiteracy rate for persons 15
or older has remained relatively constant at about 52 percent (approximately 37 percent for males
and 66 percent for females), suggesting that the illiteracy rate among those aged 15-25, who have
benefitted from greater educational opportunities during their lifetimes, is not markedly different
from that of their elders. More than half of all illiterates, especially in rural areas, left school
during the primary stage (or never enrolled at all) for social and economic reasons, while
another 5-10 percent left school because they did not comprehend the relevance of the subjects
being taught. Also, many dropouts are dependents of adults who have emigrated to other
countries to find employment, suggesting a high opportnity cost of school for those children,
who may support their families in the absence of a parent. A newly established national board to
promote functional literacy, assistance by many donors, is implementing nationwide programs.
Inesing Physical Capacity
2.25         The facilities and conditions of the 15,100 primary and 5,600 preparatory schools
in the public education system vary widely throughout the country, ranging from nearly 1,000
older schools in rural areas built using crude designs and materials (often one- and two-room
mud brick constructions), to more than 3,600 schools (encompassing more an 46,000
classrooms) constructed in the last decade using more modern designs and materials.
Nevertheless, many public schools remain severely overcrowded, particularly in urban areas
where many schools hold two and sometimes three shifts of students per day (Charts 8-9).S
Often classrooms do not have enough chairs or desks for students and suffer physical degradation
from overcrowding, multiple shifts and, most importantly, irregular maintenance. It is estimated
that to keep pace with population growth over the next five years, nearly 2,400 new schools
(with an average of about 10 classrooms per school) will be needed, while an additional 2,000
schools will be needed to replace existing, dilapidated schools. A firther 5,200 schools will be
S/        Mm average lm siz is 43 studenu, although in many ubn aeas chasses can toal as many as 75 students.



-9 -
needed to eliminate multiple shifts in existing schools. In addition, the October 1992 earthquake
compounded these problems by destroying nearly 1,300 schools and severely damaging more
than 2,500 schools (the financial impact of the earthquake is provided in Annex 1).
2.26         The shortening of the basic education stage in 1989 from nine to eight years, has
relieved some of the erollment pressure on schools by reducing class sizes at the primary stage.
However, this relief will be short-lived, as population growth is expected to increase primay
school enrollments to their earlier levels within three to four years.
D. Strengthening Financial Support for Basic Education6
2.27         In the First Five-Year Plan, the share of education in the total investment of the
public sector was 3.3 percent. It has risen to 3.6 percent under the Second Five-Year Plan
(PY88-FY93) and will rise to 9.9 percent under the Third Five-Year Plan (FY93-FY97).
Though the education sector has claimed an increasing share of the Government's budget over the
last decade, this increase has occurred largely to cover recurrent expenditures that have risen
rapidly as a consequence of the significant expansion of the system's coverage. In the Third
Five-Year Plan, LE 2.6 billion has been allocated to basic education, representing 5.3 percent of
total public sector investment. Nevertheless, at the same time, real per student recurrent
spending on items other than teachers' salaries in basic education was falling from LE 7.1 in
1981 to LE 2.4 in 1989/90. The percentage of MOE's recurrent budget spent on teacher salaries
increased from 69 to 75 percent.
2.28         Over and above these budgetary resources, the basic education system also relies
on a schedule of annual student fees/contributions averaging LE 30-40 per student. Combined
with the costs of school supplies, transportation and private tutoring, and the opportunity costs of
foregone household labor or earned income, these expenses can be a crucial barrier to education
for students from poor families, and particularly girls, for whom education is often considered to
be of lower priority to families, particularly in rural areas.
2.29         Fmally, although the ongoing economic reform program is expected gradually to
result in a fical environment more favorable to the needs of the basic education system, the
reforms will take time to bear fruit and to generate an adequate and sustainable level of funding
for the system. In the meantime, continued Government commitment, a rationalizing of its
expenditures, and external aid will all be needed to sustain MOE's efforts to improve the
coverage and quality of basic education. Furthermore, to capitalize on the economic and
education reform processes, policy options that maximize the potential for significant increases in
resource mobilizadon and in the efficiency of resource use need to be examined. Important
options to be considered would include the following: (i) extending greater freedom and incentive
to the private sector to increase its involvement in providing basic educaton to segments of the
population Ihat possess the capacity to pay for schooling; (ii) involving rural communities in the
construction and maintenance of school buildings; (iii) increasing cost recovery on an ability-to-
pay basis; and (iv) inating community support for teacher salaries. These and other means of
improving education financing are proposed to be studied under this project (para. 3.28 and
Annex 2).
di        Sowrce: Clpter X, of Egypt Public Scczur Investment Review (Green Cover), para. 10.20 on Financing
of Education and Annex Tables 10.1-10.2.



- 10-
Schol Maieance F na g
2.30        Before 1990, the Government allocated LE 10 million per year for maintenance of
all school buildins, an entirely insufficient amount. As one consequence of the dialogue leading
up to and attending the preparation of this project, the Government's commitment to maitnance
has changed sgnificantly, and in FY92 approximately LE 170 million was spent on school
maintenace, an amount almost equivalent to the combined expenditues of the previous twenty
years. 'he General Authority for Educational Buildings (GAEB) has assumed the responsibility
for maintenance since mid-1991.
2.31        The Government institutionalized the maintenance process in FY92 by:
(a)   establishing the Education Support Fund (ESF) to support acdvities crucial to the
education process, such as maance; and
(b)   collecting yearly maintenance fees from students, as follows:
LE 3 from eah Prim   stage student
-     LE 4 from each Preparatory stage stdent
-     LE 5 from each Secondary stage student
Ihe amount collected from fees is approximately LE 100 million per year, while
the amount collected from the ESF is almost LE 20 million per year. Half of all
fees go to GAEB, while the other half stays with the city councils collecting the
fees to be used for school maintenance. In order to generate more revenue, some
governorates and city councils have increased their maintenance fees substantially.
For example, Qaiubeya governorate doubled its maintenace fees to generate an
additional LE 3 million.
2.32        Under the Third Five-Year Plan (FY93-FY97), an additional LE 100 million will
be allocated by the central government annually for school mainnce. This amount is
transferred to GAEB, which distributes it to the governorates. Final distribution of maintenance
resources takes place in a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister and attended by the Minister of
Education, the Minister of Planning, and all 27 governors. In addition to the LE 100 million,
more funds are expected to be allocated for repairs and maintenance as a result of the October
1992 earthquake.
E. Previous and Current Initiatives
2.33        Egypt has benefitted in recent years from significant financdal and thical
support for the education sector from several countries and inernational organizations, including
the Bank. Support from the United States has been particularly strong, as USAID has provided
more than US$425 million for the education sector since 1975. Notably, USAID's Basic
Education Program, which began in 1981, is expected to have provided more than US$190
million to the system by e time it i completed in mid-1994. The major accomplishment of
that program include the following: (i) the consuction of more than 1,950 schools, princlly
in undersved rual areas; (ii) the development and provision of instructional materials and
equpment for almost all the 15,100 basic education schools; (il) the estlishment within CDEPI



- 11 -
of a preliminay education data bae and a core rup of personnel able to collect, proes and
extract information from it; and (iv) significant mo dniatin of parts of the curriculum. Donors
support for recument budg  has been minimal.
2.34        To date, the Bank's involvemen In Egypt's educadon sector has been limited to
six vocatlonaltechnical education projec  (totaing US$105.1 milion equivalent in IDA  redts
and US$87.8 million in IBRD loas). She Its gaduation from IDA in 1982, Egypt has been
relucta  to accept Bank financing for any educadon projecs outside of vocational/teclnical
education on the grounds that borrowing costs wre too high. As a result of its reent drop in
per capita income and subsequet eligibility for limited IDA fuids, Egypt has indicated Its
willingness to increa  its conces,lonal borrwing from the Bank for othr types of projects.
Furthermore, coinciding with the Bank's overall human resources development strategy for Egpt
and the Bank's  cent emphasis on basic education as a critical presor to susinable economic
and human development, the Goverment has demonstrated a hightned recognition of both Ihe
cross-sectoral nature of educational issues and the need for increased financial and technical
assistance to address those issues.
2.35        Other international agencies, including UNICEF, GTZ, UNESCO, UNDP and the
Ford Foundation, have engaged in a variety of small, gmsroots programs to promote literacy
mong youths and adults who either dropped out of school or never erolled. At present, these
groups are coordiatng their efforts with UNDP in an overall litacy stategy that is being
developed. In addition, ODA is assisting the NCEEE in improving national tesdng and
evaluation standards and practices, while UNICEF is beginning a pilot project aimed at delivering
education services to isolated rural villages in Assiut sovenorate using, inter alia, exs
community buildings such as mosques and meeting halls.
2.36        Finally, UNDP is funding a secretart of policy and technical advisors in the
office of the Minister of Education that would help to interpret education data and to allocate
resources and formulate policies accordingly (para. 4.11). In addition, within the framework of a
UNDP preparatory assistance program for human resources development, UNDP has agreed to
allocate a US$700,000 equivalent grat as a finacing for a number of importat activities before
the proposed IDA credit becomes effective, including: (i) a series of experts in inutional
development, in-service teah  training, and school mantnce; and (i) the core Wam of full-
ime IDA project implemenion unit staff.
F. Lessos Larned
2.37        The principal lesso  learned have come from USAID's B9aic Education Progm
(Annex 3). Notably, (i) experience gained through its school construction program emphasizes
the need for a coordinated mainn ce plan to ensure that schools do not suffer rapid and
needless deterioration requiring additional invesment to repair. In addion, USAID has
demonstrated the importance of specific and meaningf selection crieria for school locations, as
well as of deailed tender documents specfying how the qualit of constrcon work is to be
achieved; (i) related to USAID's isftional support to MOE, difficulties were encountered in
recruiting and placing qualiy MOE personel, particularly in key leadership positions-his
suggests t  need for now approaes to attract and retain high q ypersonne. USAID's
support to CDEPI has lacd a comenive maser plan for the eventual i natin of
MOE's reform pram  acro al units of the Misty. Ths should reqe addional



- 12 -
collaboration with other MOE units to identify key information requirements for policy
monitoring and plan identification, as well as continued support to MOE offices at the
governorate level; (iii) USAID's contributions to improving the relevance and quality of the
curricula and instructional materials did not sufficiently cover the need to improve the abilities of
teachers to use the new curricula and materials effectively; and (iv) the development of
institutions outside MOE, fully flnanced by donors, as a shortcut to bypass MOE bureaucracies,
which proved to be nonsustahnable, counterproductive and were resisted by MOE staff.
2.38        Based on lessons learned from previous Bank/IDA involvement and those of an
evaluation report of the USAID program, the lessons of experience confirm that project
ownership by the Egyptian Government and the institutional development of MOE are a primary
requirement for successful inplementation of the proposed project. The proposed project would
build on USAID achievements in strengthening MOE's managerial capacity (Annex 3). The
Bank project would help to ensure impact in institutional development through three measures: (i)
including MOE staff in all stages of project preparation and implementation and therefore
fostering coordination and project support within the Ministry; (ii) extending staff training to
senior management and to analysts for the data collected to be useful for sector planning; and (iii)
recruiting, training and retaining high quality personnel in the Ministry, a major policy issue
which should be addressed in the medium-term witiin the framework of public sector reform.
Moreover, the proposed project would closely coordinate technical assistance, carefully monitor
the implementation of civil works and the procurement of equipment and funiture to correspond
with the completion of buildings.
2.39        Through the Bank's involvement in an ongoing engineering and technical
education project as well as in the vocational training projects (Loans 3137-, 2264- and 2594-
EGI), the importance of basic education as an essential foundation for advanced education and
-taining has been confirmed. In addition, based on USAID experience, the resolution of many of
the crucial policy issues facing the sector is expected to be a lengthy process, given the
socioeconomic climate in the country. The proposed project would be a first step in such a
process.
G. Government Strategy and Dialogue with IDA
2.40        As noted in para. 2.27, the Government's Third Five-Year Plan places greater
emphasis on financing for the education sector. This is consistent with the Government's
objective to promote an integrated human resources and social development strategy that will
create the well-trained labor force needed to improve productivity and sustain long-term economic
growth. Essential elements of this strategy include measures to address seven key issues: (i)
population growth; (ii) the quality, efficiency and equity of education and health service delivery
systems; (iii) the relevance of the education and training systems to the needs of the economy;
(iv) the prevalence of poverty, and tPe, possible creation of a social safety net associated with
economic adjustment; (v) environr. -ital concerns that directly affect the health and safety of the
population; (vi) the need for greater resource mobilization and cost recovery; and (vii) the role of
women in the development process.
2.41        The proposed Basic Education Inprovement Project would extend IDA
involvement into an area considered by the Government and IDA to be a critical prerequisite for
developing a skilled, literate labor force, as well as for improving the effectiveness of later



- 13 -
educational levels and facilitating the reemergence of a market-oriented economy. According to a
recent World Bank policy paper7, "the effects of [basic] education on development are largely a
result of the cognitive skills it imparts: literacy, numeracy and problem-solving skills. Increasing
the level of education and training of the labor force is thus a central development challenge,
[since] a country's development prospects today hinge much more than even a generation ago on
the capacity to acquire, adapt and advance knowledge. [In addition), higher education and
training need to rest on a solid foundation, which is essentially the product of the [basic]
education system."
2.42        To develop a basic education system that adequately responds to the quantitative
and qualitative demands of the labor market and reduces the main causes of illiteracy among
youths, and particularly girls, MOE requires important fincial and technical support from
external sources. Towards this end, the proposed project would provide resources to the sector,
starting before the completion of USAID's Basic Education program in 1994, so that the
important momentum initiated under the USAID-supported program would not be lost. In
addition to extending access to schools to unserved and poorly served populations, the project
would initiae processes to improve system management and teaching in the schools. Finally, the
evaluation of project implementation, and execution of the studies it would finance, would extend
and strengthen the Bank's dialogue with the Government on education sector issues.
2.43        Building upon the experiences of this project and in light of the ongoing public
sector investment review and "Human Development and Sustainable Growth" study, subsequent
operations are expected to address sectoral issues, such as the reform of financing mechanisms
and incentive structures, and the strengthening of sectoral linkages to the labor market.
7/       PRimay Eucation. A World Bank Policy Paner. M. Lockheed, et al, The World Bank, 1990.



- 14-
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01        The proposed IDA Basic Education Project is intended to be the first in a series of
operations in the subsector aimed at preserving and consolidating MOE's achievements to date in
its reform of the basic education system. The project would assist the Government to improve
and accelerate the implementation of its strategy to (i) stn     MOE's institutional capacity to
effectively manage the system; (ii) improve instructional quality; (iii) provide universal access to
basic education, with special focus on females and the poor; (ih) reduce illiteracy among
children; and (v) mobilize community support and resources for the education sector. Through
measures in a selected key areas of intervention, the specific objectives of the project are
fourfold:
(a)   to improve access and equity through a well designed school construction and
maintenance program that could be used as a model by MOE;
(b)   to improve the quality of teaching and consolidate advancements in curricula
design through reinforcement of the in-service teacher training system;
(c)   to enhance MOE's institutional capacity in policy analysis, management and
education planning through training of MOE staff and further development and
efficient use of an education management information system (EMIS); and
(d)   to help defie policy options and alermatives in addressing two selected priority
education issues through studies to complement ongoing Bank-sponsored public
sector investment and human resource development studies.
B. Project Components
3.02        To accomplish the above objectives, the project would comprise the following four
interrelated components: (i) school construction and maintenance; (ii) in-service teacher training;
(iii) institutional development in management, informton and planning in MOE; and (iv) relatd
policy-oriented studies.
School Construction and Maintenance
3.03        The primary objective of this component is to increase primary and preparatory
school enrollments in urban and rural schools in seven priority governorates-balancing the needs
to reduce severe problems of overcrowding and multiple shifts in urban areas and to improve
access for girls and the poor in rural areas. Furthermore, the component would (i) ensure
adequate financial and manpower resources for the maintenance of schools constructed under the
project; (ii) consolidate in the seven priorty governorates the maintnance initives begun by
the Minister involving local communities; and (iii) strengthen the institutional capacities of
MOE's Central Directorate for Educational Planning and Informadon (CDEPI) and the General



- 15 -
Authority for Educational Buildings (GAEB) to carry out their respective roles in planning and
executing school construction and maintenance work.
3.04         Consistent with the Ministry's priority defined in its Five-Year School
Construction Plan, the proposed component would allow for three phases of construction of
primary and preparatory level schools in areas where there are currendy no such facilities, where
enrollment of girls is low, or where overcrowding is severe and/or there are multiple shifts.
Owing to the modest size of the proposed IDA credit, relative to the total physical and fiancial
needs of the basic education systems and to the serious impact of the recent earthquake (Annex
1), the proposed component has targeted seven governorates and specific areas within each to fit
the project criteria for school construction, with the selection reviewed by the IDA twam during
appraisal. IDA would finance only school construction (civil works), while the Govermnent
would provide all the needed equipment and furniture for the IDA-financed schools. MOE shall
obtain the Association's concurrence to the plans for furnishing and equipping the schools
included in the prcject. Worth noting is that the project would establish a new sustainable
methodology for the development of school designs and a functional linkage between the MIS and
the identification of needs for schools, teachers and maintenance.
3.05           The selection of sites for the primary and preparatory schools to be constructed
under the project shall be made in accordance with criteria acceptable to MOE and the
Association. Such criteria shall endeavor, in particular, to improve access for girls in rural
areas, to reduce overcrowding in urban areas and to achieve a proper balance of male, female
and mixed-gender schools. To date, 83 sites have been acquired or donated by local
communities for school construction in areas already identified by IDA for the first phase of the
School Construction Plan. This important development provides more sites than the number of
schools (about 70) to be constructed under the first phase of school building. Further, a series of
detailed drawings for a number of different size primary and preparatory schools has been
prepared by GAEB, and has been reviewed by MOE and IDA. Foundations have been designed
to be earthquake resistant and to allow for the future addition of at least one story. Detailed
drawings describing the kindergarten component have been added.
3.06         Taking into account lessons learned from the USAID school construction program
(Annex 3), agreement has been reached on an implementation plan with specific assignments for
the agencies or units involved. Notably, in order to minimize the appearance of conflict of
interest in GAEB's official roles as both the executing and monitoring agency for school
construction, a separate agency, the National Investment Bank (NIB), would assume
responsibility for monitoring implementation of the component. NIB successfully performed a
similar function for USAID's Basic Education Program and agreement has been obtained that
NIB will fulfill the same role under the project and agreement has been obtained that NIB will
fulfill the same role under the project. An implementation schedule has been agreed that will
ensure that schools will be constructed on a timely basis (Annex 4a). The final selection of the
school sites and the design of each school have been completed for the first phase of IDA-
fnanced schools. During appraisal, assurances were obtained that the final selection wil be
V/        To reach fl enrolment by the year 2000, five new schools per day will have to be constud, assuling
all eidstng schools will remain functional. This situation has been compounded by fte serious impact of the
October 1992 eathquake. The IDA project would finance only about two percent of the needed new school
construction over the next five years. Hence, the project-even in its larges component-is only a
'demonstration" project, though a large one.



- 16-
submitted for approval to IDA by December 31, 1994 for the second phase and December 31,
1995 for the third phase.
3.07        Maintenance. Maintenance services for school facilities are fmanced by GAEB's
26 branch offices through contractual arrangements with district-level contractors or through
headnmasters by providing LE 1,000 each year to pay for small repairs and minor maintenance
items of equipment/furniture and the facility. During the year, each schooi is visited by a GAEB
engineer who assesses the necessary repairs and submits his report to the appropriate authorities.
These services are also partly financed by the contribudons (in cash and in kind) of the local
communides.
3.08        The IDA-financed schools would serve as a pilot initiative for effective school
maintenance according to an agreed draft sustainable program. To ensure that the schools
financed under this project are adequately maintained and to consolidate the existing maintece
system so that the maintenance system can be replicated in the seven priority governorates, the
following arrangements have been made. Initally, the project would sponsor a series of
workshops with 60 senior and/or mid-level MOE staff and PIU governorate leaders to discuss the
importance of preventive maintenance, the training to be provided under this project, and
suggestions for improving the proposed mechanisms for maintenance. The workshop would be
followed by a training program on preventive maintenance sponsored by TOMOHAR, the
training agency of the Ministry of Reconstruction, New Cities and Housing. A total of 1,000
mantenamce specialists would receive this training over the life of the project, with a focus on
those governorates participating in the school construction project. Of the 1,000 maintenance
specialists trained, 200 would participate in additional training to become maintenance rainers.
Each maintenance trainer would then train janitors on simple mahtenance procedures. The
necessity of such training has become even more pronounced following the destruction of school
facilities by the October 1992 earthquake. Emphasizing preventive maintenance would not only
reduce the amount of severe maintenance problems, but would also improve the cost efficiency of
the maintenance system. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that arrangements for the
carrying out of this training components have been concluded between MOE and TOMOHAR.
3.09        Regular maintenance activities for project schools would be tracked and evaluated
as follows:
(a)   GAEB would inspect schools regularly and prepare for MOE an annual
report on their conditions of every school building financed under the
project;
(b)   MOE would ensure that adequate funds are allocated for GAEB for the
maintenance purpose of the project-financed schools; and
(c)   findings of inspection and information as to the allocation of maintenance funds
would be provided regularly to IDA.
The same approach will be applied to the seven govemorates. An action plan will
be agreed during the amnwal review of project implementation.
3.10        Collaboration Between GAEB and CDEPI. MOE, GAEB and IDA agreed that
it is essential that GAEB and CDEPI contine to work together to establish a compatible system
of data collection and sharing, with immediate emphasis on GAEB's ongoing survey of school



- 17 -
physical conditions. Such a system is an impo.tant prerequisite for the success of any
maintenance system.
3.11        Community Participation. Based upon a recently established system, commnity
participation would be two-fold: (i) the communities would purchase/donate appropriate sites for
school construction (Annex 4b); and (ii) as in the USAID model, MOE would ask the
comnmunities to donate the equivalent of 5 percent of the estimated construction cost for
maintenance, either in cash or in kind, as a prerequisite for building a school. For equity
purposes, the Minister of Education can waive this prerequisite for communities that are too poor
to generate these resources. The funds would serve to supplement those already made available
to the schools through Government (central and regional) resources. Technical assistance will be
provided to enhance the role of communities in school building and maintenance.
3.12        The proposed component would provide financing for:
(a)   School Construction. The construction of about 130 primary and 110
preparatory schools in the following governorates: Cairo, Sharkeya, Ismaiia,
Menofeya, Assiut, Sohag and Qena (with the actual number to be determined on
the basis of size of schools selected, and the cost of construction at the time of
implementation. MOE has already selected sites for the first phase of construction
(about 70 schools) based on criteria described in Annex 4. The proposed
construction has been equitably distributed between urban and rural sites, and
between primary and preparatory schools (with an equal number of male, female
and mixed-gender schools). It is important to note that the cost of construction
has already been lowered, especially in remote, rural areas,9 and MOE has
endorsed IDA's cost estimate of about US$105 equivalent per square meter
(without furniture and equipment). Site selection and the design of eah school,
included under the first phase, hLr been completed. (Estimated base cost:
US$36.45 million equivalent)
(b)   Local Maintenance Training. Throughout project implementation, a series of
local training programs in the seven governorates would be provided by
TOMOHAR to about 1200 GAEB engineers and MOE and GAEB trainers and
specialists in preventive and other type of maintenance. (Estimated base cost:
US$300,000 equivalent)
(c)   Technical Assistance for MOE and NIB to Consolidate Ther Istitutionrl
Capacities. To support the technical team within the MOE responsible for
setting school design standards and planning school requirements, UNDP financed
education building specialists would be recruited by June 1993. The project
would provide support for NIB to finance equipment, experts, and training, in
order to strengthen NIB's institutional capacity to administer and supervise school
construction work. (Estimated base cost: US$200,000 equivalent)
(d)   Enhanced Materials Testing Capacity. The project would finance the purchase
of equipment for a materials-testing laboratory within GAEB (US$150,000
equivalent) and a mobile soil tesftng truck (US$150,000 equivalent). Adequate
9/        According to GA1B, the average constuction cost of a ten classroom primary school is US$185,OOO
equivalent



- 18 -
space for the equipment had been provided. (Estimated cost: US$300,000
equivalent)
In-Service Teacher Training
3.13        Educational authorities in Egypt are well aware that to enance the educational
system in the ountry, teacher performace must be improved. Ihe proposed project takes Into
account the complexity and imortance of the many issues related to both the preservice and in-
service cducation of basic-level teachers, and aims to address both forms of education. However,
considering that all preservice teacher education is currendy under the responsibility of university
colleges of education, preservice teacher education would, at this time, be addressed only by a
policy-oriented study included in the studies component of the project (para. 3.28 and Annex 2)
tha would focus on "Teacher Preparation Policies and Programs."
3.14        Owing to the preponderance of inadequately trained teachers already in the system
and the continuing need to update teacher skills, in-service teacher training would be the main
focus of the component's activities. The component would provide financial and technical
assistance to the in-service training system for a wide range of improvements that are consistent
with the demands of curriculum development, teaching approaches, and examination practices.
The component would focus on developing cost-effective teaching methods and enhancing
management and instructional capabilities as a step towards enhancing instructional quality. In
particular, the component would help establish the capability within MOE to plan, design,
produce and use high quality teacher training materials.
3.15        Towards this end, four units would be established within GDIST related to (i) the
design; (ii) production; (iii) and evaluation of training modules; and (iv) distance education.
These units would produce effective prototype training modules in cooperation with the General
Directorate of Audiovisual Materials (GDAVM) and/or other public or private organizations, as
needed. Approximately 70 senior trainers, 3800 supervisors, and 120,000 teachers of math and
science (grades 4-8) and English (grades 6-8) including those in the three governorates of the
distance education pilot study would be trained under the project. The training plan has been
detailed to facilitate implementation and supervision tAnnex 5) and an implementation schedule
has been developed and agreed (Annex Sa).
3.16        To address the needs of the large numbers of teachers who face difficulties (costs
and inconvenience) in participating in teacher training, the proposed distance education program
would be introduced in the subject areas of mathematics, science and English. The modes of
delivery are expected to include study assignments, TV and/or videotape viewing, personal
contact sessions, and guidance by supervisors and head teachers. In addition to internal
evaluation of all activities, the distance education pilot training will be evaluated by NCERD
and/or other appropriate institutions other than those directly involved in the training (evaluation
to be completed by end of first quarter of year 5).
3.17        MOE recognizes the need for more integration and coordination in the
development of in-service teacher training programs. A Higher Commission for Training
(Ministerial Decree No. 219 of September 24, 1992) includes the management of the curriculum,
testing and research centers, together with high MOE officials with a mandate to plan and
develop, inter alia, in-service teacher traWning programs that are integrated and coordinated,
especially with respect to developments in curriculum and testing. The GDIST and its units will



- 19-
involve representatives of the concerned centers In detailing fte training programs and in their
implementation.
3.18        The process of curriculum reform and textbook revision is continuous and is
repeed in cycles. 'Me capability to be established in developing in-service teacher training
matrials is general in nature and should be useful at different levels. But, the plan is to start
production of training modules and inplementing training programs of teachers of grades 6-8
specifically in science, mathematics and languages to correspond as closely as possible with the
rent curricula reform and schedule of textbook production. The remaining categories of
trtinng would not correspond in timing with the current curricular reform. But flve years would
have lapsed and more in-service training would be needed. Furthernore, it is very likely that a
new process of curriculum revision would start then.
3.19        The measures to be fnanced by this component are the following:
(a)   the construction or upgrading of a facility to house GDIST's new module
production and distance education units at Manshiet al-Bakri (Cost: US$650,000
equivalent);
(b)   technical assistance (80 person-months), courses and academic fellowships (96
person-months of international study; and local study) for additional GDIST staff
(Cost: US$1.69 million equivalent);
(c)   construction and equipping of a new Regional Training Center (RTC) in Qena; tde
site has already been acquired. A design has already been developed and is being
detailed to be ready for bidding documentation (Cost: US$800,000 equivalent);
(d)   upgrading of the six existing RTCs (Manshiet al-Bakri, Assiut, Zagazig, Tanta,
Port Said and Alexandria), including equipment and materials (Cost: US$340,000
equivalent);
(e)   providing equipment and supplies for the four modules production units to be
established in GDIST, and producing five sets of prototype training modules
(Cost: US$480,000 equivalent); and
(t)   implementing training programs for about 70 senior trainers, 3,800 trainers and
120,000 teachers in science, mathematics and English including those involved in
field testing of a pilot distance education program for teachers in three selected
governorates (Cost: US$4.15 million equivalent).
More detailed descriptions of these measures and cost estimates are provided in Annex 5.
Indicators related to speciflc outcomes, targets and methods of assessment unit monitoring are
provided in Annex 5b.
3.20        During appraisal, the following critical steps for the timely finalization and
implementation of this component were agreed with the Government:
(a)   a commiment by MOE to assume the additional recurrent costs (Annex 5)
generated by the expansion of this component;



- 20 -
(b)   selection of a site for the construction/renovation of facilities at Manshiet el-Bakri
to house the four units to be established in the GDIST;
(c)   within the framework of UNDP support for the institution building of MOE, the
engagement of two consultants, in accordance wiffi the terms of reference
provided in Annex 5 and using the UNDP preparatory assistance financing, to
develop, in further detail, the plans for the proposed GDIST units and their staff
and to prepare detailed technical assistance terms of reference for staff training
and finalize equipment specifications;
(d)   appointment of a full-time coordinator in the PIU for the proposed GDIST module
production and distance education units; and
(e)   MOE shall ensure the staffing by December 31, 1993, in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Association, of the four units of GDIST.
Institutional Development
3.21         Background. This component aims at supporting the MOE's objective, as
expressed in its Third Five-Year Plan, to upgrade, modernize and increase the efficiency of the
basic education subsector as a step towards increasing the efficiency of the sector as a whole. At
present, national and governorate policy analysis and planning lack both relevant, timely and
reliable information, and coordination and integration among the various tasks performed by
different units within MOE. (See Annex 6a for MOE's organizational structure). It is evident
that planning for each level and type of education, as well as for various educational inputs and
physical requirements, is performed by separate directorates in a fragmented, isolated and vertical
mer without adequate horizontal linkages and coordination. Such coordination needs to be
established among all MOE sectoral departments (undersecretaries) and the directorates charged
with planning, as well as between these directorates and CDEPI. The Minister of Education has
agreed and issued the necessary directives that give CDEPI the responsibility to coordinate
among the various MOE directorates all issues related to comprehensive educational planning
(i.e., planning the different aspects of the educational system). Agreement was reached that
MOE shall ensure, not later than December 31, 1993, that all senior positions in CDEPI shall be
filled by appropriately qualified persons.
3.22         The component measures MOE's ongoing efforts, assisted by USAID, to create
the institutional capacity to develop and utilize an Educational Management Information System
(EMIS). It acknowledges the substantial institutional development that has occurred, including
technical staff training, installation and design of systems for processing data from annual school
surveys at both the central and governorate levels, and the recently established program for
expanding and enhancing the school survey and information system. However, the participation
and training of the "users", in this case the basic education sector, is essential to the achievement
of the full effectiveness of such a program. Existing institutional development efforts, however,
need to coninue and expand in order to sustain accomplishments to date, especially since the
USAID assistance is scheduled to end by mid-1994. Additional efforts to coordinate and
rationalize educational planning and to develop an integrated educational data base are also
required. These are the focus of the proposed component. An important action taken is that a
joint USAID, MOE and IDA coordinating committee has been formed to synchronize an action
plan for the USAID phasing out period.



- 21 -
3.23        Objective. The objective of the institutional development component is to assist
MOE to strengthen management, planning and policy analysis. The first phase of the component
is to design an institutional development program for strengthening and improving the
management and planning of basic education through training and retention of senior and mid-
level management and to sustain these functional improvements through the use of hnowledge-
based systems and procedur based on improvement In the design and use of information. The
second phase of the component (to start after the phasing out of the USAID progran In mid-May
1994) will assess the information needs of MOE for effective manageume, planning and policy
analysis and design an improved information system that provides the relevant information in a
timely, reliable fashion. The detailed objectives of the component, including criteria and methods
of assessment are shown in Annex 6c.
3.24        To achieve the above objectives, the following agreements have been reached
between MOE and IDA:
(a)   Technical Committee. According to the madt of the Higher Commission for
Training (HCT), chaired by the Minister, a Technical Committee for nsdtituonal
Development (TCID), linked to HCT (see Annex 6d) had been formed as
confirmed during negotiations. This Committee would include senior-level MIOE
staff members. MOE shall maintain TCID with adequate resources and facilities
until the completion of the above-mentioned program, and shall assign to it the
responsibility for the carrying out, in coordination with PIU and CDEPI, of the
measures for institutional development. UNDP-financed experts in educational
planning and management, organizational development and training, and
computer-based management information systems would assist the technical
committee in the development of the institutional development program.
(b)   During project implementation, the TCID would examine the planning and
management functions carried out initially at the diwan (central) level, and during
the second phase at the mudiriya (regional) level, and would identify the gaps
between the functions, skills and information the system currently provides and
those needed for effective planning and m e . The component would build
upon the training and information technology supported by USAID and would
include four elements: (i) a staff training progran based on technical and
managerial requirements and existing staff training and incentive practices; (ii) the
specification of information needs for directorates at the mudiriya and diwan levels
by type of information and the time (during the year) when the information is
needed10; (iii) a strategy and a programn for implemendng adequate training and
developing an information system to respond to those needs; and (iv) the
specification of system requirements: e.g., staffing, software and hardware mainly
at the nudiriya level, and later at the dhvan level.
(c)   MOE has agreed to link training provided under this component (i) to a recently
developed system for promotion to General Director (and higher posts); (ii) to
criteria for the selection of trainees; and (iii) to measures auned at retaining
I0/      Much of the infomtion for th analysis is included in the sudy by J.Toronto, -An OqW&tiona A1 ywi
ofthe Ministry of Education (ARE): The Producon, Flow, and Use of Inmtion in th Decision-Making
Process3; HID; May 19.



- 22 -
trainees in their areas of acquired expertise. Putting into effect of such incentive
system was confmed during negotiations.
(d)   The expected output from the TCID Includes the specification of a program of
management training for senior and middle-level staff based on sound management
principles and linked to the improvement of planning, operations, efficiency and
effectiveness within basic education directorates.
(e)    Within the framework of UNDP support for the institutional development of
MOE, the final EMIS strategy (development master plan) would include the
development of specific recommendations for training needs and for simplifying
and streamlinig the process of data collection by various users witiin MOE, as
well as the definition of local information needs, and fiuther refinement of the
hardware/software and communication technology requirements."1 As reflected
in the agreed implementation plan, TCIM assisted by UNDP-financed experts, and
in collaboration with USAID resident experts, would complete the master plan by
September 30, 1993.
3.25         Implementation of this component in its two parts (phases) will result in improved
policy analysis, planning and management in basic education. This will be reflected in the
arculation and implementation of measures designed to (i) increase administrative access, and
reduce wastage (dropout and repetition), and (ii) increase educational quality. It will also be
conducive to the optimal use of scarce resources in achieving these objectives. Indicators to
mease the implementation of these measures have been agreed (Annex 6b).
3.26         Building upon the ongoing USAID program, the proposed institutional
development component would support the following efforts: (estimated total cost for this
component is US$4.61 million)
(a)   Technical Assitce. To accelerate project implementation, a UNDP financed
team of experts would assist the TCID as indicated above. Subsequently,
following project effectiveness, the full-time PIU coordinator for the componeit
would assist in drafing terms of reference for, and supervision of, short-term
specialists and assist in the organization monitoring and implementation of the
training program. Short-term consultants (64 person-months) would provide
training and analysis in fields such as educational planning and management;
systems design and software applications; and research and policy analysis.
Priority would be given to hiring national consultants/institutions to perform these
tasks.2 The estimated cost for this technical assistance is US$1.2 million.
(b)   Traning. The overall objective of the training to be provided Is to link policies
and plans to management performance more effectively. There are three types of
training to be provided (see Annex 6e): (i) short-term training for headquarters
management and technical staff (US$430,000); (ii) short-term training for
1         noe appraial mission reviwed and approved a draft stmtegy (master plan) subject to the final plan including
speib  ommons with rspect to tmning newds.
2/        7 wThe eof inteaal consltsi  would be reattd to aeas where adequate natonal expelise
is not available.



-23 -
governorate management and technical staff (US$560,000); and (iii) technical
(medium-term) training abroad (US$120,000). The overall total cost for trainirg
would be US$1.11 million. The training would cover topics such as: management
by objectives; decision analysis; coordination and teamwork; comnunications; and
the use of information systems to monitor, report and make decisions. Training
would also introduce computer applications such as word processing, spreadsheets
and databases. Most of the traning would be carried out locally, and would use a
workshop and team approach to analyzing and improving unit management. This
principle is particularly important for the key target group, senior managers.
Detailed tables related to the training and tecmical assistance programs in (a), (b)
and (c) were developed by IDA in collaboration with MOE and with assistance
from USAID-funded consultants. These tables (Annex 6e) include the types of
technical assistance; the provision for training, including the target groups, the
management and technical skill areas; the number of trainees, duration and
location for training; and the preliminary identification of system hardware and
software.
(c)   System Hardware, Software and Technical Support. The component would
assist the CDEPI to extend systems initiated at central and governorate levels to
serve planning and operational needs. At the center, the acquisidon of addidonal
hardware, software and technical support (including maintenance), would build on
the current efforts for the development of an integrated basic education data base,
and would provide on-line access to this data base to planners, decision makers
and researchers. At the governorate level, the strategy is to target planning and
basic education operational units, and extend the use of the schools data base
system now set up and functioning in the Education Statistics Offices. Costs
associated with this subcomponent include the following: computer hardware;
facility planning and modifications; maintenance and other recurrent costs; and
technical assistance needed to develop and oversee these systems. The estimated
overall cost is US$2.2 million.
(d)   Provision of Space for CDEPI/EMIS Facilities. The objective of this
subcomponent is to accommodate CDEPI offices in adjacent space so that the
Directorate can function more effectively as a team, and so that the access of the
Directorate units to information contained in the schools' data base can be linked
by a network. The units to be accommodated include the Research Directorate;
the Planning and Follow-up Directorate; the Physical Planning Unit; and an EMIS
training room. During appraisal, CDEPI provided IDA with a proposed design
for CDEPI offices. However, IDA agreed with MOE officials that to be able to
design appropriate space for these offices, detailed functional specifications,
organization and design to accommodate EMIS will be required. The estimated
cost for providing additional space, and renovating existing space to enable a
network to be established is US$100,000. A detailed cost table for EMIS
requirements is shown in Annex 6f. A more detailed description of the primary
component measures and outputs are shown in Annex 6g and an implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 6h.
(e)   Technical Documentation. Appropriate technical documentation and reference
materials in support of policy analysis, planning and technology use would be
provided under this subcomponent at an estimated cost of US$200,000.



-24-
3.27         Sustainabilit of the Training Programs and the Retention of Staff. The
component is designed to focus on (i) realistic and cost-effective training programs, and (ii)
measures to retain highly skilled or newly trained staff. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed the details of supplementary/incentive pay for persons with high technical skdlls within
CDEPI and the general education sector. An esdmated 80 staff members will have or will
acquire high tchnical skills during the project.
Related Policy-oriented Studies
3.28         As noted earlier, there are several priority areas with important policy implications
for MOE which merit in-depth analysis. Two areas in particular would be examined under the
project. The first, described in Annex 5, would address teacher salaries and preparation policies
and programs, including the structure, operation and effectiveness of the preservice teacher
education system. The second study would focus on ways to (i) use more effectively and
efficiently resources allocated to the education sector, and (ii) to mobilize additional financial
resources for the basic education system, taking into account the issue of equity.
3.29         Both proposed studies will take into account the 'Human Development and
Sustainable Growth' study, the 'Public Expenditure Review' and the 'Private Sector Regulation'
study being prepared by IDA at the request of the Egyptian Government Moreover, these two
proposed studies would be designed and undertaken in full collaboration with an Egyptian
counterpart team and with the participation of national experts. Agreement was reached that
MOE shall (i) carry out the project-fmanced studies (with the assistance of consultants) under
terms of reference satisfactory to MOE and the Association; (ii) ensure, by December 31, 1994,
the completion of such studies and the fumishing, through PIU, to the Association of their
findings and recommendations; and (iii) prepare, in consultation with the Association, and
thereafter carry out a plan of action, based on alternatives consistent with MOE's policies,
objectives and programs in the education sector.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECr COSS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPlENENTATION
A. Prjec Costs
4.01        Mme ttal project costs are esmated at LE 243.7 milSlon or US$73.8 million
equivalent including contingencies, taxes and duties, of which US$24.4 million equiv, or 33
percent of the total project cost, is the foreign exchange component. The proposed IDA credit of
US$55.5 million equivaent would finance 80 percent of the total project costs including
contingencies but excluding taxes and duties; Govenumnt will finane the balance of US$18.3
million. Total condngencies represent 27 percent of the base cost. Major invesmt cost
categories are school construction and maitenance, and in-service teacher training. Incremental
recurrent costs to be financed by the Govrenment will arse mainly from salanes of additional
staff, and operations and mantenance of new faciles. The esdmated cost distribudon by project
component is shown in Table 4.01, while the smmay of project cost estim   by category is
shown in Table 4.02. The bases of cost estmates are briefly described below.
Table 4.01: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Total
Foreign    Base
Local Foreipn  Total  Local Foreign Total   Exchange  Cost
-I(LE million)- -(US$ million)-   (%)-
Institutional Devt      4.3    7.5   11.8    1.3    2.3    3.6       63.7      6.1
Project Management      2.3    0.0    2.3    0.7    0.0    0.7        0.0      1.2
ln-Svc Teacher Trng.    20.0   14.7   34.7    6.1    4.5   10.5      42.4    18.0
School Const. & Maint.  98.5   44.7  143.2   29.8   13.6   43.4       31.2    74.4
Policy Studies          0.3    0.1    0.4    0.1    0.0    0.1       25.0      0.2
Total Base Cost      125 A 67.  1922        auQ   2Q      aa        1M .n
Contingencies:
Physical              12.0    6.3   18.2    3.6    1.9    5.5       34.4      9.5
Price                 L       U     33.0    7A      L I, 10 01
Subtotal              LLZ    I.             1L4  4I .&            1         lS.
Total Project Cost    163.1   80.6  243.7   49.4   24.4   73.8 !    33.1   126.6
Note: Totals may not add up due tO rounding.
1&,ca~ imSiki     _ Wddd $.IiIS4.4ml.



- 26 -
4.02        Tble 4.02 provides a breakdown of the investment and recurrent costs of the project.
Baseline investnent and recurrent costs total US$51.2 million and US$7.1 million, respectively.
Table 4.02: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
Total
Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange Costs
----(LE million)------  ------(US$ million)----
Invesun.nt Costs
Civil Works          81.2   41.1  122.3   24.6   12.5   37.1      33.6    63.6
Equipment             1.4    8.7   10.1    0.4    2.6    3.1      86.3     5.3
Furniture             8.3    3.6   11.9   2.5    1.1    3.6       30.3     6.2
TA/Fellowships        1.3    7.1    8.4    0.4    2.1    2.5      84.7     4.3
Training             11.9    44   16.3    3.6   _13    4.9           
Subtotal             104.1   64.9  169.0   31.5   19.7   51.2      38.4    87.8
Incremental ecurrent Cs
Salaries              6.9    0.0    6.9    2.1    0.0    2.1       0.0     3.6
Optn. & Maint.       14.4    21   16.    4 4    0 6               12.9 _2
S;ukIa1               21.3    2.1   23.4    6.5    0.6    7.1       9.1    12.2
Total Baseline Costs    124 67.0  .192.4  38.0   2        53       34 2   .i
Contingencies:
Physical             12.0    6.3   18.2    3.6    1.9    5.5      34.4     9.5
Price                257    73   33 0     7 8    12    10.0       22      172
Subtotal              37.7   13.6   51.2   11.4   4.1   15.5       56.5    26.7
Total Project Cost   163.1   80.6  243.7   49.4   24.4   73A8'a   33.1   126.6
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
a    Ptod8 coiss batos and dedmatd at US$44 millo.
Basis of Cost Ftimtes
4.03        Base and unit costs for the project are estimated on the basis of prices prevailing at
the time of appraisal. Local costs were converted into US dollar terms at the prevailing exchange
rate of LE 3.3 per US dollar. Baseline costs are derived as follows: (i) civil works from recent
contracts awarded by GAEB for similar buildings; (ii) technical assistance costs from ongoing



- 27 -
contracts. Staff-month costs for specialists include fees, housing and subsistence, travel and
overhead costs; (iii) equipment based on final lists and recent quotations from supplies; and (iv) staff
salaries from prevailing civil service scales.
Contingency Allowances
4.04         Physical contingencies are estimated at US$5.9 million, based on 10 percent of the
cost of all items except technical assistance for which 5 percent was provided. Total price
contingencies are estimated at US$9.7 million. Price contingencies for local costs have been
estimated at 9.1, 6.2, 4.5, 4.1, 4.0, and 4.0 percent, respectively, for the years 1994-1999, based on
the latest economic review of the country. Price increases for foreign costs have been estimated at
3.8 percent per annum throughout the life of the project. Total contingencies are estimated to be
about 30 percent of baseline costs.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.05         The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (i) civil works, 35
percent; Qi) equipment, 95 percent; (iii) furniture, 30 percent; (iv) technical assistance/fellowships,
100 percent; (v) local training, 20 percent; and (vi) incremental recurrent costs for operations and
maintenance, 10 percent, and for salaries, 0 percent.
Customs Duties and Taxes
4.06         Project costs include taxes and duties estimated at US$4.4 million equivalent or 10
percent of civil works costs. Equipment and software imported directly for the project, as well as
technical assistance, would be exempt from duties and taxes.
Incremental Recurrent Costs
4.07         The new recurrent costs to be generated by the project itself would consist of
supplemnentary/incentive pay for staff with high technical skills in the basic education sector
(CDEP1), salaries of staff for the new Qena RTC, the institutional development programs and salary
supplements for PIU staff, as well as annual equipment operation and maintenance. At 1993 prices,
these incremental recurrent costs are estimated at about LE 23.4 million over the nine-year life of the
project, or LE 3.9 million per year of a fully operational project. This annual recurrent cost is less
than 0.26 percent of MOE's planned 1993 budget and is deemed sustainable.
B. PROJECT FINANCING
4.08         The proposed IDA credit of SDR 40 million (US$55.5 million equivalent) will finance
100 percent of foreign cost and 74 percent of local cost or about 80 percent of the total project cost
including coningencies but excluding taxes and duties amounting to US$4.4 million equivalent. The
Government will finance US$18.3 million equivalent, representing about 37 percent of local costs
including taxes. The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 4.03. The Government shall
provide promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
project.



-28 -
Table 4.03: FINANCING PIAN (US$ miliot)
% of
Financing
Local    Foreign     Total         Plan
IDA                    33.2      22.3       55.5         75
Governmnt              16.2       2.1        18.3        25
Total                  49.4      24.4       73.8        100
C. Project Ma    ent and Implementation
4.09        Preparation of the project has been facilitated by the Minister's fiull support and by the
early eslishment of a high-level countepart team reprseing the various MOE units assigned
direct responsibility for the project components (i.e., CDEPI, GAEB, the First Undersecretary for
Services, and the First Udescetaiy for Basic Education) and chaired by the ex-president of Ain
Shsmu University. To date, this tm, along with the senior policy group including all
undersetaries, has contributed substwially to the design of the project, and is expected to provide
valuable input to the start-up and operation of a project impleentMtibn unit (PIU) under the auspices
of the Minister of Education's office. To facilite a smooth transition from the USAID basic
education program (which is scheduled to end in mid-1994) to the proposed IDA project, USAI) has
agreed to assist the MOE in startp activities for the civil works, teacher training and institutional
development components of the proposed project, before credit effectiveness.
4.10        Overall authority for project management would rest with the Minister of Education.
Also, the recently appointed speial advisor to the Minister would liaise with the project
implementation unit to facilitate project implementation.
4.11        Furthermore, as noted in parm 2.36, UNDP funding of a Technical Secreuriat In the
office of the Minister of Education would aid the mngment of the project. The secretariat would
strive to provide technical and analytical support to the Miister, while also helping to coordinate and
maximize the value added of the various donor actives in the Mistry. The s triat would work
with the high-level counterpart tem comprising all MOE staff at or above the rank of undersecretary
to evaluate project action plans and propose policy changes to the Minister.
Project llanento  Unit
4.12        The PIU, that includes a core team of full-time staff, would be responsible for the
daily magement of project imple ion, including maagement of project funds and routine on-
site supervision of project activities. Ihe processing of procurement documents woul also be
carried out by the PIU. However, for school construction-related contracts, this role would be



- 29 -
reduced to one of final oversight responsibility, since GAEB will carry out the tendering and bid
evaluation processes for dut component and NIB will monitor the implementation.
4.13        Six fill-time PIU staff would mae the unit fully functional, comprising a project
man er, dputy director, a prou  nt/accoundng specialist, a civil works coordinator, a teacher
Waining coordinator, an    utional development coordinator, and support staff consisting of an
administrive assistant and a bilingual secretary. Agreement with MOE was reached during
appraisal on the structure and funding of the PITU and on the selection process for PIU staff (which
would follow the sane competitve application and review procedures used successfully for the PIU
of the Bn's reen Engieri  and Technical Educadon Project (Loan 3137-EGT)). In fact, two
of the six PIT staff have already been appointed. The Governent confirmed that by Septmber
1993, the PIU will be fully staffed. As a condition of effectiveness, Government action is needed on
the appointment of the full-time PIT staff and provision of suitable accommodations for the tean.
4.14        Because it is criticalto attract qualified staff and to provide adequate incentives to
sutain the PIU, IDA will participate in financing part of the PIU salaies and operating expenses on
a declining basis (e.g., 100 percent the first year; 90 percent the second year; and 80, 70, 60, 50, 40
and 20 percent in subsequent years). The management structrre for the implementaton of the
interrelated components of the project was designed to develop close collaboration among
Implementing authorities, delegate decision making to the lowest appropiate levels, and develop
manageria capacity in the sector.
4.15        The PIU coordinator for each component would interact with a counterpart team from
the apprpriate MOE departments. These counterpart teams have already been formed according to
cieria agreed with IDA, and are chaired by the appropriate underseary or his delegate. The
PIU would be responsible, inter alia, for preparing and implementing anmual work programs to be
approved by the appropriate MOE authorities and by IDA (Annex 7).
4.16        Project Launch. The PIU would organize a project launch workshop, with IDA's
partcipaton shortly after credit effectiveness. The purpose of such a workshop would be (i) to
familiarize all relevant project officials with IDA rules and regulations; (ii) to learn from lessons of
experiences from ongoing Bank-financed projects; and (iii) to review in detail with relevant project
entities and authorities all project components and activities.
4.17        PIroject im     t    . During negotiations, agreements were made on detailed
project implementation plans for each component (Annexes 2a, 4a, 5a and 6h).
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
4.18        The estmated costs and procurement arrangements for the project elements to be
financed by te IDA Credit are smmarized in Table 4.04. Except as noted in para 4.19, all
eqipment, civil works and maerials to be financed under the IDA Credit would be procured
following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines, *Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.' In particular:



- 30-
(a)   Equipment and Materiab. Equipment would be gtouped into appropriate bid
packages for purposes of uniformity and economy of scale. Of these packages, about
75 percent of the total value of equipment would be procured through ICB
procedures. Egyptian bidders would be allowed a nargin of preference of 15 percent
of the bid price or the custom duties that a non-exempt importer would have to pay,
whichever is less.
(b)   Civil Works. All civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000 per
contract would be procured through ICB. It is envisaged that about 30 contacts will
be involved whose contract value would be in the range of US$0.5 to US$1.5 million.
Local civil works contractors competing for bids under ICB would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7.5 percent over prices of competing international bidders.
Works procured through ICB would account for about 60 percent of the total value of
civil works. The remaining 40 percent of civil works would be in packages sukable
for LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, the packaging of
the first tranche of school constructions was agreed.
4.19        Other Procurement Procedures. The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as
follows:
(a)   Equipment and Materials. Since there is adequate local availability of materials and
equipment at competitive prices, local shopping procedures with at least three
quotations from three independent suppliers would be used for contracts for equipment
and materials for all project institutions, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per
contract, with an aggregate limit of US$600,000.
(b) Books and Inoteectual Property. Contracts for intellectual property items such as
books, journals, teaching materials, computer software including annual upgrading
and licensing arrangements estimated to cost about US$800,000 in the aggregate, may
be awarded on terms satisfactory to IDA following direct negotiations with
property/copyright owners.
(c)   Civil Works. Although packaged, about 40 percent of civil works would be too
small and too dispersed geographically to be of interest to foreign bidders. Civil
works bids estimated to cost less than US$500,000 per package (US$13.4 million
aggregate) would be awarded following local competitve bidding (LCB) procedures.
The competitive bidding procedures for GAEB have been reviewed and found
acceptable regarding economy and fairness. However, some of these procedures will
have to be modified to comply with IDA guidelines. During negotiations,
Government agreed that the procurement procedures to be followed would comply
with IDA guidelines.
(d)   Technical Assistance (IA). Selection of consultants would be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines, "Use of Consultants. " Specialist services would involve both
consulting agencies and individual consultants, and fellowships would be obtained
mainly through consulting organizations and firms. The terms of reference for
consulting services were reviewed and agreed during appraisal.



- 31 -
Table 4.04: PROCUREMWE ARRANGEMENTS (US$ milllons)A
Pcraemnt Method
Category                            ICB        LCB        Other      NBFP       Total
Civil works, design & supervision      27.0      19.4                              46.4
(24.3)    (17.5)                           (41.8)
Equipment, software, mterials           2.3                   1.4"                  3.7
(2.3)                (1.4)                 (3.7)
Furniure                                                                  4.60      4.6
(0.0)     (0.0)
Technical Assisance/Fellowships                               3.6"                  3.6
(3.6)                 (3.6)
In-service/Local Training                                     6.0                   6.0
(6.0)                 (6.0)
Salaries                                                                  0.8k      1.802.6
(0.4)      (0.0)      (0.4)
Operational Costs                                                         2.7"      2.7
(0.0)     (0.0)
School Maintenance                                                       4.2w       4.2
(0.0)     (0.0)
Finmcing Requirement                   29.3      19.4        11.8        13.3      73.8
IDA Fmancing                          (26.6)    (17.5)      (11.4)       (0.0)    (55.5)
Note Numben may not add up to totals duo to rounding.
w     Auimaabbspsraiala a, rqeosvwm fhmaoedby doa MA CIIL
hi    No&'BnkfimWW.
V      Lwm .bq0*(#W,OOOqp9aat.) for iu .Osn km On USS100.OOjwr pckag, an bas of at Ingt tue quaOaomf dwl_ iqm_fbat
uwm  oB. iata _d anwcpai4proutdd   feromcpMaa  psbima(ewsia.US$SOO.OOO.
5      PIIJ sald aid opaCmlo  psucr i cdsnch acepals sA peoceduau(_ swwa$400.Oo)(.
a/     O@traffs*ssadmi   vmml patl.lo  fhuacaibyGowmmauhsecedn WWft=la= #a~,mgvm matscdu
4.20         Contract Review. Equipment Lists, draft bid invitations and bidding documents, and
consultants' terms of reference were reviewed during appraisal. All contats awarded through ICB,
as well as consultant appointments, and all contracu valued US$500,000 or more would be subject to
prior review by IDA. It is estimated that prior review would cover about 57 percent of the value of
atl contracts for civil works and equipment. IThis relatively low percentage is considered acceptable
in view of the large mber of small contracts and the well established procedures for LCB for civil
works. The remaining civil works and equipment contracts would be subject to selective post-award
reviews by IIDA.
4.21         School construction would be implmented through the PIU, NIB and GAEB. GAEB,
through the education departmn  in the governorates, would be responsible for acquiring the school



- 32-
sites according to criteria agreed with IDA and within the governorates selected for participation in
the project. A sample of these sites would be visited by the PIU and NIB to ensure that all selection
criteria have been met. According to the needs of the community, GAEB would decide in full
consultation with MOE the type of school to be built and this would be reviewed by IDA prior to
calling for bids. Before GAEB awards the contract, it would be reviewed by the PIU, NIB and IDA
to ensure that IDA procurement guidelines have been followed. More detailed descriptions of these
procedures are provided in Annex 4.
Disbursement
4.22        The proposed project is expected to be disbursed in about 18 semesters over the
period 1993-2001 following the standard for the human resources sector for Egypt (Annex 8). The
disbursement period is deemed feasible in view of the advanced level of project preparation (e.g.,
standard school designs have been prepared, and many school sites have already been identified) and
the initiation of some activities before project effectiveness using UNDP financing.
4.23        The credit closing date would be June 30, 2001. Disbursements, which are expected
to be completed within six months after project completion, would be as follows:
(a)   90 percent for civil works expenditures;
(b)   100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and installation costs, furniture for
facilities other than schools, books, training materials, proprietary software and
supplies; 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items; and 85 percent
of the cost of goods procured locally;
(c)   100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance, studies, fellowships, local and in-
service training programs, and architectural and engineering services; and
(d)   PIU salary and operating expenses on a declining basis (i.e., 100 percent for the
period ending December 31, 1994 and decreasing by 10 percent each year until it
reaches 20 percent by December 31, 2002).
4.24        All disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$100,000
equivalent would be fully documented. For expenditures below that level, disbursements would be
made on the basis of Statements of ExDenditure (SOE) certified by the PIU Project Manager. The
required supporting documentation would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by
the IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon
request.
4.25        Special Account. MOE would open and maintain a Special Account in the Natonal
Bank of Egypt in which IDA, upon request from MOE, would deposit funds up to an authorized
allocation of US$2.5 million equivalent. The Special Account would be replenished against
withdrawal applications of at least US$.50 million at monthly intervals or, as appropriate, when the
undisbursed balance of the Account is equal to US$1.0 million or less. All disbursements under the
project would be against standard documentation except for contracts below US$100,000 which
would be claimed under statement of expenditure (SOE) procedures. All SOEs would be made
available for examination by IDA supervision missions. During appraisal, the Government agreed



- 33 -
that the Special Account and SOEs would be audited in conjunction with oe anmal audit of the
project accounts.
4.26        Rtractive Finacig. To support civil works preparation activldes necessary to
take place between negotations and project effeveneW , wihdrawals In an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$500,000 equivalent may be made on account of paymens made for expenditures
incunred after March 1, 1993.
E. Monitoring and Supvsio
Accounts, Auditing and Reportig
4.27        Sepae accounts would be mntained for all expeniures made under the project.
The accounts and statements of expenditure would be audited each year by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and submitted no later tham six months afker the end of the Government's fiscal
year.
4.28        MOE shall prepare, through PIU, and furmish to the Association, on a format agreed
upon bete MOE and the Association, quarterly reports on progress in the carrying out of the
project. The report will include any problems encountered, and solutions proposed or adopted, and
the schedule of activiies for te next six-month period.
4.29        During appraisal, Government assurances were received that the PIU would submit to
IDA annual audit reports and quarterly progress reports acceptable to IDA.
Supervision
4.30        Specific supenrision plans were agreed with MOE during appraisal. Periodic IDA
supervision missions (three per year, including annua reviews to approve aual action plans) are
anticipated throughout the fist three years of the project. In addition, an annual review would be
conducted joindy by MOE, MIC and IDA (including the Bank's resident mission) to evaluate the
effectiveness and impct of the project, assess emergig needs for adjustnt of project actives and
agree on the approved action plan. The resident mission would be instumental in, inter alia,
following up on pending issues. Moreover, annual country impleation reviews will be used as a
vehicle to highlight implementation difficulties. (See Annex 9)
Annual Review and Sector Policy Diague
4.31        Because the proposed project is the first step of a longer-term sector reform strategy,
agreement has been reached with the Government (MOE and MIC) that the aual review will also
be used as a platform to discuss with the Government major sector policy issues and to help develop
and implement a sector reform strategy.
Mid-term Review and Evaluation
4.32        During negodations, agreement was confirmed hat MOE shall conduct, joindy with
the Association, by June 30, 1997, or such ote date as the Association may agree, a mid-term
review of the project. The report shall detne imp ion progress and ways to improve



- 34-
project operations and allow an opporunity to effect changes in policy, based on experience during
the   a period and emergent sectoral needs at the time of the review. The mid-term review would
also affect the necessary mid-course adjustments in project components and procedures.
Pject Completion Report
4.33        Within six months of the credit closing date, the PIU would compile, at the request of
IDA, project data and forward the same to IDA, for the project completion report, which would
summaie project implementation performance and evaluate its impact.



- 35 -
V. BENEFTIS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01         Assuming a 25-year minimm lifetime for schools constructed under the project, more
than 500,000 basic-level children would benefit directly from the construction of new schools In the
target governorates. Moreover, during the project lifetime, children h. those governorates would
benefit from improvements in their school environments (i.e., facilities, equipment, and class sizes
and duration) and from the positive impact those improvements would have on instructional quality,
as multiple shifts are reduced and as a systematic preventive maintenance program is put in place
(which could also significantly extend the lifetimes of schools).
5.02         In addition, the quality of instruction should improve nationwide as teachers are
provided with better methods of presenting the curriculum (through new training modules developed
by MOE using institutional capabilities that would be strengthened under the project). Although the
enhanced capability would be used to train teachers in various subjects, about 70 leaders, 3800
tacher trainers and 120,000 teachers would be trained in science, mathematics or English during the
lifetime of the project.
5.03         Combined, these improvements in the availability and quality of basic education
should also encourage many potential dropouts to remain in school, thereby combatting one of the
primary causes of illiteracy.
5.04         Other benefits would include the following: (i) the consolidation of MOE's
istitutional capacity, including its information, planning and policy analysis capabilities, to enable its
management to make decisions and allocate resources in a more rational manner; and (ii) the
conversion of current ad hoc attempts to mobilize resources for school rehabilitation and maintenance
hito a systematic program.
B. Risks
5.05         The main risk associated with this first IDA project in basic education in Egypt relates
to potential project implementation delays caused by cumbersome bureaucratic procedures within
MOE. To reduce this risk, a project high-level counterpart team has been formed within MOE and a
Technical Secretariat has been established.
5.06         Furthermore, the project takes into account the experinces of other bilateral and
multilateral donor agencies with MOE and the basic education system. Another risk is MOE's
distorted incentive strucure (resulting from the low salary struture, limited career mobilit, and lack
of institutional loyalty among many staff), which could make it difficult to retain MOE staff who are
trained under the project. To address this risk, the project would provide salary supplements to key
MOE and project implementation unit (PIU) staff as a stop-gap measure untl the issue of civil
service reform is addressed. A 1982 Presidential Decree which allows government employees
working with international donors to receive salary supplements in excess of the normal civil service
wage scale has facilitated this action.



-36-
5.07        Finally, the absence of coordnation among donors involved in ihe sector could result
in duplication of effort and conflicfting priorities among donors, as weU as confiusion among MOE's
management and staff. To minmize this risk, IDA and UNDP have prWosed, and the Minister has
agreed to, the creation of a technical secruetarat in the office of the Minister to coordinate donor
activities and provide technical and policy analysis to MOE's senior management (see paras. 2.36
and 4.11). The proposal already endorsed by a donors meeting held in early June 1992, is being
financed by UNDP and implemented by MOE. IDA will be the executig agency for UNDP
financing.
C. Ewrmewtal Impac
5.08        The proposed project would yield positive environm    and social benefits by
constructing new schools using safer designs and providing schools wfith better sanitary facilities and
hygienic environments, in line with a program already approved by boti the US and Egyptian
Governments. In addition, curricular advances that promote health and enironmental education
would be supported through the project's teacher training component. The project has been classified
under Environmental Category C.



- 37 -
VI. ACrIONS AGREED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01         To ensure timely implementation of the project, Government assurances and/or
agreement were confirmed at negotiations:
(a)   that MOE shadl obtain the Association's concurrence to the plans for furnishing and
equipping the schools included in the project (para. 3.04);
(b)   the selection of sites for the primary and preparatory schools, to be constructed under
the project, shall be made in accordance with criteria acceptable to MOE and the
Association (para. 3.05);
(c)   that MOE shall ensure, not later than December 31, 1993, that all senior positions in
CDEPI shall be filled by appropriately qualified persons (para. 3.21);
(d)   that MOE shall maintain TCID with adequate resources and facilities until the
completion of the component's objective (para. 3.23), and shall assign to it te
responsibility for the carrying out, in coordination with PIU and CDEPI, of the
measures for institutional development [para. 3.24(a)];
(e)   that an incentive system to retain MOE senior staff trained under the project will be
put into effect [para. 3.24(c)];
(ft) that MOE shall (i) carry out the project-financed studies under terms of reference
satisfactory to MOE and the Association; (ii) ensure, by December 31, 1994, the
completion of such studies and the furnishing, through PIU, to the Association of their
findings and recommendations; and (iii) prepare, in consultation with the Association,
and thereafter carry out a plan of action, based on alternatives consistent with MOE'.
policies, objectives and programs in the education sector (para. 3.29);
(g)   that MOE shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the project (para. 4.08);
(h)   on the detailed project implementation plan (para. 4.17);"
(i)   that procurement procedures to be followed would comply with IDA guidelines (para.
4.18);
a)    that MOE shall ensure the staffng, by December 31, 1993, in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Association, of the four units of GDIST [para. 3.20(e)];
(k)   that MOE shall prepare, through PIU, and furnish to the Association, on a format
agreed upon beteen MOE and the Association, quarterly reports on progress in the
carrying out of the project; and
Mme proet impl_mentaion plan, ageed dudog negotations, includes meumes tbat wil be undertkn bobre project
efciene[efleced in 6.01(c), and G)l.



- 38 -
(I)   that MOE shall conduct, jointly with the Association, by June 30, 1997, or such other
date as the Assocation may agree, a mid-term review of the project.
6.02        As a condition of effectiveness, Government action is needed on the appoitment of
the full-time PIU staff and provision of suitable offices (para. 4.13).
6.03        Recommendation. Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a credit of SDR 40 million to the Government of Egypt.



- 39 -
EXPECI ED COST AND CASH DISBURSEMENT
TO COVER EARTHQUAKE DAMAGES
CASH DISU.
ITEMS AND BASES FOR ESTIMATES                       COST IN USS MILLION                      (1992/93)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (U S S  N )
Sehoots
(a) School bufIdings ihich
collapsed completely.       Total Cost:  193                                                93
(1288 schools at average cost of US$150,000 per school)
(b) Major rep1irs in schools.   Total Cost:  150                                               150
(2546 Schools at average cost of US$59,000 per school)
(c) Minor repairs in schools.   Total Cost:  50                                                 50
Total damaged schools: 6,650
(2816 schools at average cost of US$17,500 per school)
Pubtfe Buitdfnos
Reconstructing conpletely        Total Cost:  120                                               29
collapsed public buildings.      (200 buildings at average cost of US$588,000 per
building)
Antiouities
Restoration of antiquities.      Total Cost:  636                                              136
(212 antiquities at average cost of USS3 million per
unit)
Infrastructure
New housing zones to             Total Cost:  100                                               50
accom odate refugees.
Medical Supplies                    Total Cost:  50                                                50
Direct Cash Compensation            Total Cost:  50                                                50
TOTAL                                           1349                                              608
Total Expected Expenditure                                                                     608
Total Expected Cash Donations                                                                  200
Net Amount Covered by Egyptian Government                                                      408



- 40 -
Am"
RELATED POLICY-ORIENTED STUDIIES: TERMS OF REFERENCE
Teacher Preparation PoHces and Progrms
Justificton
1.          Recent changes in teacher education and training have resulted in the abolishment
of teacher training instiutes (five years after preparatory) for preparing primary teachers and the
requirement of a university degree for all prospective teachers. Universities had to expand their
offerings and capacity to accommodate all preservice teacher education programs. In addition,
faculties of education offer graduates from faculties other than education the opportnity to
qualify as teachers through a General Diploma program. Many of the old teacher training
institutes were converted to "Specialized Colleges of Education" for the preparation/training of
teachers of special subjects such as art, music, physical education, home economics, educational
information, and educational technology. The transformation has been abrupt without proper
stafflng of these specialized institutes resulting in output of relatively low quality. Meanwhile,
practicing teachers were given the opportmity of pursuing a program of certification to the level
of a university degree in education (basic education) through distance education. The preparatory
and secondary teacher training programs that continue to be offered in the faculties of education
vary widely in their quality. The specific needs of the middle or preparatory stage do not seem to
be addressed as teaching in preparatory schools is a temporary measure preceding moving to
secondary level. Clearly, there is a need to examine closely the system of teacher preparation, to
make an inventory and evaluation of the programs and practices, and to make recommendations
for improvement based on a set of priorities.
Purpose and Objectives of the Study
2.          The major purpose of the study is to provide guidelines and operational
recommendations instrumental in improving the quality and efficiency of the preservice teacher
training system and in designing practical actions for policy implementation. Specifically, the
study would examine the teacher education system, identify the strengths and weaknesses of each
type of program, and formulate proposals and recommendations for improvement especially in
relation to:
its overall philosophy, general policies, and organizational strucure and the factors
underlying the dominace of teacher lectring and student memorization in
schools;
the optmum mode of preparation of teachers of the different cycles-primary,
preparatory, and secondary;
the programs of study for each category of teachers;
the practical component of teacher education;
the optimum methods of induction or follow-up of novice teachers during their
first year or two of teaching;



-41 -
An=e 2
the relative costs and efflciency of teacher education;
the supply and demand for teachers in different cycles and subjects and the impact
of teachers' salaries; and
the effectiveness of MOE/university cooperation and coordination in planning for
and implementing teacher education based on needs.
Methodology
3.          In order to realize its objectives, the study team would:
(a)   review instuctional progams with regard to requirements, flexibility, graduation
requiraemnts, regulations governing transfer from one program to another, and
other relevant aspects;
(b)   examine admission policies and repeition, dropout, and graduation data for the
past decade, at all faculties of education and teacher training institutes and tracer
studies involving government employment policies and practices;
(c) review all policies and practices regarding fees, financial incentives relative to
other fields of study, housing and subsistence costs/support;
(d)   gather other data including teachers' salaries as deemed necessary to meet the
objectives of the study; and
(e)   process and analyze all the collected information and preset it with conclusions
and recommendations for improving the system.
4.          It is expected that the study team would collect information through various means
including: survey of the literature and the examination of documents, programs and textbooks;
direct observation of the teaching-learning situation and its setting; interviews or enquiries
involving representative samples of administrators, professors, and students of colleges of
education; interviews with and/or administering questionnaires to directors of education,
inspectors, subject specialists, school principals, and teachers both experienced and recent
graduates; overview of latest recommended practices in different countries both advanced and
comparable to Egypt in socioeconmic stats. The collected data has to be processed and
analyzed in a manner that will lead to sound summaries and conclusions.
Output
5.          In the fial report of the study, which should be both in Arabic and English, the
study team should:
(a)   provide badcound information and describe recent developments and te current
status of teacher preparation in its different categories;



- 42 -
Annex 2
(b)   provide an evaluation including advantages/disadvantages as well as strengths and
weaknesses of the various policies and practices in preparing teachers of the
various cycles and categories;
(c)   analyze trends in admissions policies and practices, the relative quality/potential of
enrolled students, related incentives for study in the field of education as compared
to other fields, and socioeconomic conditions of teachers compared to holders of
other positions;
(d)   present detailed recommendations for improving the various aspects of teacher
education; and
(e)   propose an overall plan of action for improving the system that embodies the
recommendations.
Resources and Required Qualifications
6.          The study would be conducted by a team of foreign and local consultants as
follows:
(a)   One international expert and two local experts should be in charge of the study.
The international expert should have had experience in similar assignments and
should be well-versed in the field of teacher education and research. It is
preferable if one of the two local experts has a background in a subject-matter area
while the other is specialized in the field of education. Both should have had wide
experience in teacher training with one of them involved in the issues of primary
tacher education. They should be known for open-mindedness and objective
outlook. All three experts should have high degrees at the level of the doctorate.
In selcctng the experts, consideration should be given to experience in teacher
training, in conducting evaluation studies, research methodology,and in
leading/administering a research group and study.
(b)   Four research associates who could be recent graduates (relatively young)
preferably with a high degree, at least two from external universities. They should
be involved in teacher training representing different categories - primary,
preparatory, secondary and specialized institutes.
Budget
1 International expert(s) residing in Egypt   6 person-months
2 Local experts                        12 person-months
4 Research associates                  24 person-months
Local travel and expense:
Typing
Translation
Duplication



- 43 -
An2
Counterpart team:   Higher Consultative Committee to Discuss Issues of Teacher
Preparation, Training and Welfare
Seminar attended by key MOE and university officials and representatives of the World
Bank and donor agencies. The total budget limit is about US$70,000 equivalent.
Starting Date and Duration
7.          The study should be initiated at the time of project effectiveness and the final
report completed within 18 months. The seminar to discuss the report should be held within 6
moiths after the completion of the final report. A review of the progress of the study based on a
preliminary progress report and involving the Higher Consultative Committee for Teacher
Preparation, Training and Welfare and IDA representatives should be carried out about nine
months after inition.
RESOURCE MOBILIZATION FOR FINANCING BASIC EDUCATION
Justification
8.    The MOE is faced with providing education to a population that has been rapidly
increasing over the last several decades. Further, the Government has committed to provide
basic education to everyone. To continue to expand the resources available while maintaining
what already exists requires that significant resources be invested in the sector. However, there
is Little evidence that the resources required can be provided by the central government. To
explore possible options to compensate for this lack of funds, it is critical that an objective study
of the current system be conducted to identify inefficiencies and recommend more effective and
efficient ways to use available resources and identify alternative sources for resource
mobilization.
9.    The share of the central Government expenditure on the education sector has increased
over the last decade. Allocations for education have increased from 7.6 percent of the
Government's recurrent budget in 1980-81 to 13.9 percent in 1989-90. Similarly, the share of
the GovernmenT's investment expenditures for education have increased from 3.6 percent in
1980-81 to 6.3 percent in 1991-92. Yet, spending on education relative to GDP has declined
over the last decade. In 1980-81, public expenditure on education was 3.1 percent of GDP,
whereas over the next decade this share declined significantly. Chapter 10 of the "Public Sector
Investment in Human Resources" (Green Cover) addresses the public financing of education.
10.         There are two principal issues related to the allocation of resources: (i) lack of
coordination in how investment and recurrent budget decisions are made for the sector as a
whole; and (ii) inappropriate intrasectoral allocation.
(a)   Budget Decisions. Investment decisions are made by the Ministry of Planning as
part of the Five Year Plan, while maintenance decisions are made by the Ministry
of Planning and the MOE according to the recurrent budget resources. The
inefficiency lies in the lack of coordination during the decision making process,
and the limited consideration of the impact additional investment in new facilities



- 44-
may have on the recurrent budget allocations. This lack of coordingion reflects a
need for better planning for the sector. To maimize efficiency and effectiveness,
decisions on the allocation of the recurrent budget must Include a consideration of
planned capital investment.
(b)   Intrasectoral Resource Allocaton. In tems of the recurrent budget, teachers'
salaries coninue to conume a greater share (averaging 70 percent for 198687 to
1990-91). Increasing the share for teachers' salaries leaves inadequate resources
for supplies and maintenance facilides. Prom 1980-81 to 1989-90, real per student
recurrent spending on items other than teachers' salaries in basic education fell
from LE 7.14 to LE 2.371 Without sufficient funds for maintenance, buildings
and equipment fall into disrepair. New schools must be built to replace those
facilities that are beyond repair, and therefore place an additional burden on
investment expenditure.
(c)   Despite a higher rate of social return for investment in primary education, total
spending per basic education student continues to decline in relation to spending
per higher education student. Total spending per student in 1990-91 was only LE
250 for basic education versus LE 2100 for higher education. The share of
recurrent budget resources for higher education from the MOE and the MOHE has
increased from 33 percent in 1980-81 to 37 percent in 1989-90. Investment
expenditure, specified in the Third Five-Year Plan, is equally divided between
preuniversity and university education, despite the fact that in 1990-91, 94 percent
of the students were enrolled at the preuniversity level (53 percent at the basic
education level) and 6 percent of the students were enrolled at the university level.
It is unlikely that additional funds will become available in the short term for the
education sector. Yet resources must be provided to meet the increased demands on the
sector arising from increased access and population growth. To address these demands
and improve the existing system, the MOE should assess the efficiency in the provision of
educational services, and define alternative sources of financing. The Resource
Mobilization for Financing Basic Education study will support a close examination of the
existing resources available for basic education and the utizaion of these resources, as
well as provide recommendations for the generation of alternative resources.
Purpose and Objectives of the Study
11. The purpose of this proposed study is to take a critical look at the manner in which
resources for basic education are generated and allocated and provide practical recommendations
for mobilizing additional resources for the sector. The study would examine the policies and
decision making processes for the allocation of resources both for education as a whole and basic
education in particular. Further, the study would identify cost saving measures to address
existng inefficiencies within the sector. The study would consider:
J1    Draft of the "Public Sector Investment in Human Resources - Egypt" report; the World
Bank; September 1992.



- 45 -
Annx2
(a)   the mmner in which resources are generated;
(i)   the mechanisms and policies by which resources are allocated to the
education sector;
(ii)   the mechanisms and policies by which resources are allocated
intrasectorally, including issues of geographical equity, distribution by
level of education, and investment and recurrent budget allocations;
(iiI)  trends in resource allocation, including the role of the government, the
private sector, student fees, informal fees, etc.
(iv)   the supply and demand for education at different levels of schooling, and
the indirect costs to parents (private tutoring);
(v)   the relative costs and efficiency of the delivery of services at the different
levels of schooling;
(vi)   other potential resources for financing basic education and concrete
suggestions for their mobilization;
(b)   Methodology. To realize these objectives, the study tm would:
(i)   review existing financial resources available to the education sector and the
basic education sub-sector in particular;
(ii)   review resource allocation procedures and assess the efficiency and
effectiveness of these procedures. Resources to be considered include both
fiscal, material, and human resources (e.g. the assignment of teachers);
(iii)   gather other data as deemed necessary to meet the objectives of the study;
(iv)   process and analyze the information collected and present it with
conclusions and recommendations for improving the efficiency of the
allocaion mechanisms, propose alternative sources of financing for the
basic education sector and how these resources might be mobilized, and
suggest cost saving proposals for the education sector.
12.   The study team should benefit from the fndings and recommendations of The World
Bank Report (Green Cover) "Public Sector Investing in Human Resources"
(a) Output. The final report, which should be made available in both Arabic and
English, should:
(i)    provide backgrund information on the current status of financing the
education sector and the basic education sub-sector;



- 46 -
Annex 2
(ii)   provide an evaluation including strengths and weaknesses of the various
policies and practices for the allocation of resources for education and the
basic education sub-sector;
(ii)   analyze the cost efficiency and effectiveness of the utilization of resources
and propose suggestions for improving the system;
(iv)   identify the existing inefficiencies, including staff distribution, the lack of
coordination in the decision making process, etc.;
(v)   present detailed recommendations for mobilizing resources for basic
education, including the role of the private sector and student fees and the
capacity for cost recovery programs;
(vi)   propose an overall plan of action for improving the financing of basic
education that embodies the recommendations.
(c)   Resources and Required Qualifications
(d)   Budget
3 locally hired international and national experts   12 person-months
4 research associates                        20 person-months
Local travel and expense
Typing
Translation
Duplication
Counterpart team: Representatives from MOE, MOP, MOF
Seminar attended by key MOE and university officials and representatives of the
World Bank and donor agencies.
The total budget limit is US$70,000 equivalent
(e)   Starting Date and Duration. The study should be initiated at the time of project
effectiveness and the final report completed within eighteen months. The seminar
to discuss the report should be held within six months after the completion of the
final report. A review of the progress of the study based on a preliminary
progress report involving IDA representatives should be carried out six months
after initiation.



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR THE POLICY-ORIENTED STUDIES COMPONENT
Actfvity            Pre-effectiveness         Year I             Year 2              Year 3             Year 4              Year 5             Year 6
l 01~~~~~~a   02   CO_  0 4   1  12                                      3  14    1  12  13  14  1   12   3  14    I    2 13  14  _                    3 14
Teacher preparation
poticies and progrs,.-                                                                  - -       - - -          - -                                       
Resource mobilization for
finamcing basic education.-                                                             -    -- -                - -      - - -- - -                         -    -
Discussion of findings and
recounendations.-                                                                            - - - -             - -      - -       -- - -                  -     -
Agree on an action plan.
1%,



- 48 -
Annex 3
LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE USAID BASIC EDUCATION PROJECTS
A. Institutional Strengthening: Policy Analysis, Planning and EMIS
Background
1.         In 1986 USAID arranged for the Basic Research and Implementation in
Developing Education Systems Project (BRIDGES), directed by the Harvard Institute for
International Development, to work with the Ministry of Education to identify ways to improve
the management and organization of the education system. In 1988, Dr. Fathi Sourour, Minister
of Education, presented a new five-year plan for educational reform. That reform was aimed at a
much improved quality of basic education, relevant to Egypt's modern requirements, while
simultaneously expanding access to achieve universal participatiort.
2.          The objective of the BRIDGES project was to work cooperatively with the MOE
toward the development of improved educational planning, an educational management
information systems (EMIS), and policy research and analysis.
3.          Following a series of studies, senior management training workshops, and
preparatory consultations, a major proposal was prepared in 1988 for an integrated approach to
planning and policy analysis in keeping with the Minister's vision, and the willingness of USAID
to support a major policy reform to improve the quality of Egyptian basic education.
4.          Detailed specifications for the structure, functions and staffing of a comprehensive
Planning Unit were developed. The Unit was to operate under the Deputy Minister of Education,
and report to a Council chaired by the Minister, with Cabinet Ministers of Finance, Planning,
Manpower and Training, and representatives of other governmental and nongovernmental
agencies. It was originally to be based outside of the Ministry of Education offices operating as
an independent institute, drawing professional staff at the level of university faculty. The
rationale for that strategy was that this would be the only way to attract really capable,
professional level staff; and that the new policy needed fresh thinking, vision, dedication and
technical expertise.
5.          The Education Planning Unit was to have two general sections: Physical Planning
and Educational Planning. Under the Education Planning section there were Directorates for
Policy Analysis, Research, Evaluation, Educational Forecasting, Resource Management &
Financing, and Technical Services. An EMIS was to be would be developed to support the
functioning of these Directorates.
6.          However, this Educational Planning Unit never functioned as designed. The
higher level Council that was to provide policy direction was not formed, and high quality staff
were not recruited. In addition, the new Unit had no operational links to the Ministry of
Education, and therefore no access to primary sources of information, and no influence over
planning decisions. The new Planning Unit was resented and its work resisted by the established
offices of the Ministry. The Minister decided, in early 1990, to create a new Division within the
MOE, headed by an undersecretary, called the Central Division of Educational Planning and
Information (CDEPI). This Division brought together under one head the previously separate



-49-
Ane3
Directorates of School Planning and Follow-up (which prepares the Investment Budget for the
MOB) and the school statistics directorate (now the Information and Computer Services
Directorate). A new Research Dectorate was also formed under the new CDEPI.
USAID Asscitance
7.          USAID provided both project assistance and budgetary assistance, first to the
Educational Planning Unit, and then to the CDEPI. The intent of this assistance continued to be
to tengten policy analysis, planning, and management in support of the educational reform
effort. The budgetary assistance provided approximately US$250,000 per year for supplementary
payments to up to 100 staff in the Ministry involved with the project. It also provided
allowances to members of standing committees reviewing training needs and the development of
the EMIS. The Government was to cover an increasing proportion of the budgetary support
costs under the project (provided for the first years through 'in-kind' expenditures), up to 50
percent by 1992 and 100 percent by 1996. The project assistance provided up to four long-term
advisors (Policy Analysis, Economics of Education, EMIS and Training), short-term
consultancies, hardware and software for establishing the EMIS at headquarters and in 27
governorate offices, and a training program.
S.          A recent evaluation of the USAID assistance to Basic Education has found that:
(a)   the Information and Computer Services Directorate (ICSD) has: developed a
tecnical team of systemns analysts, programmers and trainers; created a much
improved information system for processing and utilizing school data; installed a
VAX minicomputer and PC work stations and completely renovated the ICSD
computer center; trained staff on relational database software; installed
microcomputers, custom database applications in Arabic, and trained staff in 27
governorates. Tasks ahead include the expansion of the information system and its
utilization for management and planning; and the broadening and strengthening of
policy analysis and planning;
(b)   the Research Directorate recruited and trained approximately 15 staff who are
engaged in the analysis of a large scale national survey which assesses student
achievement in four subjects and relates this to teacher activities. A second
survey, linked to the first, examines the cost, prevalence and nature of private
tutoring, and families' willingness to pay. In spite of this impressive start, there is
a real question about the sustainable capacity of this Directorate to carry out
policy-related research; and
(c)   the mandate for CDEPI, which is to develop strategic and coordinated plans for
investment and management in basic education, is still unrealized. The
organizational and technical capacity to obtain and utilize information on human
resources, costs and fnancing, physical facilities, and student achievement is
embryonic.
9.          Furthermore, there has been little substantive institutional impact on the
improvement of policy analysis, planning and management in the Ministry of Education. While
it is true that there has been development of technical staff to handle EMIS functions, both at



- 50 -
Annex 3
central and governorate levels, to date, there are few examples where EMIS infonnation has
improved management practices, strategic planning or policy analysis.
Constrats
10.         The functions of management and planning necessary to elaborate on,
operationalize and implement a reform of basic education are very different from those for
maninaning an existing system. The Ministry of Education is structured to perform maintenance
operations for an existing system. The procedures for carrying out these functions are well
established, and staff are evaluated by their attention to these procedures. Due to a long-standing
practice of employment guarantees for university graduates, there are many more employees than
are necessary to perform routine office functions. This is coupled with extremely low wages so
that there are virtually no incentives to improve management efficiency. The main characteristics
of the decision-making processes in the Ministry of Education reflect this Institutional setting.
(a)   Educational Planning in the Ministry is essentially a system of fiscal control and
is not concerned with policy analysis, research and long-range planning. There
are no sectoral planning guidelines to MOE from the Ministry of Planning. At the
MOE level plans are simply collations of governorate and departmental requests
that are sent, with fLxed costing, on to the Ministry of Planning. The Ministry of
Planning in consultation with the Ministry of Finance balances these requests with
other Ministry submissions, and after negotiations in Cabinet, a budget allocation
is handed down to the MOE, typically about 60 percent of what is requested.
Thus, there is no external pressure to improve the MOE planning process, which
depends more on the negotiating power of the Minister than the quality of the
analysis or information provided.
Annual planning for staff (teachers), books, and school repairs, are
handled by separate Directorates in the Ministry, each of which collect,
process and utilize information from the schools, through the governorate
offices. As long as the MOE, and indeed the entire government's,
planning procedures depend on political advocacy rather than analysis and
reliable, appropriate information, improving those procedures and fte
management of resources is problematic.
(b)   Perhaps the most salient organizational feature of the Ministry is its bureaucratic
hierarchy, characterized by a top-down autocratic approach to decision making.
High-level policies and decisions are often arrived at without making use of
information and research available, and even without consultation with the officials
who will implement the decisions. This contributes to an organizational climate
where senior officials use information less to support decision making than to
confirm decisions that have been made.
(c)   Despite almost thirty years of government sponsored initiatives to decentralize
administrative authority and to give governorate and local level officials more
autonomy, the national decision-making process is still highly centralized.
Nonetheless, the governorate and local level officials are much closer to the
schools than headquarters, and often know, frst hand, pressing needs and
priorities.



- 51 -
AmLex 3
(d)   As a corollary of the bureaucratic hierarchy and centralization, the Ministry Is also
characterized by the lack of effective coordination across division and directorate
lines. Each department tends to function as a completely separate component of
the organization, with minimal linkages to other units. Each major department at
headquarters employs a separate system of annual data collection. Although this
consumes an enormous amount of time and energy, and duplicates efforts at the
school and local levels, It is tolerated because of the surplus of employees and the
lack of overall management coordination. It does mean that vital tasks related to
teacher supervision, dissemination of new curriculum, and technical support
services are sacrificed to administrative, accounting functions.
(e)   The government personnel system, as it operates within the Ministry, does not
encourage innovation or change. Rather, it rewards those who follow established
procedures, and remain loyal to those above them. This system functions so that
those who are fially promoted to top leadership positions at the end of their
careers, only stay in those positions for a short period (on average about 18
months) before retirement. In this setting, the utilization of information to raise
questions about policy or management is not a route to promotion. Thus, the
fundamental assumptions about the linkage between effective management and
information does not apply in the Ministry of Education as it currently functions.
(t)   One of the central constraints to improving the quality of planning and
management of basic education is the systemwide belief that overcrowding and
lack of schools is the central problem. Senior officials seem convinced that
building classrooms is the panacea for the ills of the school system, so that
concerns about overall strategic planning-related to the curriculum, the quality of
instruction, teacher in-service training, school leadership-are not a priority. This
general belief constrains efforts to improve coordination, management, and the
development and utilization of a comprehensive information system.
Implications for World Bank Basic Education Project
11.         A starting point for improving the quality of planning and management in the
Ministry of Education is the commitment for educational policy reform including such issues as
the access to education (including access for girls and difficult-to-reach populations), school
efficiency, quality of the curriculum and instruction, pupil assessments, teacher training, and
school leadership. The government has made it clear, both through policy decisions (allocating a
larger proportion of the budget to basic education in the Five-Year Plan), and through legislation,
that it places priority on expanding access to and improving the quality of basic education.
12.         An effective strategy will ensure that the ownership of the process of innovation
and change is with the Egyptian government. It will therefore start with development of a
management plan, based on the consultations of senior staff within operational divisions of the
Ministry, on the implementation of the government Five-year Education Plan. A central feature
of the management plan would be the in-service training of senior staff and mid-level staff of the
Ministry of Education, and involve appropriate key staff from the Ministry of Planning. The
training must be provided at the governorate level as well, since any improvement will involve
the decentralization of planning and management functions.



- 52 -
Annex 3
13.         Staff management training as a strategy for increasing institutional capacity for
planning and management would seek to cut across vertical and horizontal institutional barriers to
improve plamnig and operational decisions. A key to this is a consistent message from the top
level of Ministty leadership that analysis and information are expectd from subordinates in
formulating mangemt decisions.
14.         The development and use of the EMIS will reflect the specific requirements for
infomaion to assist in planning and management in the directorates (and governorates). This
begins at a rudimentary level, which concentrates on Issues of class size and physical facilities.
But it should develop as the information needed for strategic planning grows. For example, a
national system for in-service teacher training will need to target teachers by level, subject area
and qualifications-and will need to monitor their involvement in training and the impact that
training has on pupils' attainment and learning achievement.
15.      . To summarize, one of the basic lessons learned from the USAII) assistance to
educational planning in Egypt is that a focus on developing an infonnation system will not, in
itself, improve educational plaming and management. A broader strategy is needed which builds
Egyptian ownership of the process of change; takes account of the nature of the MOE as an
organization; and focuses on ways by which policy intents can be reflected in management
behavior.
B. Curriculum Development and Testing
Badcground: Establishment of the CCIMD and the NCEEE
16.         The concept of creating a specialized center in charge of curriculum and materials
development began in 1988, and was a part of the then Minister's overall education reform
program. A number of studies had pointed out the short-comings and pitfalls of the tehnology
and procedures of curriculum development in Egypt. In particular, the process did not
incorporate qualit design, editing, or field testing, and it was ad hoc, organized only by subject
panels. The analyses recommended establishing an organization to take charge of curriculum
reform in Egypt. The creation of the Center for Curriculm and Instructional Matrals
Design (CCIMD) was a major project of the plan for educational reform in Egypt.
17.         CCIMD was created initially in 1989 as a division of the National Council for
Educational Researcn and Development (NCERD). A Ministerial Decree in June 1990 defined
* its mission as the Ministry's source of curriculum materials, without clarifying its institutional
status with the Ministry of Education and its parent organization, the NCERD. Most CCIMD
staff members are seconded from NCERD or are university lecturers or graduate students who
are on limited term contracts without competitive salaries or benefits. The decree stated that
CCIMD was to:
(a)   plan, design, develop, field test and modify, produce, evaluate and revise curricula
and instructional materials in all subject matters at all levels of pre-university
education; and



- 53 -
Annex 3
(b) train trainers of teachers in newly developed curriculum and instructional materials
to enable them in turn to train teachers on a systematic basis.
18.         To assist the CCIMD in accomplishing its mission, USAID contracted with the
Educational Development Center, Inc. to provide technical assistance, training and procurement
support. USAID also provided budgetary support, directly to the new center, for salary
supplements and equipment: word processing, desk-top publishing, and photocopying.
19.         The accomplishments of CCIMD are considerable, given the uncertainty of its
institutional status. It is organized into functional units (design, preparation, technology, field
testing, follow-up, and training). The quality control process includes: a lengthy design stage
during which issues of integration, sequencing, age appropriateness, and learning environment
are taken into account; specific quality control criteria for authors and editors; interactive editing
during and after the writing process; preparation of a teachers' guide to accompany textbooks; a
team approach to design and ?authoring?; a field test phase; and a guide for teacher trainers.
20.         The first materials developed by CCIMD were for an innovative course, grades 1
to 3 in Enviromental Studies This course replaced previous 7 materials in Science, Social
Studies, Health, and Home Economics. It contains many useful suggestions to teachers, and
promotes a child-entered activity based pedagogy. However, the shift from teacher-entered to
child-centered learning is a major undertaking and requires a coordinated long-term effort,
particularly in-service teacher training. Unfortunately, the new curriculum materials are
distributed nationally without this training, except at the schools used in the trial phase.
21.         CCIMD now has completed scope and sequence charts for all subjects in primary
and preparatory grades, and has completed revised curriculum materials for grades 1-3 in four
core subject areas (Arabic, Mathematics, Environmental Studies and Art). A schedule for
developing, writing, testing, revising, printing, training teachers and distribution for all primary
school subjects is worked out through 1996.
22.         The National Center for Educational Evaluation and Examinations (NCEEE)
was a second new institution established as a means of realizing policy objectives to reform
education. The NCEEE was created by Presidential Decree in 1991 with the following mission:
(i) to establish the standards, norms and criteria for evaluating all levels of education; (ii) to
prepare examinations, including the Preparatory, Secondary and University Entrance
examinations; (iii) to regulate the quality of all examinations; (iv) to conduct research on
evaluation methods and instruments; (v) to train educators and administrators in the use of
examinations; and (vi) to provide consultations for universities and other institutions.
23.         The NCEEE mandate to improve pre-university education through improved
testing, training and research rests on the assumption that better testing will encourage improved
curriculum and instruction. But it is also true that effective testing itself must be based on clear
and systematic curriculum objectives. Prior to the establishment of the NCEEE there were a
number of consultancies, supported through USAID and the British Council/ODA to examine the
feasibility and design for the Center. Subsequently the Center has created two branches:
Administration and Finance, and Academic Departnents. The Departments are Test
Development, Research, Dissemination and Training, and Operations and Information. Formal
linkages have been established through the NCEEE Board with CCIMD, the General Division for
In-service Teacher Training (ODIST) and the National Council for Educational Reseach and



-54-
Annex 
Development (NCERD). Informal linkages with CCIMD are effecewd through membership of
curriculum staff on most of the 36 test development committees of the Testing Center. Also,
NCEEE staff serve in various capacities within CCIMD.
24.         NCEEE is now undertaking the revision of national achievement tests, including
questions that measure students' reasoning and critical thinking abilities. Pilot governorates are
being targeted for developing and trial testing.grade 4 assessmerts in literacy, numeracy and
general knowledge.
25.         The NCEEE resources in personmel, finances, and equipment are limited. At
present, staffing levels are short of what is required for the Center to be fully operaional. Since
many of NCEEE's senior staff are university faculty who continue to teach and have other
responsibilities, institution building has been problematic. A large new building has now been
completed at El Moqattam and is being funished and equipped largely through government
financing. USAID support to NCEEE has been limited to short-term consultancies.
Issues
26.         The central issue facing the Curriculum Center and the NCEEE is their
insiutional capability to fulfill their missions. CCIMD's uncertain organizational status in
relation to the NCERD and the Ministry of Education has compromised its ability to recruit and
retain qualified staff, to acquire space, to coordinate with Ministry Directorates and wih the
field. It is unitkely that the CCIMD can fully attend to its mission unless its status is further
clarified, enabling it to attract and hold professional staff.
27.         Yet even the establishment of CCIMD as a national center (established through
Presidental rather than Ministerial decree lke the NCEEE and NCERD), would not guarantee its
instituional effectiveness. The NCEEE has not, as yet, been able to maintain a consistently high
level of full-time professional staff for its departments, although its record on this is better than
the CCIMD.
28.         A second, broader issue, has to do with the overall impact that the work of
CCIMD and NCEEE is likely to have on the quality of classroom learning. While it is critical
that both curriculum and testingJassessment be developed in coordination, the third element in an
overall strategy for improving instruction must be the professional in-service training of teachers.
Without a major and sustained in-service program, the new curriculum materials and assessments
will not have much of an effect on teacher classroom behavior.
29.         USAID did anticipate this issue and intended to provide assistance to an in-service
teacher training program in the proposed Basic Education II program, which was to support the
nationwide disseminaion of new curriculum materials.
Implications for the World Bank Basic Education Program
30.         With the advances underway in the area of curriculum development for primary
grades in all core subjects, ihe instructional processes in the classroom needed to transmit this
curricula requires a large scale and sustained in-service training program for teachers. This
training is a key component in the process of basic education reform.



- ss -
31.         Although the inOtutional framework for CCIMD and NCEEE is still frail,
signiffcant inestments have been made to introduce innovative, professionally sound practices in
the design and development of curriculum materials and student assessments. In the process of
implementation for the World Bank fInanced Basic Education Project, strategies for Strenh
these institutions, and building on the work they have initiated, should be encouraged. The in-
service training component in particular will build on the work started under CCIMD, and should
ensure effective, systematic coordination both with the Curriculum Center and with NCEEE.
C. School Construction and Maintenance
Positive Aspects
(a)   School mapping as a condition for building proved to be a valuable exercise as it
served to ensure that schools were built in appropriate sites.
(b)   Defining and implementing the criteria for site selection again allowed for the
project to target a particular segment of the population.
(c)   Approaching the project on a pilot basis allowed for the lessons learned to be
incorporated and therefore improved the project over years.
(d)   Strong relations were established among the implementing agencies to faciliate
smooth implementation at both the central & local levels.
(e)   Establishing a pricing control system at NIB facilitated the review of contracts
process.
(f)   Establishing a soil testing review medcnism at NIB served as a second check
point for the assessment of something as fundamental as the foundation of the
school.
(g)   A niemism was put in place and efforts made to ensure that project funds were
made available in a timely manner.
(h)   Icentives were provided to motivate and retain employees of project implementing
agencies.
(i)   Mechanisms were established for continuous evaluation and feedback.
Negative Aspects
(a)   Until July 1991, fimds for maiance were scarce and therefore little
maintence activity for facilities or equipment was provided.
(b)   Until maitenance became a priority, there were few maintenance plans, programs,
and systms.



-~56-
(c)   Lack of monitoring of mainteance needs (until December 1990).
(d)   Lack of some details in the implementation drawings especally in the toilets area
reaued in early problems and deterioration of these areas (a concern which has
since been addressed and included in GAEB and Physical Planning Unit's
drwings).
(e)   Contractors were not prequalified until the last phase of the project.
(t)   In some instces, poor quality materials were used.
(g) In some districts, supervision of the construction by the local engineers was poor
and inconsistent.
(h)   Teachers were inadequately trained in the use of equipment provided.
Equipment
32.         In the area of equipment, it is worth mentioning that the USAID-fnanced Basic
Education Project procured US$40 million worth of equipment, audio-visual aids and tools which
were distibuted to more than 15,000 primary and preparatory schools. These tools and
equipment included: slide projectors, overhead projectors, sewing machines, stoves, poultry
eupment, carpentry tools, electricity tools, home maintenance tools, horticulture tools, maps,
science transparencies and charts, science mobile labs, etc. Effective utilization of these tools
and equipment was not achieved in some areas because of:
(a) the lack of training for teachers in the use of equipment;
(b)   lack of electricity in some schools which received some electrical equipment;
(c)   lack of operational budget to buy materials, such as cloth for sewing machines and
wood for carpentry necessary for utilization of equipment;
(d) fear of damaging the equipment, especially relatively expensive pieces, such as
overhead slide projectors. This fear resulted from a lack of training and the policy
that teachers pay for any damage to the equipment; and
(e)   lack of storage areas in additon to lack of maintenance instructions.
Important remarks
(a) Redistribution of USAID-financed equipment should take place to improve its
utilization.
(b) Training of teachers in equipment utilization is essential.
(c)   The problem of fear of damage of equipment by tachers must be resolved.



.7*
(d)   Equipment and matials tht are not needed any longer as a result of curriculum
dcn  can be used in summer camp actvites and libraries (nmps and globes for
example).
(e)   M          and repais as well as operation budgt should be adequate to cover
needs.
Contribuions by Lnal Com mu
33.         Under tie USAMD Basic Education Project, local conmmnities donated sites for
construction of schools in most cases. In the other cases, stes were owned by either cenal or
local goverment. The acqWsition of land was a prequsite for constructing a school in a
community. Not only did it alow for the project to then build more schools Oand costs are an
esmated 20 percen of constuction costs), but also demonstted he communities int  in
taking an active role to see that their children wre ducated. In addition to contributng land,
some communties donated boundary walls. Under the USAID project, more than 700 boundary
walls (out of 1900 schools) were built up by localities.
34.         In addition, more ton LE 3 million were collected from about 300 communities
for maintamig schools financed under the project. These fiuds were deposited into interest
bearing accounts and will be used specifically for communities wich collected them (each
community separately).



- 58 -
Anex 4
SCHOOL CONSRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE COMPONENT
1.          The following detailed component description is based upon IDA discussions with
representatves of MOE, the General Authority for Educational Buildings (GAEB) and USAID.
In addition, fleld visits to observe school conditions and to meet with staff of GAEB's branch
offices were made to Giza and Sharkeya governorates.
A. Site Selection Criteria
2.          The target governorates for school construction and mainenance have been
selected according to the criteria provided below.
General Selection Criteria for Target Governorates
3.          The proposed project cannot address the school construction needs of MOE on a
national level. However, the project would increase its effectiveness by focusing on a limited
number of governorates (seven). The selection of those governorates was based on objective
criteria, with the premise that other governorates would receive similar attention either from
mure IDA projects or from other international development agencies. The following selection
criteria were used in choosing the target Governorates:
(a)   Governorates where the enrollment ratio of basic school-aged children is
significantly below the national average;
(b) Governorates where the enrolment ratio of basic school-aged girls is significantly
below the national average;
(c)   Governorates where the incidence of double and triple shifts in basic schools is
significantly higher than the national average;
(d) Governorates where overcrowding in basic schools is significantly greater than the
national average.
Site Selection Criteria for the Construction of New Schools
4.          MOE has requested that about one half of the total number of schools to be built
under the proposed IDA-assisted project be primary schools and that the other half allow for
coeducational preparatory schools where acceptable (generally in nrral areas) and otherwise
provide equally for preparatory schools for boys and for girls. The final number of schools
would depend on the location of the schools (since urban schools tend to be larger than rural
schools), and on the cost of each school (which has been increasing faster than the rate of
inflaion). MOE's proposed standard primary school consists of two classes per grade level plus
one class for repeaters and two classes for kindergarten, for a total of 13 classrooms (MOE
expects to return to six Primary School grade levels in 5 or 6 years). MOE's standard
Preparatory School consists of three classes per grade level plus one class for repeat  for a total



- 59 -
Annex 4
of 10 classrooms. The project would allocate fiuds for an equal kiumber of classrooms in both
urban and rural settings, in accordance with the following selection criteria.
(a)   Rura Locations. For the selection of new school sites in rural locations, the
same criteria were adopted as had been utilized by MOE for the USAID Basic
Education construction program:
(i)    where the female enrollment ratio is below national average;
(ii)    where the nearest existing school is over 2 kilometers distant from another
school;
(iii)   where overcrowding is deemed severe; and
(iv) where existing buildings are clearly substandard.
Furthermore, existing schools that are overcrowded or that operate on double or
triple shifts, and have sufficiently large sites to permit the construction of
additional buildings, would be considered for the construction of extensions:
(b)   Urban Locations. In urban locations, the following criteria was applied for the
selection of replacement school sites:
(i)   school sites where school buildings have had to be abandoned and torn
down due to the dangerous condition of the existing structures and where
these closings have caused extreme overcrowding in surrounding schools;
and
(Hi)   rented school buildings which are clearly substandard and in dangerous
physical condition and for which alternative government-owned sites have
been identified for the construction of replacement schools.
B. Cost Estimates
5.          The proposed component would include the following:
(a)   Construction of about 240 primary and preparatory Schools (with the actual
number to be determined on the basis of size of schools selected, cost of
construction at time of appraisal and total amount of the IDA credit). The
preliminary costs have been estimated on the basis of recent GAEB cost figures
(primary schools at LE 105 per square meter and preparatory schools at a lump
sum of LE 600,000 per school; in view of the across-the-board 20 percent price
Increases since the October 1992 earthquake, construction costs went up
proportionately).
(b)   Traiing of about 1200 maintenance workers and technicians: GAEB proposed
the following training



- 60 -
Annex 4
Estimated Cost                                US$0.300 M
(c)   Te ical Asssace and Tla1Ig to strengthen the intiuonal capacities of the
MOE technical unit and GAEB:
Specalized Training Abroad of MOE Archis and
Engine  (1 of each/year, 5 years): 542x9,000    US$0.090 M
Speciized Training Abroad of GAEB Archiects and
Enginee  (1 of ach/year, 5 years): Sx2x9,000 =  US$o.090 M
Matrials Tesdng Laboratory In GAEB:
GAEB Materials Testng Lab:                  US$0.300 M
Special Studies by Experts:
Study to help establish a sustanable program for
prevenive building m mce:                    US$0.020 M
Study to identify alternrive mea  to ensure the
necessary funding to put the Preventive
Building Maintenance Program into eff:ct:   US$0.020 M
C. EeU  Pi
Genal CMi Works Poicy   so  ili   of CDEPI
6.          All policy matters related to civil work shall be the sole responsibiity of MOE,
and its agent, CDEPI. These responsibilities shall inclde the folowing (among others):
(a)   The collcdon of educational data regrding curricula, students, teachers,
administatos, schools and the communities they serve, and the entry of these data
into MOE's database on which national educational planning and strategies are to
be based (computer coding for the physical hacilies is to be compatible with
GAEB's identification system to permit automatic enty of GAEB's school data
into MOE's dbase and vise versa);
(b) Ihe establishment and periodic updating of national educational policies, planning
objectives and strategies, and thir translation into civil works execution programs;
(c)   In coordination wih GAEB: the establishmet and periodic updating of national
school planning and design standard, the adherence during project implemention
to these same stadrds, and paicipion with GAEB in the connuing search to
provide the maximm qualt and quatty of new and upgaded clasrooms for the
least jusfiable expense (cost-effective invesmnt for optmized space udlizaion).



- 61 -
Annex
7.          In order for CDEPI to be able to carry out the above general civil works policy
responsibilities, it is essential that it build up its technical expertise capable of assuming those
responsibilities. lhis technical expertise would assist CDEPI's Planning Unit In: targeting new
school locations and evaluating the suitability of newly identified sites (perhaps in random
samples); participafting in GAEB's periodic review and updating of MOE's design standards
originally prepared by MOE's Physical Planning Unit (which is being phased out); reviewing
GAEB's detailed design work (to confirm that it fully responds to MOE's design criteria);
par-iciping in bid reviews and contract award meetings (representing CDEPI); and attending
practical and final completion meetings on behalf of MOE.
Genea  Civil Works Execution Responsibilities of GAEB
8.          The following matters related to the execution of civil works activities shall be the
responsibility of GAEB, subject to review and acceptance by CDEPI on behalf of MOE. These
execution responsibilities shall include, among others:
(a)   The establishment and periodic updating of a database concerning the physical
condition of primary and preparatory school buildings which can be shared with
CDEPI's database (this will require coordination with CDEPI to develop a
computer coding system that is compatible with both databases); priority attention
is requested for the Governorates selected for the proposed IDA project;
(b) The detailed design and preparation of tender documents for the construction of
new schools and for the extension and rehabilitation of existing schools, by
adapting MOE's standard plans to specific conditions of site and building in
accordance with civil works completion schedules defined by CDEPI on behalf of
MOE;
(c)   In coordination with CDEPI: the application and periodic updating of national
school planning and design standards, and the adherence during project
implementation to these same standards, with GAEB providing the physical facility
anput; (when GAEB wants to initate a change in a planning or a design standard,
the proposed change should be developed in coordination with MOE's technical
unit).
9.          In order to minimize the potential for misprocurement, inernational construction
procedures prescnbe separation between the agencies which draw up design and technical
stanards; prepare building designs and construction documents; have primary control over the
tendering process, maie final tenderer selections and award the construction contract; supervise
construction; direct practical and final completion inspections. In order to avoid appearances of
conflict of interest (or worse), these steps should not all be carried out by the same agency.
Specific Civil Works Identifiaion Responsibilities of CDEPI
(a)   Prepare a School Map for each Governorate as it exists today and as MOE
demnes it should be, and with GAEB update this Map annually with new data
for each school;             ,



- 62 -
Annex 4
(b)   On the basis of needs idenndfied through the School Mapping exercise, prepare
annual lists of new construction needs and of school upgrading needs by
governorate;
(c)   On the basis of the anual lists mentioned in the preceding item and the available
funds, draw up lists of first-priority schools to be built and to be rehabilitated,
ensuring the availability and governent ownership of the properties;
Spedfic Civil Works Execution Responsibilities of GAEB
(a)   Based on the data base being prepared (and anticipated to be completed by the end
of 1992), GAEB will prepare the following output, with priority attntion to target
Governorates:
(i)    Listing of schools in each Governorate according to physical condition and
suitability to function;
(ii)    Listing of schools in each Governorate according to educational criteria;
(iii)   Lsting of schools in each Governorate according to their need for
maintenance (it has been agreed tha CDEPI and GAEB will coordinate
their respective school classification systems to become compatible and to
ensure ihat all physical facility information pertinent to both agencies win
be accepted in both computerized databases);
(iv)    Engineering Record for each school;
(v)    Document engineering criteria and match them with the educational criteria
to be followed;
(vi)    Analyze results of studies conducted in GAEB Research;
(vii)    Document and analyze school mapping data, diagnostic data and projected
data;
(viii)   Adapt MOE's appropriate standard school model to the given site
conditions (topography, bearing capacity of te soil, solar orientation,
access, etc.), and submit modifications of the standard model to CDEPI's
technical unit for review and approval;
(ix)    Prepare construction drawings and tender documents including Bills of
Quantities and Specifications;
(x)    Manage the tender process and follow up implementation of the projects;
and
(xi)    Supervise construction from award of contract through practical and final
completion of the project.



-63 v
Annex 4
C. Objectives for Strengthening MOE's Civil Works Management Capablies
10.         lhe project would reinforce CDEPI's internal technical staff wit a nucleus of full-
time educational building specialists to improve MOE's capability to deal with the above
objectives in the most informed and equitable manner possible, without duplicating the role of
GAEB, as follows:
(a) Strengthen MOE's internal capabilities to monitor and analyze the work being
carried out to quantify and to prioritize the national needs In all areas of civil
works (new construction, repair/rehabilitation of existing buildings and preventive
maintenance of all buildings).
(b)   Strengthen MOE's internal capabilities to allocate the available resources in
accordance with confirmed needs, and according to objective criteria.
(C) Strengthen MOE's internal capabilities to translate the Minister's educational
objectives into cost-effective building programs by maximizing space utilizaton.
(d)   Strewhen MOE's internal capabilities to analyze, monitor and guide the execution
of all civil works acivities and to contain their costs.



IMPLEMENTATION PLANS F'OR CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT
I                 ~~~~~Pre-effectfve   |  Year I              Year 2      |      Year 3      |      Year 4      |      Year 5             Year 6
Activity__=__=s:=_____________
tQ  2   3   4Q   t    2    3    4    t   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   t   2   3   4
Schoot Desfst                      ____                                        _    _          
sfte Setection                _ ___ _ _                                             _ _ _.                  _ __ _ _
Const. & Furnm. i@E_        _          ____-I-_______
Pphanse3 Schoolts                                   -T|||      
Ca m ty   Partic. _== -           -,'.''X,'.,,--
|tralnfng                                                                           E                                                                               _     __l0ii      
|TA for MEPI &   AE   -\=B                             --                      z 
LSoSI testing Lab  _ __                                                                                  [        = II=L   
101



- 65 -
Annx 4b
SCHOOL SITES DONATED
FOR PHASE I SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM BY GOVERNORATE
(Assiut Govwerate, Educatio Dieckrate, Pnlaing & Follow-up Department)
D_ _ _ _ _ _              Schad                               Ame                    OWneMNP
Sef                       a-ScWa.aIn                          14 Kart               Donated
lobet lO Y -Primay                  14 Kiar                Donated by Seddik Aly
aYro                      Ard El Haft - Pepartr                                     State propery in proem
_________   of being tanered
AI-Sahe                   E Mooma at the Subs - Primary       One feddan_______
Abyoub                    ESawaem ID Dabara - Prmay           14 Karats             Donatd
AI-Fath                   Aid  K          El Nemuae           14 Karate             __I
El-Ohanaym                Dek El anadl - Seoqda               One feddan            Stat proper
Vocatiol- prep                      TWO feddans 
rhuTeg                    An 131Zaraby - Scoar                42 feddas             ArcultrA Reform
(Aguture)                                                 prope   and hs been
allocated to the MOE
_________________Aid Dikran - Basic Educatio            One fedda
El _adar         0l Hamey - Pimay                             245 m                 State Propery
A143taima--. Seconday               4200
Aisut                     M kd- Dak E* ucatiN                 18 Kaats 
Bhan -Back Education                One feddn   8 Karate
Dronks                   AW El Shusavai                       One feddan            Allocated
2
Manbfalt                  Ard El Rab  P ep.                   3600 m                Donated
Al-Hama - Pm.                       8 Karat               state propert
E-hanayem                 ElEade  El ?oushuraa                One feddan            State Property - allocated
ElI-Koun"a                Aid Natara  Prm.                    12 Karte               State Property
El-raa        _ - Prep,             10 Karate             Donated
Dekr 13 Kiosd - Pim.                11 Karats             State Propey



-66-
An= 4b
SOHAG GOVERNORATE
Educadon Directe
Planning and Follow-up Depa,*nent
SCHOOL                        DISTRICT
1. Nagaa El Makia Primary School  Johina District
2. Shaa Prepartory School          Tema District
3. El Tabbakh Primary School       El Marajha District      Replacement
4. Bani Awam Primary School        Dar El Salam District
1. Primary School                  Tahta City
6. El Ktitah Primary School        Sakolta District
7. Nagaa El Tiena Primary School   Gerga District
8. Nagaa Ibrahim Primary School   El Kola-Akhmim District
9. Primary School                  El Menshah District      Replacement
10. El Ogobeya Primary School     El Menshah District       Replacement



- 67 -
Amex 4b
QINA GOVERVORATE
E4ucadon Direcorate
Planning and Foelow-up Deparment
SCHOOLS KaIm                             LCATION
1. Seminhood Preparatory School            Abou Tesht
2. El Rabha Primary School                 Abou Tesht
3. Naa Rawai Primary School                Naga Hammadi
4. El Haama Primary School                 Deshna
5. Abou Shahiba School (Basic Education)    Qift
6. Kome Skyen School (Basic Education)     Qousse
7. El Iaranat Primary School in Zawiada    Nakada
8. Abou Bakr El Sedeek in El Shaghab       Essna
9. El SheMh Essia Preparatory School       Qena
10. El Deir El Sharkey Primary School      Qena
11. Abou El Hassan Primary School          Qena
All these sites are ready and there is an allocation decree.



-68 -
Amex 4b
SMRYA GOVBRNORAT
Educoaen lD  oerate
Planidag and Follow-up Depofunen
SCHOOL            VLAGE   SPACE 
Repair in Zankalone    Primary      New
Kf SIker
Abou Tlgah            Primy         New
El Manshia El Gedida    r           New
El Hawamda            Primary       New           _
Kafr El Malamia       Primary       New
San El Hagar South    Pdimary       New
El Awamra (Samakeen  Primary        New
El Sharak)
El Nama Prepartory   Prpato         New
Ezbet El Nagighi      Primary       New
Wahed VilLage in      Primary       New
Kasby West
El Khalyla            Primary       New
Sharaa                PMary         Rpl       t
Sabah Abou Khaiifa    Primary       New
Ezbet El Gohary       Primary       New
Kafr El Azazi         Primary       Replaceent
Manshiat Said         Primary       New
Naziat Tal Moftah     Primary       New
El Nasria Primary     Prmary        New
Hehyh
Houd Naghah           Pimay         New
Eh                                      _
Awlad Mhanaa          Pprtory    New
Bani Salah            Praparatory    New
Menia El Ramh
Sanhoot               Praatoy    New
El Aaras              Pratoy    New



-69 -
Annex 4b
ISMAILA GOVMERNORATE
Education Drectonzte
Plannig and Follow-up Depadment
SCHOOLS KIND                             LOCATION
1. Primary School                   El Sheikh Zayed-Third District - Fourth Area.
2. Preaory School                   Water Tank Filth-Site Handed Over to GAEB
3. Pimy School                      El Salam District-Near the New Retail
Market.
4. Prearatory School                Site has been handed over to GAEB
5. Preparatory                      Big Social Community with only one primary
school.
6. Primary School                   El Sheldh Zayed, Area from University Clinic
Center to the Garden Behind the New
Governorate Building
7. Primary School                   Abou Swair-El Warawda (Replacement)
8. Prmary School                    Inside the Preparatory Badr School Site in
Nefresha-behind the School and the Site is
ready.
9. Prmary School                    11 KM West Tent Port Said-El Saleheya
(Sami Saad) the site is ready
SecondFae
P       ___y School                 Ezbet El Menyawi (site is ready)
dM ED Katr Gharb
Primary School                      El Raih-Near Village Council (site is limited)
Fourth E1 Tal El Jeder
Primary School                      Ezbet Khenfer-the New El Kassaseen-the site
have been cenoted.



-70-
Anmx
MENOPEYA GOVERNORATE
Educion Diivctoeste
Panning and FOilow-up Depawnent
SCHOOL            VJILLGE        SPACE
Meet Mousa School    Meet Mousa   IF 19T          Direction of Meet Mousa Near
1 Acre 19    Ershadya Housing Project
Kamtes
Part of the Ground    Shanawan      3200 e        Direction of Meet Mousa Near
Youth Center                                      Ershadia Housing Project
Shanawan
Ard El Marageeh       Shanawan      2000 m1       Directon of Meet Mousa Near
South Side                                        Ershadia Housing Project
El Maai                l Maai       14 Eara       Space No. 319 Renewal from
Space No. 124



-71 -
Annuex -4b
CAIRO GOVERNORTE
Edwaden Directamte
Pmnag twd Folow.up Depanment
School Location        Area       Type       Soil Test j Ownership    | Remarks
New Site at Mateya    2000 n2    Donated   Done        Confiscated    Donated
El-Daher - Prim.       900 n2      Donated   Done      State Property   Available
Port Said Street
Tebbin Site            6000 ei    New        Not       Rented         Rented for 50 years
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ._________  d o n e
Abou El Seoud Area     7605 e2    New        In the    State Property   Mania El Roda
approx.              prcess                   Housing Society
Three sites at Sakr    2209 m2    New        Not done   State Property   Allocated for a year
Korish, Maadi          2000 n2    New        Not don.
1622 ni2    New      Not done
Site in Helwan         2320 e2    New        Not done   State Property   Allocated for a year
Sites in El Nasr City    s264.5s m2   New   No need  9 sites among
7.3S.61 M2                     9 delivered
i__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _  sites
El Attar Ptim. School             Evacuted
site



-72 -
Annex
IN-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING
Introduction
1.          The quality of the teaching-learning situation in Egyptan schools is hampered by
many problems resulting in a low level of achievement. Attempts are being nade to reform the
curricula including textbooks and examination methodology, but the teacher remains the key for
successful implementation. Current m-service teacher training is generally planned at the central
level and is implemented sequentially by training leaders and trainers at the central and regional
levels, and training teachers at the governorate levels. The mode of delivery has been mainly
that of ineffective lecturing to large groups, sometmes followed by sessions of discussion
involving smaller groups, but some improvement have been observed recently. TDe efficiency
and effectiveness of in-service teacher training have been impaired by several issues and
problems including the following:
(a) fragmentation of training responsibilities;
(b) lecturing as a predominant mode of delivery;
(c)   budgetary constraints resulting in limited coverage and iadequate compensation to
trainers, thus failing to attract the more qualified or effective trainers to
participate;
(d) absence or scarcity of effective training modules and materials;
(e)   inadequate training facilities at the General Directorate for In-service Teacher
Training (GDIST) and the Regional Training Centers (RTCs) and their uneven
distribution in the country;
(t)   lack of clarity in line-management accountability in-service training especially that
the local training budget is controlled at the mudiriya (governorate) level, and that
educationai Directors in the mudiriyas are accountable both to the Governor and
the Minister;
(g)   absence of an active role for head teachers in academic and pedagogic supervision
at the school level; and
(h) the difficulty, inconvenience and personal costs incurred in traveling to and
residing around training centers by many groups of teachers especially in rural
areas. This is exacerbated by the fact that many trained teachers avoid
assignments in distant rural areas.
2.           The in-service teacher training component addresses the quality of input into the
training system by focussing on the preparation of integrated training materials and the training of
tachs in slected subjects and levels. In line with the priorites of the MOE as expressed to



-73 -
IDA missions and after considering the basic issues of this subsector, the in-service teacher
training component will concentre on:
(a)   formulating national policies and plans for in-serice teacher training;
(b)   establishing in GDIST the capabilit and capacity to design and produce quality
taining modules and inucdonal materials and the act  productton of such
materials in science, mathematics, and English;
(c)  training leaders and trainers of teahers who will be inumental in implementing
meddsms for in-service teacher training at the governorate/Idarat levels;
(d)   developing, on a pilot project basis, a distance education in-service teacher training
program to be field-ted in three govenorates;
(e)   rehabilitating the GDIST/Cairo RTC and the General Directorate for Audiovisual
Materials (GDAVM) complex at Manshiet el-Bakri to house the new units of the
GDIST. it should be noted that due to the impact of the October 1992 earthquake
on the 0DIST/Cairo RTC building, a new plan needs to be developed and funds
not to exceed those already allocated will remain earmarked for this componet;
and
(f)   constructing and equipping a new RTC in Qena; and enhancing the technical
facilities of the other RTCs.
Objectives of In-service Teacher Training
3.          The ultimate goal of in-service teacher training is to improve teaching-learning
processes through sustained professional grwth of wachers. Its objectives in the basic education
stage as envisioned by the MOE are as follows:
(a) enhancing the effectiveness of teachers and improving their methodology and
pefrace;
(b)   developing capabilities, profesional skills, and knowledge of teachers in an
integrated manner;
(c)   improving teachers' attitudes and behavior escially in relation to work
relationships; and
(d)   enabling teachers to acquire matery of new developments in their fields or
subjects and to remain updated in advances in science, technology, and modem
methodology.
Detiled Descriptin of Component
4.          Policy Forulaion and ImpeImentation. In line with the need to coordinate and
ingrae in-service teacher taning activities, Minis   decee No. 219 of September 24, 1992
was issued establishig a Higher Comminssion for Trin. The Commission is chaired by H.E.



- 74 -
Annex 5
the Minister and includes the Directors of the Center for Curriculum and Instructional Materials
Development (CCIMD), the National Center for Examinations and Educational Evaluation
(NCEEE), the National Center for Educational Research and Development (NCERD), and other
senior MOE officials. The general director of the GDIST is the secretary of this commission.
The Commission's mandate is to establish general policies for training and delineate guidelines
for ptanning training programs in ways that ensure coordination among the various dirctrae
and centers. In addition, the Commission has the authority to monitor the implementation of the
general policies.
5.          The major functions of the new capability to be established in the GDIST are: (i)
to translate the national strategy and policies of the Higher Commission for Training into action
plans; (ii) to assess specific needs, prioritize and coordinate them into annual integrated rainig
plans; (iii) to ensure that final instructional materials encompass subcomponents reflecting the
concerns of the CCIMD, NCEEE, or other directorates, which are related to changes in
curricula, textbooks, examinations, teaching methodology, educational technology, etc.; and (iv)
to evaluate implementation and adopt/recommend corrective or improvement measures.
The New Units of the GDIST
6.          Capability to Design and Produce Quality Modules. To realize the previously-
mentioned objectives, the project would support the development of the capacity to plan, design
and produce quality teacher training modules and materials. To achieve this along with other
goals, the following four new units is being established in the GDIST:
(a)   Planning and Instructional Design Unit. The major fumctions of this unit would
be to: (i) identify and analyze training needs; (ii) plan and design programs to train
leaders and trainers of teachers; (iii) plan and design training manuls for teacher
trainees; and (iv) plan and design special programs for in-service taining of
teachers through distance education. The ultimate product of this unit would be
thbe draft text of each type of instructional material, mcluding written materials and
the script for video/audio cassettes or any other form of AV material.
(b)   Production Unit. The production unit would: (i) produce training materials for
leaders and trainers of teachers; (ii) produce training materials (i.e. training
manuals) for teacher trainees; and (iii) produce training materials for teachers
trained through distance education. Production of the materials would normally be
in cooperation with the GDAVM. However, it should be possible to contract
other institutions or organizations, public or private, to produce or contribute to
the production of certain materials.
(c)   Distance Leaming Pilot Unit. The distance learning unit would plan and
implement a distance teacher training program on a limited scale in three
governorates in cooperation with the other units. The modes of delivery are
expected to include study assignments, TV and/or videotape viewing, personal
contact sessions, and guidance by supervisors and head teachers. The future of
this unit would be decided by the MOE after the conclusion of the pilot study and
its internal and external evaluation. More details about ibis subcomponent are
provided below.



- 75 -
Anne S
(d)   Internal Evalwaton Unit. The internal evaluation unit would: (i) conduct
continuous internal evaluation of all training activities and functions; (ii) prepare
and develop insuments and methods for the evaluation of training programs; (iii)
supervise the administration of these in the various centers and locations; (iv)
collect and analyze the data in order to determine strengths and weaknesses in the
programs and; (iv) share the results along with appropriate recommendations with
the other three units.
7.          There should be close cooperation and coordination among the units as well as
between these units and the GDAVM. A reorganization in the MOE's structure has been
submitted for approval in which both the GDIST and t,e GDAVM would report to the same
undersecretary (these two general directorates currently report to the same First Undersecretary
for Services but to two different undersecretaries).
Scope of Traiing Supported by the Proposed Project
8.          The training modules to be produced would be designed to best meet the needs of
specific traiing sessions. The modules may include various types of instructional materials
including written materials, exercises, sample tests, video-cassettes, audio-cassettes, and
transparencies. Although part of the specialized capabilities are subject matter-related, the
technical skills acquired in this project by the staff of the various units are general in nature and
would be used to produce training materials in other subjects in addition to mathematics, science
and English. Thus, the GDIST would eventually utilize this capability in the preparation of
tining materials in subjects other than those directly supported in this project. In addition to
modules for leaders and trainers of teachers, it is planned to produce manuals to guide individual
teachers both before and after training.
9.          The proposed project would support preparation of programs and training leaders,
trainers, and teachers to: (i) enhance the performance and effectiveness of teachers; (ii) provide a
more effective vehicle for introducing developments in curricula and textbooks; and (ii) improve
the evaluation of the teaching process especially in the formulation of test questions and analysis
of results. The five specific categories of teachers targeted by the project's training programs:
teatchers of Mathematics for grades 4-5 and grades 6-8 (two categories of teachers)
-     teacher- of Science for grades 4-5 and grades 6-8 (two categories of teachers)
-     teachers of English for grades 6-8 (one category of teachers)
Iitially, leaders would be trained at the central level and would then train trainers of teachers
(typically supervisors) at the RTC level. Teacher training would take place at the local level.
The Stucture of the Training Program
10.         Training would take place sequentially at different levels represented by the
folowing:
(a)   Level 1: Training of leaders (trainers of trainers) would take place through
centralized training programs that depend upon well-prepared training modules and



-76-
packages. Ibis traing wold be done by local and foreign consultants in Cairo
and involve 14 leader for each category (two for each Regional Training Center),
for a total of 70 leaders for the five categories in the seven RTCs.
(b)   Levd n: Training of trainers of teadcn would take place in the seven RTCs and
would be conducted by the eader trained in Level L Each of these trainers
(mostly supervisors but may inchlde selected head teachers) will also be provided
with a training package similar to that of the leaders, with modifications if
necessary or additions related to specific objectives of teacher training in the field.
Ihe numbr of trainers would depend upon the number of teachers that would
ulmately be trained in each category and training sessions could be repeated as
needed to satisfy all the needs. The approxinate  mbers of supervisors (potential
trainers of teachers in te 23 govemorates, excluding those in the distance
education governorates) in 1992-93 are as follows: Science, 860 primary and 400
preparatory; Ma*t, 960 primary and 490 preparatory; and English, 500
preparatory.
(c)   Level III: Training of teachers in the field by the trainers tained in Level II.
Normally, each trainer would train the teachers under his/her supervision and
evaluation responsibility. Each echer would be given a printed manual as a
guide in the training process and for future reference. It is estinmted that this
aining would involve the following numbers of tehers:
Esdtated Number of Teachers In Regular Training
(Exchding Distance Education)
M;emticsScienc         EnsHsh  lUta
Grades 4-5            27,000       18,000      -         45,000
Grades 6-8            20,000       23,200   1S,200       58,400
Dance Education Plot Study
11.      In view of the large numbers of teachers and the difficulty, cost and inconvenience of
transportation and accommodation, especially for those residing in dispersed rural areas, distance
education would be introduced on a pilot project basis in three governorates as an alternative
mode of delivering in-service teacher training. Distance in-service teacher training would be
delivered through a mulmedia packagp which may include some or all of the following: printed
self-learning materials Including reading/study assignments, exercises and self-evaluation; TV
broadcasts and/or video viewing; radio broadcas and/or audio-tapes; personal contact sessions
of short duration; and close guidance by supvisors and/or head teachers in study centers and
within the school.
12.      This pilot study would take place in the governorates of Al-Buhayra (coordinated by
Axana RTC), Kaf EI-Sheikh (ordinaed by Al-Garbiyyah RTC), and Assiut (coordinauled
by Assiut RTC). The same categories of tears (subjects and class levels) would be serviced
by the distamce education   mponent in the three governorates as in the regular training part



- 77 -
Am 5
of the project (science, math, ad English). Ihe estimated mnmbers of teachers ihat would be
trained in the various subject matters tirough distance education in the ftree selected
govemorates are presented in the following table:
EAtmated Number of Teachers Involved in Distance Educatdon Plot
Grades 4 - I          Grades 6 - 8
Math  Science         Math  Science      English
Al-Buhayra      1800  1200            1100  1170         670
Kafr El-Sheikh    950   750           840   800          560
Assiut         120  8                 12Q  fl7 
Total       3950  2750            2760  3740        1890
13.      The estimated number of supervisors that would be trained in the three distance
education governorates is presented in the following table:
rades 4 - S        Ges 6 - 8
Math  Science      Math  Science   English
AlBuhayra       80        82      41    33        41
Kafr El-Sheikh    52      49      23    18        22
Assiut          34        3       22    aa        22
Total    166       164      93    74        92
14.      In principle, the traiers of teachers in these three governorates would receive the
same training as those in the remining governorates although the details would have to be
worked out by the specialists. Furthermore, they would receive additional training in matters
particularly related to the distance education programs in their govenorates. The teachers in the
various categories following the distance education program would depend largely upon self-study
materials. Furthermore, they would have access to special instructional materials such as video-
cassettes, transparencies, and audio-cassettes in study centers at each district (Idara) level of
which there are 14 in Al-Buhayra, 10 in Kafr El-Sheikh, and 11 in Assiut. There may be
additional study centers if needed to make the materials more accessible. In addition, there will
be three full days of face-to-face interaction between the teachers and the trainers organized
throughout the year, in addition to an evaluation day. These direct contact days have to be only
a part of those in the regular trin  program in order to differeniate betveen the two.
15.      Many of the capabilities praining to the designi and production of quality training
modules overlap with capabilities needed for the design and production of materials for distan
education. Nevertheless, the Distance Learnig Pilot Unit to be established within the GDIST
will assume technical and admdnistrative responsibility for the distance education pilot project



- 78 -
Anex 
including magenmnt, academic programming, and trainees support services in coopaon with
the coordinators appointed for the purpose in the tree corresponding RTCs.
16.      Each of te three RTCs should act as a catalyst and a clearinghouse to facilitae, in
cooperation with local training centers, the flow of marials; administering and coordinating
face-to-face sessions; trning local supervisors and head teachers in providing in-school
assistance to teachers; and in follow-up activities. In view of the research-oriented nature of this
subcomponent, it is essential that an external (not involving those participating in the
development and implementation of the project) evaluation of the progrm (as developed and
implemented) be undertaken. It was agreed to approach te NCERD for implementing this
external evaluation which would form a basis for further action pertaining to distance education
as a mode of delivery.
17.      Civil Works and Equipment. In view of the fact that five of the six existing RTCs
are in or north of Cairo, the proposed project would finance construction and equipping of a new
RTC in Qena. This will alleviate the difficulties experienced by trainees in the southern
governorates and will serve the govemorates of Qena, Souhaje, Red Sea, and Aswan. An
architectural design has bee prepared and cost estimates have been made. Site acquisition has
been initiated and needs some follow-up for finalization. With respect to Manshiet el-Bakri, fial
decision regarding the construction/rehabilitation of needed facilities had to be postponed because
of the impact of the earthquake on the upper floor of the GDIST and the Cairo RTC. A new
proposal was presented during negotiations within the ceiling of the already allocated cost, with
particular attention given to house the new four units of the GDIST. Other support to each of the
six RTCs would mainly relate to basic educational technology, selected needed office equipment,
library enrichment, and basic computer hardware and software mainly for record keeping. An
individual list should be compiled for each RTC.
staffing
18.      An experienced and dynamic educator should be appointed as the PIU Coordinator of
this component of the project early enough for him/her to work closely with the consultants in the
pre-effectiveness stage. In addition, the personnel and technicians needed for the four units to be
established in the General Directorate for In-Service Training are as follows:
(a)   Planning and Instuctional Deign Unit
- Director
- Science team leader
- Science specialists (3)
- Mathematics team leader
-  Mathemaics specialists (3)
- English language team leader
- English language specialists (3)
-  Part-tm  specialists contracted for specific assignments as needed; recruited from
counselors, supeniors, CCIMD, NCEEE, universities, etc. (4 for each subject).
- Admiistrative staff (4)



- 79 -
(b)   Producdion Unit
-  Director
- TV recording specialist (1)
- Electonic montage specialist (1)
- Cameraman/Assistant TV director (1)
- Scriptwriter (1)
- Designer, graphics, layout, illustrator, tansparencies (2)
- Audio director/recording (2)
-  Desk-top publishing (2)
-  Administrative staff (2)
(c)    Distance Learning Pilot Unit
- Director
- Field Director
- Administrative staff (2)
- Coordinators in the 3 corresponding RTCs (3)
(d)   Internal Evaluation Unit
- Director
- Evaluation specialist (2)
- Administrative staff (2)
Outline of Subcomponents to be Supported by Proposee   iject
19.      To summarie, the proposed project would finance the following: (i) design,
development, printing and production of instructional modules for training in science,
mathematics, and English for leaders, trainers and teachers of grades 4-8 and for ' pilot, distance
education-based in-service teacher training program; (ii) construction or renovation of facilities in
Manshiet el-Bakri, Cairo to accommodate facilities and resources for the design and production
of training modules and instructional materials and for the pilot distance education program (not
to exceed the allocated limit); (iii) construction and equipping of a new RTC in Qena and
upgrading technical facilities and resources in the other RTCs; (iv) procurement of equipment,
software, and supplies for establishing the capability to produce modules and to operate the pilot
distance education program; (v) operational costs including training costs at the different levels,
and building and equipment maintenance; (vi) provision of technical assistance (short- and long-
term consulting experts and international fellowships) and local training for establishing the
design and production capabilities; and (vii) an evaluation study by the NCERD of the pilot
distance education progran, as developed and Implemented. Details of compiled lists of specific
equipment, facilities, software and building specifications and costs need to be checked by the
above consultants and are subject to review and approval of IDA.



-so-
Annex S
ADDITIONAL RECURRENT COST
FOR IN-SERVICE TEACHER TRANING SYSTEM
GDIST salaries, part-timers, and
Distance Leanig  Support           $0.45 million
RTC in Qena salaries               $0.L12 million
Subtotal                         $0.57 million
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT COST
(US Dollars)
1. Technical Assistance
A. Pe-effectiveness (UNDP funding)
1. nstuctional Design (ID) spec. (4 p/m)  50,000
2. Educ. Technology (ET) spec. (4 p/m)    50,000
B. Project
1. ID specialist (24 p/m intermittent)   320,000
2. ET specialist (24 p/m intermittent)    320,000
3. Subject specific consultans (18 p/m)   240,000
4. Additional consultants for itegratd
production courses in Egypt (6 p/m)     80,000
2. Staff Development
A. Courses of Study Abroad (General director of
4 units, 4 directors of unis, S from design,
5 from production, and one from evaluation
units (16 x 6 months each)                540,000
IQWta                                 $1,600,000
3. Staff development, local consultants and
counterparts and intensive language training  LE 300,000
GRAND TOTAL                                   SL60



- 81 -
EQUIPMENT, CIVIL WORKS & OTBER NEEDS
(US$)
1. GDIST Units - Design, Producion, Evaluation and Distance Larning
(a) Office equipment nldhing photocopi      60,000
(b) PC compute nd piherl  chudg
desk-top pubhing                        35,000
(c) VCR & monitor for viwing                5,000
(d) TV cameras and accesor                  50,000
(e) A complete audio studio               lS0,000
(f) Trasmon equipment                       5,000
(g) Video duplication equipment             35,000
(h) Cassettes (video & audio) (Mev.)        15,000
(V) Spae parts                              5,000
(  Equipment to print colored transparenci
for ovrehead projection                 30,000
(k) Other AV equipment                      20,000
(I) Producdon & reproduction of modules (Dev.)  40,000
(in) Supplies & odter miscellaneous (Dev.)  30.
Subtotal                              480,000
(n) Civil works at Manshiet-Bakri to house new
units of GDIST                         650,000
2. RegIonal Training Centers
(a) VCRs (2x7)                              15,000
(b) TV moniors  X7)                        .15,000
(c) Audio CR (2x7)                          4,000
(d) Other AV aids, speilized office equpent,   -
overhad projecdon (avage 15,000/RTC)   105,000
(e) Enrichment of Libraries over S years at
8,000 each (excluding Qena) (Eq.)       48,000
(t) Supplies over 5 years at 2000Iyear/RTC (Dev.) 70,000
(g) Equipment for reproduction of cassettes
for 7 centrs                            70,000
(h) Additional supplies for 3 RTCs involved
distance education progrm (Dev.)        is
Subtotal                               342,000



- 82 -
Annex 
3. New RTC in Qena
(a) Civil works                            640,000
(b) Science laboratories (3)                90,000
(c) Computer laboratory                     21,000
(d) Office equipment including desk-top
publishing unit                         35,000
(e) Library (initW acquisition)             10,000
(M) Library budget (3 years)                6,
802,000
4. Study Centers for Distance Education Pilot
(a) Large TV monitor (35 centers)           35,000
(b) VCR for viewing (35 centers)            35,000
(c) Audio CR Ste=eo(35 centers)             21,000
(d) Supplies (400./center)                  14,000
Subtotal                               105,000
5. Contributin of Government in Egyptian Pounds (LE)
(a) Lot of land in Qena 15,000 sq m
estimated at LE 200/sq m            (LE 3.0 iililion)
(b) Furniture for Qena RTC and for additional
units in GDIST                      (LE 0.5 million)
COSTS OF THE REGULAR TRAINNG PROGRAM
A. Training of Leaders (Central, for all Governorates)
70 leaders/14 leaders/session = 5 sessions
Cost/session: 14 modules x LE 100/mod =    LE 1400
Expert (foreign already compensaed), local experts LE 3000
Per diem LE 20/day x 10 dayslsession x 14 leaders LB 2800
Other waining materials & expenses      LE  800
Cost/session                            LE 8000
Cost of 5 sessions                         LE 40000



- 83 -
Am= S
B. Traiing of Supeviors (egional, for 23 Governorates)
Primary scdence           860 superv.  22 sessions
Preparatory science       400 superv.  10 sessions
Primary mathematcs        960 superv.  24 sessions
Preparatory math          490 superv.  13 sessions
Preparatory English       500  pra.  13 sessions
3210 superv. 82 sessions
Cost/session: LE 100/module x 40 modules     LE 4000
Trainers                           LE 3000
Other training materials/exp.      LE 1000
Per diem @ LE 10/day x 10 days     LE 4000
Cost/sessions                      LE 12000
Cost of 82 sessions                         LE 984000
C. Traing of Teachers (Local, for 23 Governorates)
Prmary science         18,000 teachers  450 sessions
Preparatory science    23,200 teachers  580 sessions
Primary mathematics    27,000 teachers  675 sessions
Preparatory math       20,000 teachers  500 sessions
Preparatory English    15,200 teachers  380 ssins
Total No. of seions fpr teachers       2585 sessions
Cost/session: Training materials @ LE 10/trainee
including printed manual           LE 400
Trainers                           LE 2000
Per diem @ LE 5/day x 10 days x 40  LE 2000
Costlsession                                 LE 4400
Cost of 2,585 sessions                   LE 11,374,000
Total Cost of Regular TrIning (A+B+C)               LE 12,398,000



84- 
TRAING IN DMISANCE LEARNIG PlAWr PROGRAM (3 GOVERNORATES)
Similar amptions wili be used for computing tie cost of this component except that the
face-to-face training of teachers will be for three days of direct contact, ad one day of
evaluaton.
Training of supervisors, a total of 19 sessions
* about LE 12,000/session                   LE 228,000
Traiing of tahers requre 379 sessions.
Cost/session: Trainn materals 0 I  10/trainee     400
Tinrs (4 days)                           800
Per diem O LE S/day x 4 days x 40           SW
cost/session                                    LE 2000
Cost of 379 sessions                        LE 758,000
Moduleslpackages (5 tpes x 35 centers)        LE 17,500
Total Disa    Leaing Progrn                LBE 1,003,500
OVERALL TOTAL DERECI COST OF TRAINING
INCLUDING DISTANCE LEARNING               LE 13,401,S00
(abot $ 4,050,000)
Ihe above includes developmen costs of modules and mater:
LB 7000 (A) + LE 238,000 (B) + LE 1,034,000 (C) +
LE 151,600 (Dit Educ.) + LE 17,500 (cen) - LE 1,448,100
or $0.44 million



- 85 -
An=e S
COST TABLE2
Summiay Account for In-servio Tea ler Trining  Component
(m Millions of US Dollars)
GDIST       RTCs         IN-          DISTANC
SERVICE    E
TEACHER   EDUCATI
TRAINING   ON
. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works               0.65         0.64                        -
B. Equipmen (incl. Qena)     0.48         0.51                      0.11
C. Furnitre (GOE)            0.03         0.12                        -
D. Tedhnical Assistance      1.69                        -            -
E. OtdrTeacher                 -            -          3.76         0.30
Tainin Program 
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS   2.85               1.27         3.76         0.41
.I ADDMTIONAL RECURRENT
&     OTHER COSTS
A. Salaries                  0.45         0.12
B._Equipment M nt
C. Buildingintec                   .
Notes:
Govenment contribudon includes, among other items, land for the Qena facility, all furniture
for GDIST and Qena RTC, and additional recurrent costs.
Zi Thse costs are estimates.



- 86-
Annex S
EGYPT BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Consultnts for l-Sevice Teacer Training Component
(Pr-effectiveness of PrAject-Clendar 1993)
1. EXPERT ON INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN (ID)
Duration:       4 months, 2 visits, in Egypt
Attachment:    First Undersecretay for Services, MOE
Qualifications   Ph.D. with specialization in Educational Technology/Instructional Design with
a minimum of 8 years of experience in the field, preferably with international
consultancy.
Job Description: Within the framework of an agreed specific work plan and in collaboration
with assigned Egyptian counterparts, the expert would
(a) prepare instructional materials development plans for the project and
coordnate findings with the Educational Media and Technology consultant;
(b) address the details of the instuctional design process for the project
worling closely with specific curriculum area specialists and potential
production personnel to establish a 'systems approach" in designing
instuctional materials, self-study modules, and media units;
(c) organize a workshop on systems design (using one of the subjects that will
be dealt with, e.g., English) including needs analysis, task analysis,
specification of objectives, reviewing alternatives, writing syllabi,
constructing units or training courses, deciding on teaching strategies,
selecting the media, writing scripts, writing criterion tests, validating,
field-testng, evaluating and revising products and methods of utilization.
Subject matter counselors should be involved in this;
(d) develop detailed functions of the members of the proposed Planning and
Design Unit and prepare work flow chart on materials design and
development and outine and specify functions of design rnd development
Wteams*;
(e) prepare and conduct workshops for key personnel of the proposed units in
matters directy related or relevant to instructional design particularly for
teache training materials to complement the training described under (c).
Recommend in a specific manner further training activities locally or
programs abroad (suggesting institutions) as may be needed;



- 87-
(f) assist in selecting the most promising counerparts for foreign study; and
(g) fornulate a plan for developing the capability of the members of the
Plannng and Design Unit.
Lnguages:       English; proficiency in Arabic is desirable.



tA88 -
I. CONSULTANT IN EDUCATIONAL MEDIA AND TECHNOLOGY
Duistion:       4months,2visitsinE"ypt , ; i:.
Attadnuent:    First Undersecretary for Services, MOE
Qualifcaions:  Ph.D. with specialization in Educational Media, Educational Technology, or
Production of Instructional Materials with a minimum of eight years
experience in the field, preferably including International consultancy.
Job Descriptio: Within the framework of an agreed specific work plan nd in collaboration with
assigned Egyptian counterpars, the expert would
(a) study the general plan for establishing the four urits in the GDIST for the
development and utilization of group and self-instructional teacher training
educational materials and modules and make suggestions for improvement;
(b) study the current capabilities for the development of instructional materials
in the General Directorate for Audiovisual Materials (GDAVM) and in
other public and pAvate organizations to assess how the proposed units
complement available human and physical resources:
(c) assess the current systems or methods in the production of instructional
materials that can be used in the production of teacher training modules
and recommend changes or improvements in consultation and coordination
with local counter irts;
(l) conduct a workshop to illustrate the process of producing instructional
materials that have been designed and to point out the strengths/weaknesses
of different alternatives in relation to the desired objectives;
(e) recomnend media production requirements and refine the preliinary
specifications for facilities, equipment, and materials providing an
estimate of related costs;
(f) develop plans for the development of prototype media materials for the in-
service training of teachers in collaboration with counterparts and the
instructional design consultant;
(g) assess plans for the distance education component and dissemination
strategies and make recommendations for improvement where warranted;
(O) review proposed staffing and structure within the proposed units and the
interrelationships of the other relevant entities in the system, i.e., Regional
Training Centers (RTCs), Center for Curriculum and Instructional
Materials Development (CCIMD), National Center for Exanatons and
Educational Evaluation (NCEEE), GDAVM and recommend changes if



* 89 -
_ecessary.  n oordon wih local coun_rparts and ID conultant,
detl desction of Sucdons ad _suggestt       requiments,
prams, ad usdlutlos. At  In sekctn the most pronising
canidat for oxcig study; a
(i) propose a ist of W _erencs whih would support the poential staff of th
four uits In tir profedona gowt hi relaion to the overall goals of th
four unis.
Liaguag.:       English; profic y in Arabic i desrable.



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR THE IN-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING COMPONENT
I  Preoeffective    |      Year I                Year 2        I       Year 3                Year 4        |       Year 5               Year 6
II   Activity                                  --2IQ4I_<         M           2 4lII412-11IIIIIII 
|Engage "InstrflDsgz___r___TI
detaited plans for the 3 
Appet. of nes  staff for
design & materials_                      *    *                                _____                                                                                             _
Language trainingfor-
staff of the units.pecs
ALointan d. f_tor all
st aff fof te units.
Apt.cfnwstaff.lo
design &mterfat o
spcalists. f  h  ufs
LreI  in.  fr.   .orkt
stafft^PEl of th 1units.1 11 L 



Pre-effectiveness         Year 1               Year 2               Year 3              Year 4               Year 5               Year 6
ActivQty                      0        - 1    23                   4    3 234         1      3    4    1          32   4         2    3          1    2    3   4
1    2    3    3
Prearpation of detailed
training plan.
Prepn. of seope &
sequence for trns
materials in
cotLaboretion WI OSAWK,
CCIND & ucuEu.
Designing tng materials
(phase 1, science, math
& English, grades 6-8).
Production, trial &
duptieatfon of video &
audio tapes and printing
of materials.
Procurement of eqpt for
RTC9.
Proc of eqpt. for stdy
ICERD develops an
external evaluation
scheme for Distance
Learning Pilot stdy.
Internal Evaluation Unit
develops sumative _y
evaluatlon scheme for
training sessions.                        
Training of leaders
(trainers of trainers).                                                                                                             - _        -    - _ _ _ _
Leaders train trainers
at seven RTCs.
Trainers train teachers
at District training
centers.
Intro, of prog. &
distribution of diet.
learning materials.
Devt. of trng mat.
(phase 1I, science &
ma'th, grades 4-5).



At.iy                                                                           -  -                                                                           -   -
P   etofe tve  nes          To  Ie                 Yea r 2                vow  3                Year 4                 To _                  Ye S   ew  , 
Activity             1  2            4  1  23   4  1  234   1  234   1  23   4112                                                                                2  3  4
____ ____ ____ ____ __   1 2     3    42                                                                                                                                 3
Leadwer train treinwes
at  sven RTCs.
Trainers train teach___
at D strfot tratning
Distributfon of distea__
_______                                                                                                      __                     _                        I          F--'| 
tewataten sttaiV.
* * 7 =    = == f t
sfo*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..



-93 -
4                                                                          Annex~~~~~~~ sb
MONITORING AND ASSSSMEN OF THE TEACHER TRAIN1NG COMPONENT
Benerat Oblectives                             iteria far Asseosment                       ,ods o    snt
The overall objective of this cpenent Is    Achievemnts of he e objectivs ay be             The folloIdng mthods would
to iqprove the quality of teaching and       directly evaluated by the extent to Wheh      be utiltzed to enble project
consolidate advancemmnts in Curricula design  professionat actvities @f the varieus        achievements to be
and exofnation practiees through              agecies lnvolved in Teacher Training         affectivey evaluated:
reinforement of the capabilities of the     conform with the national strategy and
General Directorate for In-servie Training   poliefes of the Hfgher Couittee for            1. Observation of training
(DDIST) to dwelop a varfety of finov tive    Training and are prioritfied end coordinated       activities.
teacher trainino practices and associated     into amual integrated training plans.        2.  Interviems with key
materials, which arm:                                                                           personnel of various
-   Consistent with the Philosophy and       These can  elso be assessd by the extent to       cooperating Dfrectorates
rationale of Tescher Training in Eqypt.  which:                                            and Centers with KaE.
-   Suitable for GIST's natfinal In-service                                                3.  Inspection of strategies,
Teacher Training Progt-m.                *   Nmbrers of the coordinating agencies,          intesrated plans for
*   Applicable to all Governorates, based on     especially those of the Planning and          teacher training, ad
the results of the pflot distance            Instructiornl Design Unit within ODIST.       trafning materials.
education program in 3 Governorates.         can determine and communicate needs and
-   Appticable to a variety of training          skills that are appropriate for teachers
programs for education personnel (other      at each level and for each subJect area.
than teachers).
-  GDISTfs newly estaboished units can
specify and pruduce new training
activities and materials in awcordance
with desired criterfa.
- ewly developed materials provide a good
model for the production of similar
materials for training teachers for
other subjects and other personnel
(i.e., principats, laboratory
technicians, etc.).
SascifIc Oblectivas                          Criteria for Assessment                       Nethods of Assessment
1. Assist the ODIST In establishing, within  Achfevements of these objectives my be        The following methods would
NOE, the capacity to plan, design,       evaluated by the extent to which menters of   be utilized to enable project
produe, and utilze new trafning          ODIST:                                        achievements to be
materieals, and to  oprove the scope and                                               effectively evaluated:
qtality of these materials.              -   related staff from CCI. and NCEEE are
2.  Support inpravements In teacher training      able to specify ard design innovative    1. Observation of the
practiees that are eonsistent with            training materials to meet supervfsors'      training strategies and
current developm ents In Currfeulas          and teachers' needs including materials       selected peckages of
textbooks, and exemination practices of      for self study.                               specific trafning
basic educatfon system.                  -  are able to supervise and mcnitor the          materials.
3.  lmprove the detivery of in-service            overall development and administration    2.  Interviews with
teacher training materials at the            of training programs conducted by the         administrative and
Governorate and local levels through the     Trainers of Trainers at the Regional          professional staff of
training of teachers and trainers of         Training Centers and by Trainers of           GDIST including writers
trainers for all Governorates.               Teachers at the Local district levels.        and developers of
4. Upgrade the skills of exfsting teachers        are abe to plan and execute a pilot           training materials.
and fnprove teaching prectices as a step     distance education project In 3           3.  Interviews with
towards eanancing instructionat quatity.     Governorates .                                 leadersitrainers sho
5. Assist GDlST to develop Its ability to                                                       conduct various training
pltan, impleent, mane, and evatuate a                                                      program.
pilot project for distance e*&=saen
progra  for the in-service training of
teachers.



-94-
Amex
| 8"cf ic outcom                                                     torlnNdaimAewii
I.  Improved Cmmunfication ed coodinatifn   1.   ne ytar sler proect effectiv_ns:  t .  Sedemml  wtings with
among variow Directote  cnd agencs           All prties Involved with in-slece             key NIO  offfelte,
involved in Teahr Trainino (CCi,             training of tahers  wuld be wrking in         Director of Centers Od
*iCUE, mIST, U8S & SAVN).                    harmoy   n the  elcent of                     Director ot In-ervice
2.  Institutimlialction within NOE of *           coordinated a   InteGrated techr              Tohr Training Pregrao
systes for daloping en delivering            traInitng pltn.                                for th purpose of
teacher training prres by key group    2.  Two years after project tefetiveess             reviewfing, clrifying end
of people In the curriculu armes of          All stall of the four newly establhed         resolving Issu.s In
science, methematics end English, do         units within MIT would be trained wd          project  imlaitetion.
have deveped protessfotn  suppt              poess prolesionsl suport skills.          2. Sedmaul progress
*k;lts end a shared understanding of the     Tm  letdes d speciatlsts lor                  reports intluding
deasired tchwr practices for each            Sciencs   athematics and English  ould         alyses o training
partfcultr curriculu  ares.                  be trained *nd able to begin d teloping       needs of super  4s  and
3. Stall of the CDISI skilled in using            prototpes lor oibject specfic training        teachers.
modem tedmtologcal lacilitis to plan,        mterials.
design wnd detlop high qualtty training  3. Ouring 3rd year of the project:
materials lor Science, Mathematics ard        (a) All MIST professional staff would
English for grades 4-8.                           be able to ue capters  nd other
4. Training of (70)  ational and Reglonal             modem tecntolgies as a raturat
leders (Trainers o@ Trainers), nd 3800           port of their work to assist with
Trainers (Supervisors) uwth practical             their planing, design, writing,
experlonce of teachinftrafnfng methods            editing and adinistratien of
for the subjects of Siene, Mthemtics              training coures.
and English that are taught In grades 4-      (b) The first two packages of training
8.                                                materials in Science and Mathemtics
5. five packages of multimedia teacher                for grades 4 and 5 would be
training materialts nctuding vide-               produced.
cassttes, transportatin, audio           4. During 4th year of the projects
cassettes, and written mrusals for            (a) Training of 70 national ard regional
Science, Mathematics end English taught           leaders (trainers of trainers) would
in grades 4-8.                                   be completed.
6. Pilot project, In 3 Governorates, with         (b) Leadrs train 3800 trainers at 7
its detailed speciffeation (objectives,          RTC.
targets and wvatuatien criteria) In          (c) Distributien of distance teeming
which 35 district-tevel studcy cantors            materials to all targeted teachers
are equipped with resource materials and          of Scienc awd Mathematics in 3
facilities to au;port practical training          Governorates at 35 district centers.
for teachers.                                (d) The remaing packages of training
moterists (Science, Mathintics and
English) for grads 6-8 would be
(e) Trainers train about 50,000 teachers
of Scienc and Mathematics for
grades 4 ard S at all district
training centers.
S. ouring 5th year of the projects Actions
listed In 4a, 4b, 4c and 4a above ould
be repeated in the 5th year for Science,
Mathemstics and Engtish for grades 6-8.



-95 -
ORGANIATIONAL STRUCT  FOR IN-RVICE TEACHER TRAINING
plo44OR Saldoasmbip) I
se                                                               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sco
The Minister    @                            L I               l
I                                    comr~~~~I 
_  rsu                                                            -              .
Aul.VsalE B n            UO                                                                                                    1     
Aob        isslu        PsSad       Cl.A-                          s       b.IaAWatu               Wt l4elk    0.r-------
Anlut  Vioa  DUPIU  K bGe                                      DAt 
In   T1      TrainingJ                                                          ------  ____       ____   
*M.IaUdtTC
A-                  , I                     A             }Iko,
-Al-_                        reDSni       C     Al-reAlmomr_          b        Sac    itnlF ~ ru4                       
Al4itut fel -lil            _     " DG t    llt*bDAngAmdl           i     z       m"   unm 1hit   Fleb               -Am
AiWVts    0--d Al4aroudSWmm0
A.,,.y .          o S- w et  -S. Sla             Mi et ab  -Svox    Pouat    F                                         Red Su
D3,t o      -                                    D"bhour    _   rX                                    O -
S h i SnXita              -                      Sbubts Bhdt
bienfot                                          lkiA1.DuWS_
KROt Hmdet
Wadi A  Natsou  -               'Dttaa            C
DlaUlct 1C.    GovemoratoGOeua,GrOm                 Mtlt TC.    OOWOwSl  G0w   at4  (DiatFt 1tC. S             o*tRlsatu  mc aSaR1
(DLPP      8.md by KIC Srad aby ETC Semd IV ETC    DLI)        sawd byETClousd by ET     (L?P        Stw"d by WTC  8eta. by WTC



-96 -
Am 
INSllllJlONAL DEVELOPMENT IN MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION AND PLANNING COMPONENT
1.          Provided below is background information and attached are draft terms of
reference for the development of a mastr plan for educadonal planning and the developnm  of
an integrated education management information system (EMIS). The UNDP-fnanced study to
develop this master plan should be conducted prior to project effectiveness (the start of I)DA
credit disbursement) by a consultant or a group of consultants with experience and knowledge of
educational planning and maagement, the MOE orgaizational and fimctional environment, and
information technology for the development of management information systems. The study s
expected to require about 4-6 person-months and should be conducted in close collaboration with
CDEPI management and specialized staff. The study should include the definition of a phased
and gradual implementation plan for the development of the EMIS and complete procuremeXt
documents in accordance with applicable Egypdan and IDA pr    guidelines and
procedures.
The Planning Proces
2.          The decision making process in MOE requires a well-developed institutional
capacity to prepare short-, medium- and long-term plans for educational programs. A functional
analysis of the decision making process is a necessary first step to enable planners to identify
major obstacles and propose solutions. Such an analysis should take into consideration several
existing phenomena, such as:
(a)   the compartmenlized nature of MOE, at both the diwan (cental) and mudiriya
(regional) levels, and the subsequent fia on of MOE's problem solving
system;
(b)   the presence of several parallel data collection processes;
(c) the limitation of educational planning to a system of fiscal control and preparation
of annual estimates for the chapter (bab) three capital investment budget; and
(d)   the absence of an institutionalized mechanism to utilize data in planning and in
anticipating the needs for various inputs of the education system (e.g., personnel,
physical facilides, equipment, financial resources, etc.).
3.          A proposed master plan should highlight such issues and attempt to oudine an
approach to tackle them through streamlining of the interrelated functions and processes. An
integral component of this plan would be a proposed program of staff development and technical
assistance for the various targeted directorates and units within MOE, at the diwan and mudiriya
levels, that are involved in planning and policy analysis.
Research and Policy Analysis
4.          Proper planming and management processes in MOE would be strengthened by the
Research and Analysis Directorate under CDEPI, whose principal functions would be to identify
and conduct policy isues in need of investigation and interpret research findings for policy
implications. The proposed master plan shall take into consideration the role of this directorate



-97-
Annex
In com ni        and di         findig to poliy maker and plan. It should also
outie the Wbasic rquir       for staff devlopmnt and technical assstace to develop thi
dectorae a    in    tionzed ca ty for utilig EMIS-based research and analysi,
devloping ducatn        at, and updating tie rech agenda.
EMIS Development
S.           The instituto on and fuer development of an EMIS requie that spedal
consideraion be given to the followng:
(a)   the scope of the EMIS:
) the fumtional (operational, finacial and administieve) rqurements for
educadonal managment, with spedal emphasis on planning, policy
analysis ad research/decision making requirements;
(f)   the systems and processes to carry out the above functons;
(di)  the infor         quim     of tfiese systems/processes and the level a:
which the data will be collected and/or stored (e.g., student, personnel,
cost,         S and physical fclties data at the class, school, Wara
(district) and/or mudiriya level);
(iv)   volume, timing, and fiequency of data collection, as well as repordng
(v)   detminatio of computed sector indicators to be inclued in the EMIS
data base to aid the dedsion making process;
(vi)   terfacing  d informaton flow  qirements bewen MOE and otier
entities dealing with the differet aspects of the education sector, such as
religious schools, universties, etc.;
(vii)  the archiving and intion of relevant historical data available on paper
records;
(viii)  the organizational and service structres to support the above, and the
desired ouus and analyses to be performed.
(ix)   huma resource (and other support) requre_ mts for the system at the
dhian and nmdirlya leveis;
(x)   traini  needs for the users and technical staff;
(xi)  technical aisce requirement, epecially with respect to software
application de l ; and
(xii)  an Implei    schedule with reic phasing and gradual expansion of
die system.



- 98 -
The plan shall Include the development of specific recommendations for
simplifying and streamlining the process of data collection by various users within
MOE and reducing the multiple forms and parallel systms of data collection. I
should also define decentralized functions, proces and local infornation needs.
Furthermore, the plan shall address wchange management" requirements and
technology transfer needs and prorities and formulate speci& recommend ions in
this area.
(b)   data colecion and validation procedures. This involves the development of
simplified and integrated form(s) for data coliection and the defmition of
responsibilities, based on the new and simplified procedures and systems, of MOE
and of agencies outside MOE (such as GAEB, for school building informaion),
and developing procedures for validation of data;
(c)   information technology requirements:
(i)   additional basic software requirements (such as data base management
system, operating system, application development software,
communication software, etc.)
(ii)   additional hardware requirements for the Computer and Information
Statistics Department (CISD), other MOE directorates, and the mudiriyas;
(Iii) the above should be based on open system technology standards, to
facilitate compatibility with subsequently acquired technology;
appropriate data base "platform" should be selected soon to facilitate the
standardization of mudiriya and central level EMIS development;
iv)  facility and environmental requirements such as air conditioning, electric
stabilizers, etc.; and
(v)   comnication requirements both within the Ministry's headquarters and
between the Ministry's and external information systems; per example,
consideation should be given to linking the MOE system, tirough a
dedicated telephone line, to Cairo University's computer system.
Cooperation With UNDP on the Establishment of a Technical Secretariat
6.          In early June 1992, the Minister of Education chaired a meedng that included
representatives of various donors to MOE (i.e., USAID, ODA, UNICEF, UNDP, GTZ and
IDA), MOE's senior managers and project numagers, and the Special Advisor to the Minister Dr.
Amin Mubarek, along with Adviser Dr. Samiha Peerson. The purpose of the meedng, as
defined by the Minister, was to develop a consensus on ways to enhance MOE's institutional
capabilitia in planning within the framework of Egypt's human resources development strategy.
7.          During the meeting, UNDP proposed to finance the establishment of a technical
sectariat within MOE, to which a number of donct representatives reacted. The main issues
raised  glighted (i) the need to avoid duplication of efforts and existng institutional functions;
and (i) the need to retin the auomnomy of the existng project implementation units. The
participans agreed on the importance of the Minister's objective and on the need to further



-99-
develop its details, Including the UNDP proposal, through follow-up meetings with the full
participation of the MOE leadership. For that purpose, the Minister agreed to form a team of
senior MOE officials and Edptian experts to coordinate with donors and translate the above
agreements into an action plan with sufficient financing to attract appropriate national experdse.
The proposed secretariat would be consistent with IDA's objective of strengtenin CDEP and
consolidating its functwns, although frther discussions are needed with Egyptian wd UNDP
officials to determine the specific roles of thosa agencies.
Proposed Civil Works
8.          Due to a lack of existing space within existing MOE facilities, the proposed
component would support the renovation and upgrading of the EMIS facilities, including the
construction of some new space, to be located in close proximity to the existing offices of the
Central Directorate for Educational Planni  & Information (CDEPI). Provided below is a
review of MOE's physical facility expansion study prepared by its Physical Planning Unit (PPU)
to support these activities.
9.           It is clear that the context for the proposed building design is unusual, in that a
primary objective of the architectural study must have been to explore the feasibility of providing
additional space for CDEPI's EMIS activities in one partiular location, within distance limits
imposed by the equipment to be housed in the new facilities, and this within MOE's existng site
boundaries, with all its given constraints. Some of these constraints include the recently
completd computer center on the ground floor, next to the proposed building site (thi center
nmust stay operational durng any construction program) and the existence of MOE's formal
meetng room across the courtyard from the computer center (which must also remain
undisturbed by construction). Both MOE functions to remain operational are housed in ground-
level strucures.
10.         The proposed building design focues on the fourth side of the above-mentioned
courtyard, with a four-level strucure (ground level plus three stories) to replace the existing
ground-level wing and a structural frame designed to carry three additional stories for future
expansion. It should be noted that the existing computer insallation is to be relocated in the new
EMIS facility upon completion of construcdon, since the existing space is far from ideal for its
intended purpose. A serious disadvantage of the proposed building location is the narrwness of
the courtyard onto which it faces, which limits the depth of the proposed addition because of Its
proximity to the existing MOE high rise (a problem which is not shown in any of the drawins
provided for review). This situation is best studied in a three-dimensional model which includes
all building elements at both stages of developmen (existing and proposed).
11.         There is at least one alterative to the location studied (which would be studied in
the same level of detail as the firt option, to permit comparative costing of both alternatives and
to allow selection of the most cost-effective option during the appraisal mission) involving the
construction of a new building near MOE's main entrance gate, over the area which is currently
used for parking. The advantage of the second alternative is the possibility to create a single
location for all branches of MOE requiring close computer center access. Both alternatives can
provide the physical proximit to CDEPI required by the equipmeit and each offers different
advantages and disadvantages.



- -  - ---------    l 
,~~~~~I                           gm Sool*  *W  
I I l 6t,Z.011    An l 
*ik' liiim :gjji
.  -li  ifl iiHi           I 
L!jJ1111L!JUj!qJ mm
:ID
O~~~f



-101 -
ORGAZATIONAL SUCTURE OF THE MISTRY OF EDUCATION
(Govemorat)
GOVEFtltORATE             t(MAUHAAFAZA)
a ovwmor 
Othw r Doorat                      .       . 
Heath Elvaticity.
Indue"t   Ste.                  }Education C tte.
EDUCA1IONAL DIRECTORATE                                        (MUOIRIYA)
Frst Undersecretary. Undesertaty. or Director General1
|Pflme| | Prp. | |GTeche Se   Educ" 8ev   ;             1    I       Tc      |
_______   ech ma[Fin SAdmn    Tech See
EJ.rnentary                                Statistics  Arabia    sudgot      Panig
Kindergart                                 Job Coe. Math         Personnel   Publi Rel
SpecaiEd                                              Scince    Training     Legal Affairs
-'cIwoo                                               HNam Ea                Clulzen Sewv
DISTRICT                                            (IOAARA)
CLASSROOM         (FASL)            Ata il  eed  ntesz
Head|Teadsof the dirc  rate   distriCt
(In law  rlislrlcts}.   _chat



-102-
Annex 6b
KEY COMPONENT MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
Expected                      es=Iwd to n                                          Indicators
Outcomes                                           of luptementation               of Outcomes
Strengthen HOE capseity    Fonmalation of an          Formation of a committee      Completed plan for
for:                      Institutional Development   with term  of reference to    strengthening MNE
Planning                Program (IOP)               prepare an overall program    management with strategY
Nanagement              (a) for MOE headquarters;  for strenthening planning    and details for:
Polley Analysis         (b) for governorat  MOE    & menagement within tho        (a) a management
offfees.                   NME  includings               training program at
(a) Mnagement & plaMing    headquarters and In the
training for snifor staff;    governorates;
Cb) priority requirements   (b) priority  nent
for the further delopment  teasks for the EMIS.
and utilization of the
ElIS.
Managemnt Training          Management trainrig          IMPROVED MAMAEMIT
Program at Headquarters     workshops held at            PRACTICES:
and Governorates            headquarters and in          (a) Department
governorates for senior MOE   performnce objectives
staff. Topics such as:       (b) Department/staff
- Management strategies      workplans
for iproving performanme     (c) Performmee
- Strategic planning,        monitoring system
policy monitoring &
anatysis
-  lrvwing operations &
Ii _____________________  ________________________     supervision                   ___
Expand & enhance the      Development of a plan for   Establishment of a working    Implementation of a
EMIS and its utilization   ENIS based on priority     group with senior             comprehensive program of
needs for improving         representatives from         ENIS development which
planning & managment        operational and planning     includes:
D!1xctions in basic         departmnts of the Basic      (a) procurement of
educstion.                  Education Division with      hardware and software;
CDEPI technical staff.       (b) installation and
staff training;
Installation and training    Prepare & implement a       (c) development and
progr  for an improved      coprhenswive plan for EMIS   availability of quality
ERIS at headquarters &      development at headquarters   reports: (i) status
gvernorates.                and in the governorates      reports related to
that mets priority           department functions;
planning and m_agent          Mii) monitorins of key
needs.                       system Indicators of
access, equfty and
quality of basic
education; and Ciii) use
of informtion for
Ianslysis.



-103-
AM
MONITORING & ASSESS
OF THE INSTfftMONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
| Ceneral Oblect1ve8                      Criteria for Assessment                 Methods of Aessnt
The Overall objective of this ceopont    Achievemnts of these objectives may be   The following methodk woutd
is to Increase the efficieney of Basic   directly evaluated by the extent to      be utitized to enobte
Education Swhsetor as a step towards      which the various Directorates          project achievements to be
increasing th  efficielcy of NOE as a     responsible for planning the various    effectfvely evaluated:
whole. To achieve this it will be         types & levels of education within NMO
necessary to do the following:            are able to coordinate their activities   1.  Interviews with senior
(a) Consolidate the role of CDEPI In     through Institutional Develtqxent            personel of various
coordination amg various              Program set forth by the Technieal          Directorates and Units
Directorates on issues related to     Comittee set up for this purpose.            within NMOE.
coprehensive educational planning                                             2. Review plans end reports
(i.e., planning the different types    More specifically, achievements of         that are issued by
and lelves of the Education System.    these objectives can be evatuated by        CDEPI, E, and other
(b) Establish coordination aqn all MOE   the extent to which:                         units as a result of the
sectoral divisfonm &  their                                                        various plannfng
Directorates which are charged with    *   Senior officials of the various         functins, and examine
planning, as well as beteen these         Units (First under secretaries, and     the various sceneries
Directorates & CDEPI, within an           General Directors) facilitate the        that are proposed.
integrated and coprehensive               operational functions of their      3.  Interview middle-level
planning structure.                       employees within a coordinated and       staff in various
(c) Assist OE to strenothen _manament,        institutionalized system.               Directorates to identify
planning, and policy analysis.        *   CDEPI can develop and execute            botttenecks and gaps in
(d) Strengthen the institutional             short-term, medium-term & long-term      the system.
ecpacity to develop nd utilize an         national plans for educational
Education Managmet Information            developaent.
System (ECIS).                        *   6ES can utilize available expertise
to define clearly how serious
issues in Basic Education can be
analyzed and assessed.



-104-'
|Seitffe OblstJves/leasnrs                  Cr iterI ftr t ssA229nt'                   Nethods of Assessment
1.  Establish within  MOE a Technfeal       Achievements of these objectives my be   The ftollowing mthods would
Comittee representing all               evaluated by the exnt to tAich:            be ut1i11d to enable
D1rectorates involvd fn pltming                                                    project achevments to be
for Basic Eduwatin, to deelop an        *   COUPI, 6ES, and other Diretorates       ffectivetly evaluated:
Institutional Development Progrm            within MOE responsible for plnning
(IOP). This program would aim at:           the various educatal inputs            1.  Interview sen0or
(a) Examining planning & mangment           (e.g., teachers, materials,                officials in NMOE (CDOP,
functions at Central, then at           textbooks, schools, etc.) are able         GUS, and othor
Governorate levels, to determdne        to defifn  needs, prepare plans, wd        Oifectorates involved In
gaps between what is desired and        present policy options to address          plaming) to verify f
what the system currently               these needs.                               gaps In fnformation have
provides.                           *       Gaps in information needs for          been identfifed, and
(b) Specifying information needs for        proper pltmino and management              whether plan have been
both Mational Levels by type &          funetions have been adequately             prepared to address
time needed & the strategy to           defined & specified for National           these needs.
expand the system.                      and Governorate levels by type and    2.  Review various reports
tC) Developing a staff trafning             time needed.                               and analyses performed
program based on technical and      *   Key personnel involved in plaming          and various policy
managerial requirements & the           for basic educatfon at the Wudiriya        options ihich are
strategy for its implementation.        Offices of Education are able to           presented to decision
(d) Specifying system requirements          utilize information collected as           makers.
(staffing, software, & hardware)        part of ENIS in management and         3.  Review the list of
and the desired outputs and             decision making regarding various          education indicators
analyses to be performed.               educational inputs such as                 that is developed to
l e) Determining basic education            personnol (incLuding teachers &            monitor progrss made in
indicators to aid decision-             supervisors), student teacher              various educational
making processes.                       ratios, overcrowdedness of classe,         Iputs or outputs, to
2.  Equip several tarieeted Directorates        enrollment projections,                     determine if serious
within MOE wth tools to address             distribution of materials such as           issues in basic
needs of the Basic Educatfin sector,        textbooks, etc.                            education are being
and define policy options & actions    *   Different categories of Personnel           adequately monitored and
to address these needs, as well as          who are trained under the project          addressed.
the tools to transfer existing              are able to perform their duties       4.  Review Leaflets and
policy options and resources into           efficiently.                               brochures on the Basic
appropriate & efficient actions         *   A list of educational indicators is        Education subsystem
through a process of accountability.        developed and used in routine              published by the MOE and
3.  Enhance the capacity of CDEPI staff         evaluation and monitoring of                the various Mudiriyss.
and Governorate Staff in how to             effectiveness of various inputs and   5.  Review the annual
collect, process, analyze, and              reform program  such as:                   statistical yearbook to
report reliable and timely deta.            effectiveness of resource                  determine the coverage
4.  Inprove institutional capacity to           distribution methods, iwproving             of the data bese and the
manage basic education utilizing            educational access and retention,          qualfty of the work.
computer based EMIS for:                    reducing regional disparities,         6.  Interview technical
(a) Population & enrolltent                 achevment levels of students               staff to assess their
forecasting,                            improving the efficiency of                level of performance and
(b) Resource planning & Management.         teachers, fiproved distributfon of         satisfactfon.
(c) Facility, material & teacher            new schools and maintenance of
planning.                               existing schools, etc.
(d) financing & economics of            *   The Research Directorate staff
education.                              develop a research agenda for a
(e) Education                               ffve year period, and can design
quality/Efficiency/Access/              and impLement field studies for
Equity/CrOW&_ness, etc.                 assessment of educational quality
5. Estabtish within CDEPI an adequate            nd investigate issues of major
technical documentation capability          concern in the system, and are able
and reference materials in                  to make policy recodmendations for
supporting polict  analysis and             senior decision makers in OE.
plaming.                                *   Education deta base has bean
6. Develop an integrated data base for          expanded to include data en
basic education.                            population, examinations, personnel
7. Enhance technical servfces capacity          (especially teachers), teacher
in support of EMIS.                         training, student#s age, physical
facilities, etc.)
* CDEPI and Wudiriys staff are able
to enter and process data
accurately, and produce retevant
reports at the time When the
results are need d.



- 105-
emcffleOuc-                            luau                                      bnitarinsotfim
1. lmproved comuunatcaton and            1. SEfore Project Effectivene f ss     1. Semiannua moetings with
coordiNratin - ng verous                 The Inatitutfens kvslpnt                key MOE officials from
Directorates fnvotved in Plaminme        PFrgrm   would be dveloped tb the       COEPI onS, and
Basic Education (COEPI, GS, asic         Ttchnical Coi nttee nd the role of     Nudi.4yas for the
Education, Ptanifg end POlloiwup         COUPI GE$, ond othe Directorate.t       purpose of reveviung,
Directorate & Coordination               would be olear.                         ctrifyng, a
divisions.                           2. Dwrng the Pro3jct:                       rsortving 18 ,  ih
2.  1rprved planing practices at the        Th qeiffc objective. of this             my aris dring
lational a  at Govenwrart letvete        covnt we to be ochieve dirng            imyt ariseatni
ad the development of short-term,        the project period In * gradl ad  2. Smianul prores
mediun-term & tong-term educatial        Incremental mrr. The staff              reports fnctuding
plans.                                   dmvelopmant progr  fnclt_w about        altyses of ach1eonts
3.  nproved mnsgement practices at           1U5 p        _seVmn    of short-torm   to date, to detemne
Natironl & Governwate tevls.             training and 21 persnyers of           how effectively th
4. Trrined senior and middl level            lon-tem training for the Central       project in progreaing.
staff in:                                level, awd 1700 person/Imnths of
(a) Edcational plannng &                short-ter  trainfng at the Nafrfya
management,                          leve. This trainfng proem  nd
(b) policy analysis and resareb,        the asocated technical tssitance
and                                  prorm is to be i     _emmtd over a
(c) systems design & epplicationa.      5-yar period. The deta iled snal
at both national and Gavernrate          targets are presented In Tables
levets as a result of the                    in the SO.
foplemtntation of th  local and
overseas staff deelopment progres
as outlined in Annx_
S. lRrvwed reportin practices of
statistical information, computd
basic education indicators, end
analyts of data and projectiona at
both National and Governorate
tevels,
6. Rlproved capability In resarch and
analysis of data in key Issuo  In
Basic Edcation (access, equity,
wastage, allocation, crowdedess,
projectiona, physical facilittes,
etc.)
7. Integrated ENIS that is fully
operational and sustainable with Its
necessary resources (humn, hardware
& software).
8. An operational docwmntation
facility stpporting CDEP! staff and
other units within MOE.



- 106 -
Amx 6d
TECHNICAL COMMIATTEE ON INSTlTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Badl ound
1.          The lhird Five-Year Development Plan (1992/93-1996197) ains at upgrading
educational management hrough raising staards of planning, management and implementaon
at fte central and local levels.
2.          Government has identified four priorities for educational development In the Plm.
While continuing to expand access, the MOE is committed to improving the quality of education
and maidng more efficient use of the resources available to the education sector. Specifically, he
MOE priorities are to (i) continue increasing access to basic education by providing more school
places; (ii) improve the lerning environment of schools by improving school maintenance,
reducing overcrowding and multiple shifts, and making better use of existing facilities; (Iii)
upgrade teachers' pedagogical skills and the quality of instruction delivered; and (iv) improve
educational planning and management within the Ministry, particularly at the governorate level.
3.          The ability of the Ministry to meet these objectives, particularly those related to
improving the quality of instructional services at the classroom and schools, requires that ere be
effective analysis; interdepartmental cooperation in developing plans of action; strategies for
communicating and linking policy objectives from the central; to the governorate, to the ditict
and school levels.
4.          Analysis of the planning, policy analysis and management in the Ministry have
identified five consraints on institutional capacity in tese areas:
(a)   inadequate number of personnel trained in planning, policy analysis, and
management, and an inability to retain such individuals once they are trained;
(b)   complete lack of coordination with respect to educational planning, due miy to
overlapping responsibilities of different departnents and units, and uncertainty
about lines of authority and responsibility;
(c)   organizational barriers to cooperation and the sharing of information between
units; and between headquarters and the regions;
(d)   lack of institutional strategy for operationalizing policy and plan objectives into
management action plans; and lack of technical capacity for monitoring and
evaluating policy implementation;
(e)   inadequate incentives for using data in planning;
S.         TIhe Ministry of Education is therefore establishing a Committee within the
framework of the Higher Commission for Training chaired by the Minister, with the task of
developing an Institutional Development Progrm  to strengthen planning and maage, focus
partlarWly on meeting Flve-Year Plan objectives for basic education. This committee would
also serve as the counterpart team for the PIU Inutional Development Coordinator.



- 107-
Annex
Membersbip
6.          Membership on the committee will Include high level persons selected from the
following units:
(a)   General Education Sector Undersecrtaies including:
-     Primary & Preschool Directorate
-     Preparatory School Directorate
-     Literacy Directorate
-     Secondary School Directorate
(b)   Central Division of Education Planning & Information:
-     Information & Computer Services Directorate
-     Research Directorate
-     Planning and Follow-up Directorate
(c)   Administive Affairs Sector:
Administrative Development including organization and personnel and staff
taning
(d)   Undersecretary from a Governorate
(e)   School head from primary and/or preparatory school
7.          One member of this committee shall be selected as a full-term coordinator of the
ID component and be a member of the overall Project Steering Committee. In addition to the
permae  members, the Committee will consult closely with: the Ministry of Planning
(Education unit); the Center for Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development; the
National Center for Educational Examinations and Evaluations; and the National Center for
Educational Research and Development.
Technical Support Team (CSI)
8.          The Committee will be assisted in its work by a Technical Support Team (TS1),
which will be staffed with full-time professionals with seretarial support. The TST will include:
(a)   a full-time specialist on Education Planning and Management;
(b)   a consultant on Organizational Development and Training;
(c)   a consultant on Educational Management Information Systems;
(d)   dhree full-time counterpart staff, assigned from the Ministry of Education, to work
with the specialists;
(e)   a bilingual secretary;



-108-
Annex 6d
M     offie space for seven peons; and
(g)   tee computer sytems for word pcing and aalycal work  (spadsheet,
graphi, statcal analysis and a data be maager).
Terms ot Reerence
(a)   Review the natonal policies and Five-Year Plan goals for education, and xamine
the plaing and manatrt ad hnvations necsary to
effectively implement those goal.
(b)   Identify and analyze constan  to efflictve m n t, and examine strategic
options for Iproving e qualiy of policy analysIS, planning and magement
within the Ministry for central, governorate, district and school levels;
(c)   Prparation of a prelimiy report on the suegy for basic education subsector,
sub^med to the Minister of Edcaton by June, 1993.
(d)   Prepare proposal for planning and mangement  ing program for the MOE
senior and middle-level staff at central and regional levels. lbis program should
be action-based and result in secific changes In organizational behavior and
outpu. Mme program should provide deilh concerning trainin objecdves,
participants, time and sewquence, locations, te Identification of trainers and
csting. To be completed by Setmber 1993.
(e)   Prepare th ouine of an action plan for the development of management
lnfrmation syms at govewrate and central levels to be completed by
Septmber 1993.
(f)    Compledon of the fnal report on the InstIonal Development Program,
including the manm  training progm  and acton plan for the EMIS, by
September 1993.
Stating flue and Duration
(a)   The Commite was formed in Januay 1993, and is expected to begin its work by
March 1993.
(b)   It will mit Is preliminary srategy report by April 1993, and its final report in
September  1993.
(c)   The Committee would condtin  to function as a standing committee for a period of
not more than two years folowing the sbmission of its report. Its fuction will
be to coordina he iimpl tation of the o ional development, training
and EMIS Isfttonal development program.



- 109-
Consultts to the Techl Co _mittee on Institotional Devdopment
Terms of Reference
A. Expert on Educaon   lanning and      eent
The Chakperson of the Techdical Commi_te on institutional Developmeat
The e-pert wil work closely with both the Division of Educational Planning
and Information and the Division of General Bducation and will consult wifth
the Ministry of Plaming and Fmance (education unit).
Duration:      12 months, startng in March 1993 (under UNDP finamcing)
Ph.D. with specializations in educational policy analysis, planning and
management with a minmum of 10 years experience in the field, and an
established reputation as an international consultant. He will lead the Technical
Support Team
Job Deugjiptio: *  Review: (i) the institutional framework for policy analysis, planning and
management for basic education; (ii) the linkage between policy and
straegic planning; (iii) organization of the Ministry in terms of planing
and management functions related to the national plan objectives of
universa access, equity, quality and efficiency.
*  Examine strategic options for financing and implementing government plan
objectives in basic education. This should include innovative approaches
and alternative modalities.
*  Recommend priority measures for strengthening the inplementation of
objectives to improve educational access, equity, efficiency and quality,
including communications and coordination at central, governorate and
school levels.
* Prepare a detailed outline of the substantive conteut of the management
training program that relates to functions of policy analysis, strategic and
operotiOns planning.
* Identfy priority information needs for strengthening planning and
management functions within deparms and at different levels. Define
these information elements and demonstrate how they would improve
decision making.
* Coordinate the preparation of a report on an overall institutional
development program for the Ministry of Education that will present a
strategy for improving planning and management for basic education.
* Manage the work of the Technical Support Team.
LIs:           English and Arabic



- 110 -
1L. Expert on Or DweoMwt ad ThEiw
dhe Chaiperson of the Techal Committee on Intional Development.
Ihe expert will work closely with te Geneal Educan Secor, the Ctral
Administrative Affairs Sector, and tie Division of Educational Plannin and
information.
6 person/months, statg   in March 1993 (under UNDP fiancing)
Oualificatbns:   Ph.D. with   ializatns in orgaonal development and management
taning with a minimum of 10 year experience in the field, and an established
reputation as an inteational consultamt.
Job D=criimn: 0  Review and help clarify Ministry policy and plan objectives; review and
clarify departmental fuctions and objecdves.
*  Examine organizational, personnel and resource requiremens and needs
for opionalizing educational policies and managemen objetves.
* Examine issues of plan and management coordination across departmental
lins, and between cenral, governorate and school levels.
*  Assist in the development of strategies for stren_ghning ma  at
both central, mudiriya and school levels, including such strategies as:
-  action-based management Waning to estabish operational objectives
and plans;
team work within and between departments and levels through
improved comniations;
- incentives within the personnel system for encouraging training and
performance;
- performance assessment at individual and departmental levels, and
methods of review and evaluation; and
- priority areas for improving use of hiformation in monitoring and
decision making.
* Prep -e an action plan for management training which will include:
obj4ves, topical areas, participants, orgnizion and dming, facilities
and trainers, and expected outcomes.
*  Contibute to a comprehensive institonal development program report.
English and Arabic



- 11x -
MI. Expert on Computer-Based Magemt Infmaon Systems
A      :dIMOM  The Charperson of the Technical Committee on hsutional Developmnt.
Ihe expert will work closely with the Division of Educatonal Planning and
Information, specifically the Diecte for Information and Computer
Services, and the GES.
Duration:      8 months beginng after June 1993 (under UNDP fincing)
On             Specializations in educational management information systems with a
minimum of 10 years of experien  and an established reputation as an
iternational consultant.
Job Deci r: To analyze the priorty information system   eirmets for improving
planning and managemen functions at headquarters and local levels, to develop
the specihcations for enhancing and expanding the existing information systems
and to prepare procurement documents for related goods and services in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines. Prepare an Action Plan based on
that analysis which will include:
-  priority functional (operational, financial and administrative) requiemen
for educational management, with special emphasis on policy analysis and
decision-making requirements;
the systems and processes presently in place to carry out these functions;
- the information requirements of those systems/processes, and the
procedures and timing for acquiring and processing that information;
- within the resource and organizational constraints, identification of priority
for the development and utilization of computer-based information systems
to improve management;
-  dmination of the design for the MIS including key data elements; the
procedures for collecting, processing, and utilizing information, including
the anual cycle and timing for this; the linkage to the existing school data
base and information system; and the expected outputs, or improvements
in planning and management anticipated;
- the organization and service structures to support the expanded information
system;
-  the facilities, hardware, and software requrements,  including system
development requirements; and the staff requrements including training
for system development, maintenamce and utilization.
Lgua:          English and Arabic



-112-
Amiex 6.
COMMllSEE ON INSTITMMONAL DEVELOAMENT
Pduca tlag   le talPltrnetg  |duPlicySpocls
Plamatag        Pu rgniztioa      l Doveltposat   TringSoals
Eslomtlose           Ptpe@tt                                          *eIaoset e 
R    -* l4  Compute t       8deet.                                       Sueeo er   tton 
SetYtoeg Dts.t cte
.-.Vt.cegt.t             tatalof
',                   i ~~~TECHNICAL 
Educational Plaunnin A Policy Specililst
OrganizatloncIl Development & Training Speciali5t
Education Management Information Specialist
Countexpart Support Staff (3)
Secretarial Services & FacilltI.u/5quipment
Consultative Bodies: CCIMD. ?CEBE. NCERD



INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOUPMNT COMPONT
Proposed Training Programs for MDE - Basic Education Sector Management
T_s
TM,                     VIA        smn                                                   ism  PWWp
MANAEMEfNT AND PUNNING
MANAGEMIW?
hp&7    mdII  w r    03WPJ        SR            851050baslajsaelws -IS           2 -  2...  2w-u- _3.   LEwd
0&adSwmlh.hp..Wma   Is~ Nbotb. Pmo      omVUDWU.SIaUS Ad    sPst                                 t       &a
NNINNM
1h__I uJieFha_  035, cI5EPI            DswSaX_mgIaeaI'm,n og5lm    1    To Udoes  2-mb, VW   Loa*
A.esm w..                           WcmatIouMs.d pcafcma.e.Cee o              -r do
OWRTIONS
opd_mAd*    wE,    Saldd.                  P e         os           30     4dm.   1 we&  Au=0  Ltc-
_ww N.rapmu                              IM.g thhsMIS  Sft modto _t_. sI p.rym        pee  So s.
MANAGEMENr INFORKATION SYSTEMS
SVWTEMS PlANNING & DESIGN
Nee*Asmw*        CISD   Midd      pod  ad'a work in dsytm photaps    10to  I *do.   4.wb Anua  LeeS
&%tusk m1S Pbof     aa        so E  '                                                        a *            so
S.f *osnit'vu -s4AOj*   C2SD Te.          sd pIaiad          _td,    20         4dma    I Wk A_N  Lca
JA   & f i.yp               *         pa   ursea (or meti.                   pee    '     ^
_        1          6         *     eao. laclecdla eg.lsg  ls ue-                     *                           | 
b4Dwf#Udb~~               6        la tte    nideaicua &                                *.tuo  * aO a
SEMINARS/SHIORT COUIRSES NIS    10     2da    1 Mo. Yta 1,3 Abrod    20 



INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Proposed Training Programs for MOE - Basic Education Sectdr Management
ToWa
TAG D                                                      Ammual No.    Thlme                    Tltaug
TYE                            STAFF                        DESCRIrPMON                   TWalu         p.vty.ar        flet.  (PIuWO)
MAANAGUEMENiTAND PLANNING
~0*dfBko          Wlof oJ mg WI  SesiorwaAgment,plnning  E         o       od m                et    3  27  81         twk           Ca          101
EMIS *pEmefeaJi                        ada^lnistation an  Imrig  mgment wfafsicn ysem
S*sfor1.pfr4ScbfQpmdgy                        statistics staff.        Local?oll;cy/prograstrategies  10*27-270      2weeb       Mud*           540
MANAGEMENTINFORJMATION SYSTEMS
APPLICATIONS DESIGN
N5dAmmt w          Technical and m4dle-level   A    igpdodty needs for applications
Dautbama, ujtg&esIenhignmanagement *bstf at    Desip of loca applation to supplement
SoeId       i        sslcuing of                          Centaly desiped sotwae     202754          I montk        Cairo       Z10
MIS MNAGEMENT
Splw   & DutuIA NmeYmai         Technical staff in tatistics  Managing ds. files, use and srty.
AIN CombojamIaw                           office         Data qlity assane  and control   4 *27 18        2weeks      Madiriya       770
EDUCATION APPLICATIONS
aLw.erhv*dew                  Staff                   Population projection student flows
&ssemwu ?fANWMd  & Maamn_t                 within
sai.applAw & $aimIe            the Plsnaig
Sctae. Uk  squ4 pext              Statistc,         flanSnIg and monitoring schoo reqUiVeIaWb
Ssjtfw, rTw 1w aSi..           Buic Education       in relation to population catchamat ares and
I_tawAslasppe             financing and             arolmetnb for bic inpub & service.,
TeacbnwMng,nspdcu                operations           based on pln objectivs, stadards, equity,
chuelfldmniqa.wIccatufunits                                 aud level of available resourcs
Scof Perfsnam                                 School efectivnes  in telation to resourcs   4 27 = 108  1 month       C(ro5
TOTAL TFAINON: IN CAIRO                      onf
TOTAL TRAINHNk AT MUDnRIYA                    a0 o
NOTE- 
1) TA *ad mIyek of namdlufj b'tahg, ecrrsifrsa fltw ye puied.
2) 50  /,eof 7* CUI,@J ea td w      beillao  be k  at dhe tr cin c ot de CDEPI, we a WzaUou rat of
39 presp  Avudlgad ei.nn 5.2 mEsrpa,.



INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Proposed Training Programs for MOE - Basic Education Sector Management
Targeted      TY"e r                                          Talmes                                         Training
TYPE                       Unit          Saff              DESCRIPTION                  /C,         Cycle     lme  Priod  flare  tp 
MIS MANAGEMENT
1uSd., mmar e*            CISD      Midde          Manago  dab file ue and sectrity.     10       2 does      2 w   Anual   Local
D11      ev cowpoII.mI                                  Data qality murae" ad ontr                     per     *
S    ,__nawmmgeuse~                  B 'Managingusers on netwok, manang use                        yer                *
S ofAsw,e inu _     *euw              *           of dik using opating stem utilite.                         *        ^       '          SO
EDUCATION APPUCATIONS
P., A Ewds Pavea            CISDRD,    Middle            Development of modals for forecsing   10        1 tie      4 wI  Aenn      Loca
&Ain P"_t    & MY kmn*   PFD & PED                              erolmts nd rsorce standards                    per 
rad*4 Temk', Mauda^,                                  Anabs4 of access, and scbool effectiven               yar
Pme,&Wos*eai no"                                                Aaelysis of reourem reuir                             '        ^       'eme
edEaMnU5i*fldw1eEE.                                                       Mdefl1ingdrstraegicoptios.                        B       ^       B           50
REXESRCH A"D ANALYSIS
Pc&Y aw e" PAWN"          RD       SeMlorAWiddle              Seting th ReaR    da         10        4pr.       2wks A d         ltocal 
Samyhamm&&gAW         RD  CISC         Middle      Poliqe""soa "dioes, same e                      *                   ^
A4_spss            *             '                      alsis of data, prsetation            B          B        ^
BIn ead  *m&ft *dfj*a                                 DeB ip.   d    uing on o          SBstes           B          B 
Mcm0v#pdlkimnsn           RD            .                            &resrchndings    *              B          *        *       *         100
8p"spep  RD,CiS,CISD                  Seminacse. Schol Effectivess, Pivate Cost   30    1 day pimo.          Annual  Lcal           5
GENERAL SKIUS
S.!fSwag Apjlkaion
etr          Ohl lliBmtkam         CDEPI    Lower          Computer sppatons and administrtive     30        2pJ'yr     2w    Annal   Locd
Of lee     JsAt/               &'5                                  training for suppot sta             *           *        *                 ISO
Enl8sh Lsngpat MlddlJ*wer Langua aing for pesos to train abrd                       20        2p6r.      6wC   Anu     Local        300
TOTAL LOAML TRAIOG (p/Ao)                  1073
TOTAL TRmAI1    AROAD(p/mo.)                 20
V Tne         eaM  Cea  Traiing Plan will be fer developed by the Taining Ad*o provided through te P.P.U before Project Sffecdtve s
TMe tWged direwates under thle GotB&XdutiobSxbte(GES) on. 1) PimagEAoXtion Dkedxstc (PED);ii) PtpntMy F.4matio 0Xedone;b                                         f
il) Secdary Edation Diecorte; bv) Coordination Diretoate for Prm  Educaton; and v) Coordination Directorate for Prepatory and Seoondary gucao
3/ 350 pAn.. of the local tralnngwill te bade ettlie *CDPI trainig center, with a uatin  ate of 20 prs   ptr sion at 3.S monts peyear.



- 116 -
A&Mx 6e
INSTUrIONAL DEVOPENT COMONENT
Proposed Tndaing Prorms for MOE - RkIb dt  ti  Secor _
Udt      T.ll
TOTAL             Cui       Cod
TYOFTIRAIING             IGATION   LIdofEf    USS           on       (S )
SHORT-TERM I CENTRAL
Mma!_gm E&*Iaofft          Cairo         270 pno         40        106
painWinso.m Sysms                 Cairo          3S5 plmo        404       142
Abroad          20 P/M*       62         no
system  ssk           COiVO         450  p/mo       40        1S
MUDIRIYA SHORT TERM
Maa.ageuu._t & ?ps..bg   MUa             540 p/no        2SO        13
Cairo         101 p/o         410      404
M.apinet I.f.ins    Systm.      Mudir            270 p/o         20       675
Cairo         79  p/mo        40        316
TOTAL      Ulls



-117-
Annex6f
EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
REQUIREMENT FOR COMPUTING HARDWAREISOFTWARE
Component Foreign Costs
(US$'OOO)
.   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5    TOTAL
I. CENTRAL LEVEL
(DIWAN)
Extension of central        90.0                20.0               20.0      130.0
hardware capacity
Local Area Network         40.0       10.0               40.0                90.0
(2 new LANs)
PC systems/ Work stations   10.0     40.0       20.0     20.0      20.0      110.0
(20 - including LANs, &
office tecnology)   _ 
Peripherals & electric     20.0      20.0       15.0     30.0      10.0      95.0
supply                  I-                     _
Software for oper. sys.,    30.0    250.0       40.0     20.0      20.0      360.0
app. develop., DBMS,
office technology, etc.
Specalized software (GIS,   50.0     70.0       20.0     10.0                150.0
deskop publishing, etc.)
Specialized technical       15.0     20.0       10.0      5.0      5.0       55.0
training
Technical assistamce for    50.0     100.0     100.0    20.0       20.0      240.0
application   software
development
Supply                      10.0      15.0      15.0      10.0     10.0       50.0
SUBTOTAL                                                              1330.0



-118-
Annex 6
IL MUDIRIYA LEVEL
PC systems (70              5.0      100.0    100.0    100.0    50.0         450.0
multiusers & stand-alone)
Electricity (UPSs) &        10.0      30.0      35.0      30.0     20.0      125.0
supply
PC software & training      10.0      10.0      20.0      15.0     10.0      65.0
Comm. Hardware &                      10.0      10.0      5.0      5.0       30.0
Software
SUBTOTAL                                                              670.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                           2000.0
NOTE:       The above requirements, schedule & estimates will be refined fiuter upon completion
of the detailed maser plan which will be completed prior to project effectiveness. 'Te
indicated requirements are in addition to, and complement, the computerization program
already underway and supported by USAID, scheduled for completion in 1994. It Is
assumed therefore that Year 1 will commence in January 1995.
Component Local Costs
(US$'000)
________________  Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5   TOTAL
siteImprovement            20.0     30.0     20.0      20.0       20.0     110.0
Local staff                10.0     20.0     20.0      20.0       20.0      90.0
TOTAL                                                                      200.0



- 119 -
Anne fg
MEASURE, TIMETABLE AND OUTPUT
CPOU  t       J         Action(s) Required         Tifnt*t             ExpeCted Gtlut           _ mpafmie
Coordination B          Ninfsterfal decre         Almread  issued    Definition of             Ninister of
celarifietion of steps                            In Sept. 1998.     admfnistrative            Education
in plaming.                                                          rosponsibiUti1es
Clarification of        Engagement of experts;    By JuAn  1993.     Oranizatfonal plen,       Toehnicat
functions for           preparation of                               functional chart, end     Committee
operatfonal planning.    operational pltming                         definftfon of             "fth
docunent.                                   information ftlow, both    techniecl
at the Dfwan & Mudirly.   assistance
levels.
Coordination of         Appointment of an ID      By March 1993.     Coordination, quality     Ministry of
implementation          coordinator (part of                         control & periodic        Education &
measure.                PIU)                                         reportfng                 PIU
Development and         Engagement of             By Deceenor       DOta led contents &        GES & TA
imptementation of       specialist consuttant     1993.              logistic of training
mI nagent and           (from UNDP funde) for                        program prepared;
technical training      the development of                           Identification &
program at the Central   detailed training                           seletion of candidates
and Mdiriya levels.     program In genral                            both at the Diwan &
accordae with the                           Mudiriya levels.
project's training
matrix. (See Att. 5)
Delopment of agreed      By December        Availability of           Technical
training program.        1993.              detailed training         Committee and
report.                  TA
iIplementation of        Jan. 1994-Dec.     Senior/middle staff       Technical
agreed action plan to    1998               selected.                 Committee
sutain thee progrem
through fntrodctfon S                       Strategfc objectives
uwe of enhace                               established; program
mangement praetices In                      options developed;
education operations                        utilfzing information
planning, resoure                           for decision making;
allocation, mwnagmt                         Cst/benefit analysis
& policy anatysis and                       of education delivery
research.                                   systems prepared.
Preparation of an       Specfalized consultants   Apr.-Sept. 1993    nagement                  CDEPI &
overall plan for the     (Education & MIS),                          information needs         Technical
development 8           engaged.                                     defined, technology       Comdttee
fiptementation of                                                    architecture specified,
Managment Information                                                and implementation plan
Systema.                                                             with resource
requirements, cear
phasing and prioritles
prered.                                I
Streamlining of         Finaization of CIS        By Nov. 193.       Completion of new         GES & CDEPI
informetion &           organization.                                organization chart of
technology support                                                   the CIS.
structures
Enhancing technical     Recruitment 8 staffing    condition of       CIS technical capacity    CDEPI
services capacity In    of vcont positfons        effectfvenss.      in support of NIS in
support of m_aent        (mnaemnt and                                place.
information systems     technical) at CIS.
devlopment and
impletmntation.
Enhancin transmfr of    Appointment of            By Apr. 1993.      Enhanced practices in     6ES & CDEPI
mangement &             counterpart teem, to                         education planning and
technology skfils to    the exterml                                  education delivery
ME.                      consultent(s), in                           systems within the MoE.
_mament and
technology.



-120-
Development of an        Phased expansfon          Dec. 1993-Dec.      On tine actess and use      ES & CDEPI
Integrated data baes     enhance mnt of Basic       1995.              of interated date bae
for Basic Edueation.     Education Data bas, in   Continu0us            for operational
accordance with           rof inement and        _ agmnt policy
information requirement   enhancement as      analysis, monitoring
identified by the         required 6wing    and decision making.
Naster Plan.              project
implementation.
Devetopment of           Eggemnt of Technical   Juf. 1995-Dec.          Aveltabitfty of            CDEPI & TA
Educational Nenawenent   Assistance to              1996. Periodic    relevant and timely
Information systems*     complement MOE             TA support until   information on
to sustain and support   reoAurces In data base    Dec. 1999.           enrotlent, access &
1nproved Institutfonal   and software                                   equity rolated to basfc
capacity for  anaing    application                                     eduration; resource and
basic education          development.                                   facility utiLization,
efficiency and adequacy
Design, develop and       Jan. 1994-Dec.      of education delivery
lsplement priority,       1999.               system, etc.
computer based
information systems       Devlopment          Periodic reports and
for, inter alia:          priority &          research analysis
sequence to be     prepared & circulated.
-   Population &          firmed up upon
Enrollment            completion of       On-line access to basic
Forecasting;          the Master Plan.   information provided to
Implemntation      selected managers and
-   Resource Planning &   priority will       decision makers.
vanagement;           take into
consideratin,
-   Facility, Material,   within the
nd Teacher            absorptive
planning;             capacity of the
-   financing &           MOE, high 1opact
Performance           application
evaluation System;   systems - based
on prototyping
nd "piloting"
-   Education  tuality/    approach.
efficiency
____________________           Modeling;   etc.
laprovement &            Acquisition &              Jul. 1994-Dec.      Increased couputing       CDEPI
modernization of          installation of           199, In             capacity at the Diwan
procedures.              coaputing software and    acordance with    and Wudiriya levels.
hardware in support of    computer
the information           hardware &          Access by selected
system's development &    software            educators and decision
laplementation.           acquisition         askers to reote deta
schedule as        bases dealing with the
Development &             indicated on th    educatf10n Sector.
fuplementatfon of users   computer
training at the Di1un &   hardware matrix,   Use of office
Mudiriya levels.          and eventually      technology to improve
refined by the     productivity.
Master Plan.
Faster processing of
data nd diffusion of
information to
appropriate users.



IMPIMATION PLAN
FOR 01Sf'EOA DEVEA           P  CDMNN
P_       YakYew     Yewr2     yen 3      Yew 4     Yewr   i  Yew 6
AcdftQ  Q  Q3 Q4    2 3 4 1 2 314 1 21314 1 2 3 4 1 2 -3 4 1 2 314
Ap_pb_nwo   11    ,   _--1   _    _____    _____   
Pnp_ b* _dud oW _     _____     _____   
,,   hs and  dmaZotc l        ______      
Pt    w1 A. to &v____ _                                                        ______     
I  _ Is>
F_sv_ &w Uaf I ,
hvmm _    __m NW                   __                                   I            
to---_       ______     _____     
dpd_ftams- as p  m                           _____           _____     
ado* faf ft& 
ANWO ~ _of* NM ft _t                        t        |||||        |||||  
[ille*hfDar,bp. an IoO = 5 = |l||||       lW*|ll 



- 122-
PROJECI MANAGEMENT FLOW CHART
l;MOE 18u ho  
Oom ~     ~      Wo
TA    TBsohnlo                                   O _   C    TA
TA!            TA
Note: Shaded boxes indicate full-time FlU staff.



- 123 -
DISBURSEMENr SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year              Dibursement          Cunmulative       % of
& Semes_r Eing              During Semester       Disbursement      Credit
-- (US$ mnilon)
June 30, 1994                      2.0                   2.0               4
Decemnber 31, 1994                 3.0                   5.0             9.0
June 30, 1995                      5.2                   10.2           18.4
DeI mber 31, 1995                  6.6                  16.8            30.3
June 30, 1996                      6.6                  23.4            42.2
December 31, 1996                  6.3                  29.7            53.5
June 30, 1997                      6.5                  36.2            65.2
December 31, 1997                  6.2                  42.4            76.4
June 30, 1998                      5.0                  47.4            85.4
December 31, 1998                  4.2                  51.6            92.9
June 30, 1999                      1.8                  53.4            96.2
December 31, 1999                  0.4                  53.8            96.9
June 30, 2000                      0.4                  54.2            97.7
200
December 31, 2000                  0.4                  54.6            98.4
June 30, 2001                      0.4                  55.0            99.1
December 31, 2001                  0.4                  55.4            99.8
June 30, 2002                      0.1                  55.5           100.0
gif   miidp  i pdlAsi



=   *          ___~-4  -4   __*_la-    -
-  -    -   -   a                          -4
s"te   g i  o   t%  ]    \t]tBstt3|0 Om  o
i~~~. i   *ti  *t i , abit. X ia a t S  ! , *5 e..  re B
tog$t- t   -g   Ji @8;i 4W  a>7g6"  ii  . 
,! 4 S           -    .i54   o  e  i.  l       i
LLLLL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3I



- 125 -
AIproxsmat  Dates                                                  Expected Skill          Staff Irput
(Month/Tear)                     Activity                        Requirements               (SW)
05/1993                    initiated UIDP-finmnced              .Task Manager                       6
activities                           .EMtS Specialist
.Echcation specialist
09 or 10/1993              Sua rvision Nissifn (Project         .Task Manager                       8
Launmb Workshop)                     .Iaplementation Specialist
.Procurenent Specielist
.Disbursement officer
12/1993-01/1994            Review Detailed Plans For:            Task Manager                       6
.School Construction                .Architect
teacher Trainin                     .Teacher Trng Specialist
05/1997                    -School Construction                 .Iiplementation Specialist          6
-EMIS                               .EMIS Specialist
-Teacher Training                   .Teacher trng. Specialist
-Maintenance
09/1997                    -School Construction                 .Task Manager                       7
-ETIS                               .Teacher Trng Specialist
-Teacher Training                   .ENIS Speeialist
-Maintenance                        .Distance Educ. Specialist
.Implementation Speeialist
01/1998                    Annual Review                        .Implementation Specialist          6
-School Construction                JEIS Specialist
-EMIS                               .Teacher Trng. Specialist
-Teacher Training
-Maintenance
05/1998                    -School Construction                 .Task  anager                       7
-ENIS                               .Teacher Trng Specialist
-Teacher Training                  .JNIS Specialist
-Maintenance                        .Distance Educ. Specialist
_____________________       _____________________________        .Implementation    Specialist
09/1998                    -School Construction                  Implementation Specialist          6
-ENIS                               .EMIS Specialist
-Teacher Training                   .Teacher Trng. Specialist
-Maintenance
01/1999                    Annual Review                        .Task Manager                       7
-School Construction                .Teacher Trng Specialist
-E5IS                               .EMIS Specialist
-Teacher Training                   .Distance Educ. Specialist
-Maintenance                         Implementation Specialist
05/1999                    -School Construction                 .Iamplementation Specialist         6
-ENIS                              .XMIS Specialist
-Teacher Training                    .Teacher Trng. Specialist
-Maintenance
09/1999                    -School Construction                 .Task Manager                       7
-ElNIS                              .Teacher Trng Specialist
-Teacher Training                   .EMIS Specialist
-Maintenance                         Distance Educ. Specialist
.Iaplementation Specialist
01/2000                    Austal Review                        .Implementation Specialist          6
-School Construction                .EMIS Specialist
-ENIS                               .Teacher Trng. Specialist
-Teacher Training
-Maintenance



- 126 -
Approxi1ate Dates                                    _Expected Skill                      Staff Input
(Month/Tear)                     Actfvity                       Requirements               (am)
05/1993                    Initiated 1109-financed             .Task  Manaser                     6
activities                          .ERIS Speclallst
.Education Specaflist
09 or 1011993             Supervision Nission (Project         .Task Mwnager                          _
Launch Workshop)                    .JAplementation Speecilist
.Procurement Specialist
.Disbursement Offfter
121993-01/1994            Revi.ew Oetatled Plans For:          .Task Manager                      6
.School Construction                .Architect
.Teecher Training                   Teecher Tng Specialist
0512000                   -School Constructian                 .Task  anager                      7
-ENIS                               .Teacher Trag Specialist
.Teacher Training                   .EMIS Specialist
-Maintenance                        .Distance Educ. Speealifst
.Implementation Specialist
09/2000                   -School Construction                 .mptementation Specialist          6
-ENIS                               .EMIS Specialist
-Teacher Trainng                    .Teacher Trng. Specialist
-Maintenance
01/2001                   Annual Review                        .Task Mnagr                        7
-School Construction                .Teacher Trng Specialist
-ENIS                               .EMIS Specialist
-Teacher Training                   .Distance Educ. Specialist
M-aintenance                         Implementation Specialist
05/2001                    -School Construction                .Implementation Specfalist         6
-ERIS                               .ENIS Specialist
-Teacher Training                   .Teacher Trng. Specialist
-Maintenance
NIRO ITENS:   Thre supervision missions are planned each year. Starting approximately April 1995. the
profile of skill requirements for IDA missions will be refined after the first annual review
of the project's isplementation.



- 127 -
Annex 10
LIST OF DOCUMENT  IN THE PROJECr FLE
1.    5-Year Plan; Childhood & Motherhood Component (includes plan for education); 06/92
2.    Basic Education in the Arab Republic of Egypt; p d by MOE and USAID
3.    Educational Reform in Egypt; 1990, S. Jarrar.
4.    Statement of Dr. Hussein Kamel Baha El Din, MOE, In the Supreme Council for
Preuniversity Education about the Strategies of the Educational Policy; author and date
unknown
5.    'he Qualiy of Primary Education in Egypt; Liana Prey, W. Bank; March 1991
6.    Some Thoughts and Issues Related to lInproving the Delivery of Education in Egypt;
Mohua Mukherjee; March 26, 1992
7.    Educating fte Imagination; Alexia Lewnes; Cairo Today; February 1992
8.   Issues in Egyptian Basic Education; Samir larrar; document from previous mission
9.    Educational Statistics 1988-91; Ministry of Education; June 1992
10. A Proposal of the WID Subdonors Group for Intra-Agency Collaborative Program in the
Field of Female Literacy in Egypt; UNDP; December 29, 1991
roectM Rela d
11.   Previous Mission Documents: Aide-Memoires and Back-To-Office Reports
12. In-Service Training at a Distance for Teachers in Egyptian Schools for Basic Education;
David Hawkridge; September 1992
13. NCEE Request for Assistance with Feasibility Study; date and auithor unknown
14.   Summary of Research and Analysis Activities and Activides to Iniplement; date and
author unknown
15. Planning, Management, Policy Analysis Training Requirements; date and author unknown
16. Physical Facilities Construction and Rehabilitation Component; from previous Bank
mission; date and author unimown
17.   Civil Works Component - Mission Update; G. Brest Van Kempen; October 8, 1992
18. Sampling Proposal for Egypt; date and author unknown



- 128 -
Annex0
19.   Photographs of facilities visited during preappraisal mission
20.   US Govnment Memorandum - Follow Up on Maitenance Policy to USAID-Funded
Schools in Assiut Governorate; July 16, 1992
21. PPU Sketches on EMIS Extension
22. Physical Facilities Construction and Rehabilitation Component; 1990 or 1991
23. Educational Planming Project Egypt (EEPP): Research Triangle Annual Report; May 11
1991-June 30, 1992
24.   National Curriculum Development Center Project: Third Annua Report; July 1, 1991-
June 30, 1992; Education Development Center, Inc.
25. Master Plan for CDEPI (Outline) in Draft Form; October 4, 1992
26.   A Proposal for a Progran in Interational Cooperation and Educational Development;
AUC/Ministry of Education; Staff Training Proposal, with covering letter from the
Minister of Education
Non-Bank Work on the   or
27.   USAID
Egypt Educational Planning Project Scope of Work for July 1992-June 1994; RTI; 17
May 1992
Egyptian Educational Planning Project - the Public Costs of Public Education in Egypt:
Evidence from S Idaras; Scott Moreland
Division of Educational Planing and Information Educational Planning Project; Draft
Work Plan for May 1991-June 1992; date and author unknown
An Organizational Analysis of the MOE - the Production, Flow and Use of Information in
the Decision-Making Process; HUD; May 1990
Final Evaluation of fte Basic Education Project; Creative Associates Iternattonal;
December 1991
Paper on the Proposed Basic Education II Project; date and author unknown
28.   UNICEF: The Community School: Project Description; March 1992
29.   UNDP: Interagency Collaborative Program for Basic Education and Female Literacy;
Feb. 1992
30. UNESCO: School Buildings after the Earthquake of 12 October 1992, George Ziogas,
Paris 1992



0  ~~~~~~~~~UBER OF SUEI
(fulU.a)



*                                                                                 uII
r

ri             ...
.'..                           03
'V.'....                                                  0
I
@0
-
.4                                m'E                                                       .                                  ob
                                                         0%
*.......,......,.......                                   p4
@0                                 C.,
-  -                                                                                    I
Eq          -6
("ouuw)
sLk4aunis 50 lUflN



- 131 -
chart 3
STATISTICAL CHARTS
ENROLLMENT IN TEACHER TRAIN1NG STAGE
12 -    -    -
40 -
Sf 1MALEd
0
81J3)82 J8  83184 88585186 8KM8 8ON8  MO1  89191 9019
YEAR
Source: Educational Statistics for 1988-1991, Ministry of Education, June 1992



- 132-
STATISTICAL CHARTj
NUMBER OP SCHOOL IbY STAGE
_________  _ -_  .  -                  314 1 .    .1 -4 I                             I  .4- 
as!                  isi        T~FiisI              ii,L    . i           WI   .        :
--       ~~11       lfie       10         2t4        so        2M1        as                    so 
5,-    .I ', 
1a1       1go        #4          I2         so       M1         212        845        44
-   -4                        3s -4  __                        An       41                               Is
M.I1      12s         $0         - 818     a1                   la         1          1..
4- 4t |  -127  _     _           .4            .                 4 .1       1 t8 4
I...         I       114  ti6-,h           14 ___4s-t
30 :   sos           ava         2         U         144 44                4_        4S
:-' ~ ~    ~    4 '0 ii3 -6                                 46 -47               2t         21   --   19
-       _             730   _     S         815       2tS8       40D        WI         127 t   1_           1   49
4  -            ~~~408     417        44S        891        105       110         48   -               618
.-                 48_        4?t-       499   t4 10          121        14 -3                 61         83 _ Et_ 
701       127        874 1      I" I        4        2110 M                 8?4
:- 4m ...... . .au em. 69 1                                                 _
eV        an 7tlE1  7S1  -41    ON - 2   -    112t    70              -784
-' '' ':' _L.>.J_L .g__ i__.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                $a 
*-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -1  8* 5" 
7se, ] tw i,7                                          SI         s
pnI                                -.    - - .; in=                     7T  91
Source: Educatonal Statistics for 19881991, Min y of  wducon, June 1992



-133 -
Chart 5
SIATIMCAL CHARTS
NUMBER Of STDET BY GENDER IN PRIMR STAGE
_27785         2eS20        48^6        241MS         18214Sl      42SUt         l    _        49A5]       _
_~~~~~~~~m l1l                              25MWt        tZ!SB4       t048tt       2274951      *2Xs8        107m         2801tff
_                 2~~~~~~~1S3  19rss        41xi0        tasss        low  |       SRsO  |      tstsis       174s2 1      aws
2ssttsl~~g i                92"577t      uem          2sm4         2SS1         4907ns       2mm6S        gum22        40W
_ 8733~~~~~~~~~6 i e52   _    t 2129                  OW12 0 i awl              1171          am          ose 4    i ts7
2ssa7 1       Z                       2332           *1;         431451      24ss3 1       0S>         4sat2s
2741         2ss7         $mlt        2471          2ss          47m181       2se         24205        46ee
4sst         414         ST20         43s4          as7s         ...332       443941      400ws I       4M1
aoo    226                                   25Cs         si 5t0        7"7 |          ss|       fsS
_   _          -  arono  ~~~10  2485ss      05932        276a          26212 1      5044        294iOS    23   l           0
_                 nsZol~~~1146  64esa       IsS043       soEs          627|        16snal       114"l         ss7D        iosso
ia_ rax2341~~la                 SU          Ism          loRsm                     loo          10801         O6m     s   1osrls7ealma4
G   _             2rer0st~~In  11o2191      azBasr      1513          10e2g  Ot5109       l      s4ssI        o361        o632
_~~~~~~~s                      117mo       30 swo7      1647tl6      10s113t        6ss amsslam             1os2is       27801s
17WIS       1 2Z2        2 gofs3s I                11013s       28a  |       rres1        1165t li    27ss
874491       59t0|       12SS12       5S1821        Sim         lo 1?         596t        52W          l ttt
g|_|_              t8tR |        Slis?  1S2     2W4S      16258         am62        2483e        1302D |        S9         2t8t8
_~~~~~~~~o                      -O           .o .94                     .si          .mW4                      a            74
_              tti472 |      ttt~~~~ ~~10  i   am     t28S          S1S        223W          21ta31       19           3383
Source: 13ducadotial Statisac for 1988-1991, Mlastry of Education, June 1992



-134-
Chan 6
STATISTICAL CHARTS
NUMBER OF STUDENTS BY GENDER IN PREPARATORY STAGE
1683t }  t          32833?        1         2309   b2=?       453S7                         2 1         442
N~~~~~~~a                        is                          iow  |                      I             I  
94400         8746=        161384        14              9           246040        1441                           6
So8o1         _08          10029 4        11165         639          1 2187        11461 5t47     6820 1 ___
_                  ~~~~~~47435    3 X1t9        SW _  39118649              51124         mrr           am77 1   i38 1 di7S        lt9361
78140                      1965483 |       816741       611          1818           98O3197      662           1s10m
|    _~~~~~~~f                    am?5          1 -414?5      loom42         ow9l         202M8J        11512?41     10l28m        2t78001
_101717        1704 3119842 9      914                  12534        14W           1035216        681332       1 294
2t?t8         420??i        264           3097          5 7519        2|1114      3tS6           80
_692          735743       10477S        i3400         114041        143887        1306169      16   2         2416
7473           ml3t        19147         183S          1360          26941        913            tA17 1151 2
Source_ Edc tio                S tatE68         3is   1           251S3         1of 4Eu4ti           2June               241 9I92
_                   ~~~~~ ~~983    NV2?          isms5         tun.3-        tIn"4                       1 74081      162?77        amt7
_      _            S4410 1~~9"    67404        WM 16Z4        38t44 0      OItOB         2 45W9        14419t 1     1t4878 1      297B
_               37999 1       ~~~~~~17L   _    t5 mm      ti4S 2        2W7t          am             a"63| S      248M          Om820
403     T     Is            am      |    8 am          0 2849 1       8561 1        GM      1 3  3046  
_                    Z@68~~~~~O12  32014    l   Om"U          t1l41          S32108       14382tl       110tO         57`15        t852tO
Wml           31Ml          99t4 1         z24  s34                  14SS7         tZ102   I      W828        is"0$t
amg1          3i5s m       103477         8Sl  SM34                  14-388            f881      tS 9wt 5"    tSi8
_                     _1~~~~~~7    22084         mm OS8        S6            3t8Ot        GmS           JSOt1         S3t281        7tt1
_                   ~~~~~~~4228      3 m         600S2         I 709         2S61          Om            am7|          30w190Bt      S
~~~-            ~~~~4W#3           403?          a 89902 8UQy1 ISt7                         It20          21           am73         12M
_      _             27l1~~~~g    24581         SW,7          3S80          34921         73"8          4202          384t1         am4
t~~~~~~~~473                 1    422B      1170O11           9t      8     SW      S    III  t41       gm            01           160  tt2
~~~~~-~~~             7eb           2250 lo                    10lW31         378I         t44t       ll       4t01 t8t              tS8
Source: 13ducational Stics for 1988-1991, Mhnsry of Education, June 1992



-135 -
Chartn
STATISICAL CHARTS
NUMBER OF BTDENTS BY GENb IN TEACHER TRIING STAGE
6W         1SW         2142         U02          Ms2         408          76S1        RItS
~~~~~io                  W         am            41 .    gm              gm           m          140   2tS2
I=             12"S134    S 52              on944                   30891    6 9            2tOt    2loO
I~~~~ 2 i4                          am I3                   .             44est25                 1840          00
_~~~~~~~~0 I !  |                          2744         ess$        law      -               4es          aee        1333
_ -- 2 3~ ~~~~2t  _             20         ame lm23                              4404        124e        197         S27'
-    _              nw~~~~~~1  4041         et91        10Q          SWa7        519         145         2ae          40r
e69T~~~~~~~ 1220                           11t97        4es0         a          14St    S z0         6    ss   1 055
0                 ~~~~~ ~~2C4S  11u-l      S1S01        1eXS        -s0I         255         11Ss         ons         1834
_      _        -tt1~~~~iio    113         224S          0141-    94s            Iwos         ?S          e           14012
__ ~~~~~~1794                  183     t s3sW aS   1416             1 45D       29ee         978,    S B             19SS
_                  t~~~~~~~st2  1 2?t      3 ses        i 442        9 S4       240B         Sss          Ws3        1S4S
2640  247  sia?      2m           low         3912        15S5         1352        gm3
~~~~~~~smo r s gem                    r    am     o    2e     s    20Sn          4540        I=     e s 148s    S     1SS
_             _    he 1~~~~~ 1411          2227         8 e2    1 12:3          102s         34e          amo        1146
|    -            ~~~~~~~2SD0  2fi |3    m              227          m           45O         m4           ISO         305
71             I  O             I6         mI         Ml           a           5 
_        2GS |    279 1            9t |        4 1         S7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   791 Sl W8
Source: Educational Statistics for 1988-1991, Mbistry of E!ducedon, June 1992



- 136 -
chart
SrATISTICAL CHARTS
PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENTS BY PERIODS
PRMIARY STAGE - 1990/199
FULL DAY (26.4%)
-AM (42.3%)
PM (31.3%)J
Source: Educational Staistics for 1988-1991, Ministry of Education, June 1992



- 137-
SrATISTCAL CHARTS
PUBLIC SCHOOL STODENTS BY PERIODS
PREPARATORY STAGE - 1990/1991
FULL DAY (2.0Y%)
Socone:        S a lcs fbr 1988-1991, Mistry of Education, June 1992



- 138 -
Chart 
STATISTICAL CHARTS
PERCE1NTAGE ENROLLME,NT GIRLS
PRIMARY STAGE - 1990,1991
SOUTH SINAI
MENYAA
FAYOUMi=,-
MATROUH ___
ASSYUW,_=._
SOHARKI ____i
POISISAI __A _
==4m       =           -i  I        -           --
A BGIRA__S
Source:  ducaionl Sta   o _81              io Eci  Jn 1992
SouKAFR EL-8HtIon, Sttstc fo 19819_Mnsr  fEuainue19



- 139 -
,Chartll
STATISTICAL CHARTS
PERCENTAGE ENTROLLMENT GIRLS
PREPARATORY STAGE - 1990/1991
SOUTH SINAI i     n_                              __ I
MATROUH __     .
MENYA                                         _
FAYOUM             _              -             _
BENI-SU. 
ASSYui _ -}
KENA         __i
NORTH SNAI _  
g ~BEHIRA A.     
M     A                        MENT G
S      SdAtiaS
~~ ASWAN a 
KfiAFR E-SHIA
S NEWVYALE
KA OBZ
l 18UA.
REDIEA
ALEKANDRI
OACAHIF 
PORTSAD_
0      1I0    20       30      44      S0       e D
% ENROLILMENT GIRLS
Source: Educational Staistics for 1988-1991, Ministry of Education, June 1992



-140-
Chart2
STATISlTCAL CHARTS
PERCENTAGE OF STUDENTS FEMALE BY STAG!
lf=-mmo." SOMM, ,-                                          4'.   ,*  !'
hw! -'--~.--  ==-=L --  -                                              -
_L,:_  Zi,_         _       _          41
_3 4 441 =34 41 
Source: EdIcational StaIistics for 19S8-199, M y of E-ucation, mune 1992
i 4M       4B      4 .i4  -        WA      4M     47   9
11  I   -4n4    04      04      mI      0       w4      4m    _4"
"~~~0 !9                aq      ."      4        M      4N
_          ~~~44A     4*N    42!                           9tS 44  0  a"
| | [~~W            04  j  M               UN      VW.  ^  
|1 | ". m 4       *        4      t       04     SW -4
-~~~~r            o,4    44              go -M 4"q -    
Sourc: EduagtonWa StaScs flor 19881991, MNtyof Edmdn Jun 199



- 141 -
Chartl3
STATISTICAL CHARTS
DISTRIB TION OF ST DENTS ACCORDING TO GENDER AND GRADE
TEACHER TRANING STAGE
~ DSRBTO  OF STUDENTS AC ORDN  TO GENDE  AN  GRADE
|~~~~~~~~o              a    90 D    1212      as   2 -      =2 t 
13 43186    1420    797   6m    61      1346  2033  236 1274
-11- 001       10   641171              0   11816    M101      0
|        t~~~~1438   12=12  t,9U4    ?M.   7454   6et6- ISM0    1B|  MRo
DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENTS ACCORDING TO GENDER AND GRADE
PRIMARY       STAGE
Source: Educationl St"tiO fr 1     1     i       of8 E on78 J  1992 12
__ li25~~140             NU       42_0   MAND's  Anon  11 731          12 1 2 
_   _~~~~~87 FSl82o_9O so    IB700  d6602    g ssonn   1194106 1 ii-l  12574S2 
_   _   * ~~~431S7E   5 42534   S877M 1  65tZ3   1M1S19 710 it991Al    2978S  1 274M 
DISTRIBUT1ON OF STUDENTS ACCORDING3 TO GENDER AND GRADE
PREPARATORY STAGE
_   _~~~~~4 1       ML   WW I  46060 IO8 l51    m1 I  amI  is"20
_1_   ~~~32W641  MOM 2I  NUNeo1  4WM1  C4MM61 M  Ir2    7esm L   7Blu  142 I
Source: Educational Stadstcs for 19881991, Minstry of Education, June 199



- 142-
Chartt6
STATIMCAs CHARTS;
DtSTRIUTWN OF S;CHOOLS 8 SMIOEI M BY SHFr
111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O4                                iaild   2. Q  t   as110  szW    *tA 9eguoX oSL
e | | tU tt t~~~~~~~~.19  3XI-                 -        Q"  a          o&       |        " 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                _I                  01ar_14        2  a   t 1S  Q iatv i     "W"
1.s 1 -        4- 220      tLA     m                        7.19   _1
2 - *oi *gX11   2 .4                31AI4   31       OR              4A              OVA
_o     _oo _31.    24s t?A t1.0                                                            &* t  O R
i l _~aD-,           t     tI&V    1       S 1.14    4     1$ 4 4 41   t    14              "i              0t*
| |~~~~j                   GOA       0     2  14           14ai 214 1       caw       a       4   ,       o1
i~~~~~a            OAJ1 "4l stJw   Alt              1aZ  aoi   _L         ovAUd                            A
I~~~~~5                     1   5 r   '  aqem tfq   .sA               t      A              I&g    In od  
! i l _~"            e      4SN4e    4AII li   11<a3        9*1      a       IL M           1o   14f ." 
-~~~~~~4                    4_.      WA4- I          lo+-       ad    1n   0.7S                    0a qoa4
_~~~~~o                  9 51   s7U@ o os4                     e      Zd    0esEzi4                                  O
4 g71 }4^ ^ 0^ tu tZ ^ " 9 1.tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~004owA                                                cA
Source: Educational Staistcs for 1988-1991, Mhisaty of Education, Jwie 1992



- 143-
SrATSnCAL CHAR
DISTRlBUTMON OF SCHOOLS & STUDET BY SHIFT
PREPARATOR, OM
li~~~~~~~~~~~~1  li4   VA   _OA   _4    WA   _2                               A        "     "
3~~~~~~~~~moil   zv              i r4    12             a*    VI        to            =A        t      403    * 4   tt   
~~~~~~~~~U                A        4     L_4    SLI    ItA    12os4  OJO94            asm     O D
ne2   a-Id a              l      ill           sai  7p         rl     '      31Rt04          **A
=_~~~~~~~~~~a-i    i"                 vwA                                                   me              *AAaS _ 
_  q ~~~IO4    1   2 K4s  1"42 ii.WA le                  74%tZSl 
4ti             l           "oltl         I trsl tl i     OA4            & - 4
_~~~~~~~~~L                   o           q             sA s  7^t.tt tt4 *Al
_ g er 4 s7 t~~~~~~~~~~~~.04                       " 1            0lqtqt.04
71 74 tfl _ ^ ^ tZ ttK ^ 1t7A$4                 _    ^
_ tWZ~~~~~~~~~iu                 t      A       v      4 v94          *AA<Ne XlQI0  J
Source: Educatonal Statistics for 1988-1991, Ministry of Education, June 1992



GOVERNORATES
90



GOVERNORATES
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                  i
.4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 



- 146 -
Charta
STATISTICAL CIARTS
PERCENTAGE ENROLLMENT GIRLS
TOTAL SECONDARY STAGE - 1011991
KOENA;
MENL                              G
Soce: d
AEXNEW VALE,!
Q~~~~~~~ ENRNOUFlA,IRL
SorV  Edc_n  ttsisfr18-91  iityo  dcdn ue19



-147 -
STATISTICAL CHARTS
WSTREIMUON OF TEACHING STAFF ACCORDING TO GENDER AND QUALIFICATION
PRIMARY, 901
wgavmwwmain                             POST*5A1WARY                    990MAO P OMYOG                                01J31                "fvzfAieNMIT
464W  MM4  ITAL 45 fbM   ITAL MAN FINAL  TOAL MAL FMALSI TOrAL MALE P&11L  T4AAL MU5 ,a*   lOlA  NANaunT
1 w478    am                   SW8   2612          6851    11* 13 23     an2    M.4   4-70   1-118         a      Ito *         --a                      1 am
1I4      416      870    M7        3     100    1410    3601    536       66      3365    4353    342  _   5?  __ 130         a      370      446    SW*    031  1W?
*   4        7     6        U        02   SW       SW3      O6183146        31*2    SW3   2372        270    3662      12       3140           S06      6615586
1   l214     so      46       s0      147   UN*    *126    GM7   21*5         3161    612    10*5     212    126         so       so      12     @16    am1    am1
I            a    4          2       6254   SW*   40362146   2237   464M.334    24   4251*5                                      O  18 *4176   4472  am
*   26-      38    62        14      36   1421      1044    32*    2643    4116    7466134 _U  an             140      25       so       40    am*    641    1*14
as *         721   47       21       66    167      246      43*8  374?'   006        681$    *16      36      110      to 16    as3      41   *ON       OW    1413
14   6        341   s0       16      166   536      373      4013  81*16    SW*   13481   142?         64    2321    192         a       110    am6   lOI        *366
41       61     142       2        8        7   11*      164     30241  014       31     277     334      2B?      en*1     3       58  __ I    31$    a1              m
122    6       23      40       s 6*    10     M6       36      5813484         *478   10121    600       531  _   31        32     27       a      631768441716
8           17      *                Si 3 00?      170      S60      23      140      1*3 102          01      16      12       s06d1467                gm6      Soo
a6  3        74     I0       *3       M5   874   23668         f 366           6       as43   11?      140      all        *ft o*an                      gm       a
4       12       to      6      41       40  173        goo      678410    1I2           IM73     36        y       s 87  56       4*062610663 g6
37       425      M6    I00    1318    126    138         2130    217   2146    462        $M       An*       No563  06      as      M6       NA6    Gm 66            "M 1
36       12       42     Is       as      4543M          48?      116*   3146    2851    g84853             W0     118      *1         40     A      4*7121am
7           15      0       26       361*68        2112    3770905           442_ 165         1       136     1043    7 36              4*              am31     6Om
62      1*1      214     81      110     23    am6       16*     206   375?    244    6101   16s4          423    267      I26  __l           M*     SW*    4604   1366
124      s6       W*      36     360      226   3716    36m       877    1304  _  64    2 36        M5      ISO      712     34       Is      *0    877       4641   102M
8       II       l8     16       47      63    46       217      31   7030    4172   113 53       13      114      au?     as-    to         W7     *        66      38
s      *0        44     32       a       40   ON6   1WV         3432   046      236      7*11   14*6      Mt    1"M        43       12       48    OM       38S1W      0
0       a         0-    2         7       0     70       ea       1362got   _27           50W     40       36       *5     to 10             go1  * 41* M             so
3,    14$       148    II        36      = 135*         136     36081W$          1131    233     400      125      M6      1?        36    43   SW          WU.    8
6        2        6   I           6        7 346   26    60  250 1ISO                      436 22          2        *4   6           4106*54681661
2        0        2      2        0        214           163"    36*    630       M0      1837    so6      45      114       1       6        7    11*518a5*g1
o       a         0      1        0      10    I"        21,    172  360          344     *54 -S           20       41     a0         0    046                40       1
2       13       16      1        2        2648          4011   1340      6        701   342   so         12        70      0        1        W0    161        6     1
0       0         0      1        I          13  3        1V m   17        *        1             IS3                                         I * 1  184       *       8
Sourc: Educatoral Statistics for 1988-1991, Ministrv of Education, June 199



-148 -
STATISTICAL CHARIS
DWISTRIUTION OF TEACHING STAFF ACCORDING TO GENDER AND QUALIFICATION
PREPARATORY, 90091
7' 1     WW    3100117 PSTGRADUATDEBRI  UDucaTIm8EcoHDy     OTHER        TOTALTUAOW100
U' MM  TI A        I  ZWJ   TTA a     I_E1MTMjg    TOTAL -" a I *WA    OA IU'   1NA   T'I
lk..       '0413  an  l72   uS   410    6Tui   ~           mIi    IS  as FmT  -sITii
ZFnIZ+ZZ~~~~~~~~ _~___      41.'174 I   o           o     ou4 w
.emi ..      114rrtaI 1dOEb7071 2SO9  511 1451 24  la36  lTII  2663 12E6 66 1403
Source: Educationalg Staisic for 198-191 Ministry2 ofEdcaion    lan 1992n                T



MAP SECTION



21r                                    I.                                    I                                      40
MfEDITRANEAN    SEA                                                       
Ab.                     F AT  L-i PPRSAH
Ko~~~~~~R
{'';';''t,,,'r''f''\E^-S -' G
Fs4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ItoNo -I- .1 A,'                                                RI . ol,                     030
1 X \ 4 X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Abu Z.-wi
- ' .. ;', /~~~~~~~~ RENISU    -   "'                                                    I/F
DA
T-7
.,,.,,Th  k1             ''"   ''M' A
-28-                                                                   V  i L ' NVA                                             <         ,,
to
El-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                   SSIT                                   E-Gh,dg
BASIC EDUCATION
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
g    \V<~~SOHAG
A  IDA FINANCED SCHOOLS
REGIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
6   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                       sa.1
o   SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                  ENA
261                  MAIN ROADS                                                                                                       6
4-- --RAILWAYS
: RIVERS AND WADIS                                      |                                   Th
APPROXIMATE GOVERNORATE BOUNIDARIES                                                 "CoA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ed!,
7' tA Non., |t
s)
ASWAN DAM  A,ol-
S.-oho   C,,,            2
h-d- A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
'   K
T  2,0  40  00  10  K00
MoO~~~~~Co~~~~IIh.ooCMB.ok ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      IIMEER
0' &omd l. ..W^
,d                                                                 /,r" ,  
COMM Fi,..pA.o  ploJ
poodflOOIdU 0n.rrrp,
r  OM Mg, Ir*yV 
doo W1yMC0d@.
-~~~~~~~~~              ._.--  ---r--                                                ..__,_                         . 



