Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2476 EGT
                   Development Credit Agreement
               (Basic Education Improvement Project)
                              between
                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 13, 1993
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2476 EGT
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1993, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
      (b)   "GDIST" means the General Directorate for In-Service
Training of MOE;
      (c)   "GDEPI" means the General Directorate of Educational
Planning and Information of MOE;
      (d)   "RTC" means a Regional Training Center of MOE;
      (e)   "TCID" means the Technical Committee for Institutional
Development established within MOE's Higher Commission for Training;
      (f)   "GAEB" means the General Authority for Educational
Buildings, an agency of MOE;
      (g)"NIB" means the National Investment Bank of the
Borrower;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit, established
within MOE and to be staffed pursuant to the provisions of Part A of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (j)   "TOMOHAR" means the Training Agency for the Ministry of
Housing and Reconstruction of the Borrower; and
      (k)   "Implementation Plan" means the Implementation Plan for
the Project, referred to in Part A (3) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special
Account) in a commercial bank or in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, if the
Special Account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.\0cSection 2.03. T
he Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
Page  3
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2003 and ending November 1, 2027. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2012 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
education, engineering and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
Page  5
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the PIU has been staffed in the manner
described in Part A (1) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of State for International
Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for International Finance of
said Ministry of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of International Cooperation
            (International Finance Sector)
            8 Adly Street
            Cairo, Egypt
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINISTRY OF               927-23348
                    INTERNATIONAL
                    COOPERATION
                  Cairo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Page  6
                  By /s/ Ahmed Maher El Sayed
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Ram Chopra
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Works                   28,820,000        90%
(2)   Goods                    2,700,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)   Training and             3,710,000        100%
      engineering,
      and other
      technical
      services
(4)   Teacher                  2,050,000        100%
      training
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)   Operating                  270,000        100% for the
      expenses                                  fiscal year ending
                                                on June 30, 1994;
                                                90% for the fiscal
                                                year ending on
                                                June 30, 1995;
                                                80% for the fiscal
                                                year ending on
                                                June 30, 1996
                                                and 70% for sub-
                                                sequent fiscal
                                                years
Page  7
(6)   Unallocated              2,450,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              40,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   disbursement under Category (5) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be made on the basis of itemized
statement of expenditures certified by PIU. During the month of July
in each year, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a
statement as to whether total disbursement under said Category (5)
during the fiscal year ending on the preceding June 30 has been made
within the disbursement percentage specified for such fiscal year,
and appropriate adjustment in disbursement shall be made by the
Association on the basis thereof.
3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000 equivalent
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred
prior to that date but after March 1, 1993.\0cSCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are (a) to improve access to
basic education through a program for school construction and
maintenance, (b) to improve teaching quality and curricula design,
(c) to enhance MOE's capacity in the areas of management, planning
and policy analysis, and (d) to assist in the formulation of options
for addressing priority basic education issues.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     School Construction and Maintenance
(1)   Construction, in three phases, in the Governorates of Cairo,
Sharkeya, Ismailia, Menofeya, Assiut, Sohag and Qena, of about 130
primary schools and about 110 preparatory schools.
(2)   Implementation, through TOMOHAR, of a training program on
aspects of school maintenance for engineers and technicians of MOE
and GAEB.
(3)   Provision of equipment, training and technical services for
MOE and NIB to enhance their capacity in the administration and
supervision of school construction.
(4)   Provision for GAEB of equipment for a material testing
laboratory and of a mobile soil testing truck.
Part B:     In-Service Teacher Training
(1)   Construction or renovation of a facility to house GDIST's
module production and distance education units.
(2)   Provision of technical assistance for GDIST and local and
overseas training for its staff.
Page  8
(3)   Construction and equipping of a new RTC in the Governorate of
Qena, and upgrading of six existing RTCs.
(4)   Provision of equipment and materials for four units of
GDIST's, namely, the units for Planning and Instructional Design,
Production of Training Materials, Distance Learning and Internal
Evaluation.
(5)   Implementation of training programs nationwide for trainers of
trainers, trainers and teachers of science, mathematics and
languages, and for distance education pilot in three Governorates.
Part C:     Institutional Development and Studies
(1)   Implementation of measures to strengthen MOE's capacity in
management, planning and policy analysis, including: (a) the
establishment within MOE of a Coordinating Technical Committee for
Institutional Development (TCID) and the implementation by it, with
the assistance of experts, of training programs in management,
planning and related fields for MOE's staff at headquarters and in
the Governorates; (b) the provision for CDEPI of computer equipment
and materials and technical services to assist in the development of
an integrated basic education data base and to extend the use of
such data base to MOE's directorates in the Governorates; (c) the
provision of (i) a facility and related services for the functioning
of CDEPI's offices for Research, Planning and Follow-up, Physical
Planning and Education Management Information System, and (ii)
equipment and materials for CDEPI's management information system;
and (d) the provision for CDEPI of technical documentation and
publications related to policy analysis, planning and technology
use.
(2)   Studies of (a) the financing of basic education, and (b)
teacher preparation policies and programs.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed not later than
      June 30, 2002.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).  For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000
or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
Page  9
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $500,000 per contract and not more than
$13,400,000 in the aggregate may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Such procedures shall
ensure, inter alia: (i) public opening of bids, (ii) equal treatment
of all bidders in terms of the requirements of furnishing bid or
performance bonds, and (iii) eligibility for bidding by
representatives of foreign bidders.
      (b)   Invitation of bids, in accordance with the procedures
referred to in paragraph (a) above, for the schools to be
constructed under Part A of the Project shall be made on the basis
of bidding documents which shall have been approved by the
Association.
      (c)   Bidders for works in accordance with the procedures
referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be prequalified in
accordance with procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
not more than $100,000 per contract and not more than $600,000 in
the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of not less
than three suppliers, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
3.    Proprietary items, such as books, journals, teaching materials
and computer software, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more
than $800,000 in the aggregate may be procured under contracts to be
negotiated with the owner or licensor thereof on terms satisfactory
to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
Page  10
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist MOE in carrying out Parts B and C of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause MOE to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                        SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
A.    Implementation Responsibilities
(1)   MOE shall assign to PIU, in addition to the managerial staff,
technical staff to be assigned on a full-time basis and in a number
adequate to perform PIU's functions in the areas of civil work
supervision, accounting, procurement and coordination of
implementation. The PIU shall have the technical responsibility for
Project implementation and shall, in particular (a) prepare the
Project Implementation Plan, (b) arrange for procurement of work and
goods and approve the terms of reference for specialists, (c)
maintain the Project accounts, (d) arrange for disbursement of the
proceeds of the Credit, and (e) report regularly to the office of
the Minister of MOE on the status of Project implementation.
(2)   MOE shall designate a high level official in the office of the
Minister of MOE to liaise with PIU for the purpose of facilitating
Project implementation.
(3)   The Project shall be carried out in accordance with an
Implementation Plan agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
This Implementation Plan shall be reviewed annually by the Borrower
and the Bank and such adjustments shall be made thereto as may be
warranted by the status of Project implementation and the
requirements of Project objectives.
(4)   The Borrower shall ensure the allocation for MOE of resources
adequate to cover the cost of equipment and furniture required for
the schools to be constructed under Part A of the Project, and of
other items included in the Implementation Plan.
B.    Implementation of Project Components
      Without limitation, the Implementation Plan shall include the
following:
(1)   Part A of the Project:
Page  11
      (a)   The selection of sites for the primary and preparatory
schools to be constructed under Part A of the Project shall be made
in accordance with criteria acceptable to MOE and the Association.
Such criteria shall endeavor, in particular, to improve access for
girls in rural areas, to reduce overcrowding in urban areas and to
achieve a proper balance of male, female and mixed-gender schools.
      (b)   The total number of schools to be constructed under Part
A of the Project shall be determined according to the number of
classrooms of each school and the final estimates of construction
costs.
      (c)   Responsibility for preparation of the design and bidding
documents for school construction shall be assigned in GAEB.
      (d)   MOE shall continue its on-going arrangements with NIB
whereby the latter shall be responsible for monitoring school
construction and for supervising adherence by contractors to
technical specifications and construction standards.
      (e)   MOE shall ensure, by December 31, 1993, the conclusion
with TOMOHAR of arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the
carrying out of the training programs for school maintenance,
referred to in Part A (2) of the Project.
      (f)   MOE shall obtain the Association's concurrence to the
plans for furnishing and equipping the schools included in Part A of
the Project.
      (g)   The Borrower shall cause MOE to introduce procedures for
maintenance of basic education schools in the seven governorates
referred to in Part A (1) of the Project which shall ensure (i) the
regular inspection by GAEB of such schools and its furnishing to MOE
of an annual report on their physical condition, and (ii) the
provision by MOE, in a timely manner, of the resources required for
maintenance of such schools.
      (h)   MOE shall ensure the inclusion in the progress reports
referred to in Part B.4 of this Schedule of information regarding
the operation of the maintenance procedures referred to in the
preceding paragraph g.
2.    Part B of the Project:
      (a)   Responsibility for the carrying out of Part B of the
Project shall be assigned to GDIST in coordination with PIU.
      (b)   MOE shall ensure, the staffing, by December 31, 1993, in
accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association, of the four
units of GDIST referred to in Part B (4) of the Project.
      (c)   MOE shall ensure the carrying out of the training
included in Part B (2) of the Project under arrangements and time-
schedule agreed upon with the Association.
3.    Part C of the Project:
      (a)   MOE shall maintain TCID with adequate resources and
facilities until the completion of Part C of the Project, and shall
assign to it the responsibility for the carrying out, in
coordination with PIU and CDEPI, of the measures for institutional
development referred to in Part C (1) and (2) of the Project.
      (b)   MOE shall ensure, not later than December 31, 1993, that
all senior positions in CDEPI shall be filled by appropriately
qualified persons.
      (c)   Measures for the carrying out of Part C (1) and (2) of
the Project shall include:
            (i)   the preparation by TCID and the furnishing to the
                  Association, by December 31, 1993, of the
Page  12
                  training programs referred to in Part C (1) (a)
                  of the Project, and the carrying out thereafter
                  of such programs under arrangements and time-
                  schedules satisfactory to the Borrower and the
                  Association;
           (ii)   the investigation of the needs, for purposes of
                  basic education planning and management, for
                  information at MOE's headquarters and at its
                  directorates in the Governorates;
          (iii)   the development on the basis thereof with the
                  assistance of experts, and the approval, by
                  November 30, 1993, of a plan for education
                  management information systems, specifying the
                  requirements for the implementation thereof in
                  terms of staffing, training, equipment and
                  materials; and
          (iv)    the development and putting into effect of an
                  incentive system adequate for MOE to retain
                  managers trained under Part C (1) of the Project.
      (d)   MOE shall (i) carry out the studies included in Part C
(3) of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association; (ii) ensure, by December 31, 1994, the
completion of such studies and the furnishing, through PIU, to the
Association of their findings and recommendations; and (iii)
prepare, in consultation with the Association, and thereafter carry
out a plan of action, based on alternatives consistent with the
Borrower's policies, objectives and programs in the education
sector.
4.    Review and Reporting
      (a)   MOE shall prepare, through PIU, and furnish to the
Association, on a format agreed upon between MOE and the
Association, quarterly reports on progress in the carrying out of
the Project.
      (b)   MOE shall conduct, jointly with the Association, by June
30, 1997, or such other date as the Association may agree, a mid-
term review of the Project.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Page  13
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
Page  14
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
