Docufient of
The World Bank
Report No. 15126 BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
October  1, 1996
Infrastructure
Urban, Water, Energy
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFAF
USS1.00 = CFAF 500
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 -- December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDI              Agence canadienne de developpement international (Canadian Agency for International
Development
AGETUR            Agence d'execution des travaux urbains (Urban Works Agency)
BAD               Banque africaine de developpement (African Development Bank)
BID               Banque islamique de developpement (Islamic Development Bank)
BOAD              Banque ouest africaine de developpement (West Africa Development Bank)
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CDEAO             Communaute des etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest
CFD               Caisse francaise de developpement (French Bilateral Aid)
CNCB              Conseil national des chargeurs du Benin (National Shippers Council)
CNSR              Centre national de la securite routiere
COBENAM           Compagnie beninoise de navigation maritime (Benin Maritime Navigation Company)
CPC               Cellule de programmation et de coordination (Programming and Coordination Unit)
CTN               Conseil technique national (National Technical Council for Rural Roads)
CU                Circonscription urbaine
DROA              Direction des routes et ouvrages d'art (Roads and Works Department)
DANIDA            Danish International Development Assistance
DMTP              Direction du materiel des travaux publics (Directorate of Public Works Equipment)
DTT               Direction des transports terrestres (Road and Rail Transport Directorate)
EAP               Environmental Action Plan
FED               Fonds europeen de developpement (European Development Fund)
GDP               Produit interieur brut (Gross Domestic Product)
ICB               International competitive bidding
IDA               Agence internationale de developpement (International Development Agency)
ERR               Taux de rentabilite economique (Economic Rate of Return)
KfW               Kredit fur Wiederaufbau (German Bilateral Aid)
MP                Ministere du Plan (Planning Ministry)
MTPT              Ministere des travaux publics et du transport (Ministry of Public Works and Transport)
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NGO               Organisation non gouvernementale (Nongovernmental Organization)
NPV               Valeur actuelle nette (Net Present Value)
OCBN              Organisation commune Benin-Niger (Benin-Niger Railway)
PAC               Port autonome de Cotonou (Benin Port Authority)
PIM               Manuel de mise en oeuvre (Program Implementation Manual)
PIP               Programme d'investissement public (Public Investment Program)
SAL               Prets a l'ajustement structurel (Structural Adjustment Lending)
SERHAU-SEM        Societe d'etudes regionales d'habitat et d'amenagement urbain (Regional Habitat &
Urban Development Studies Bureau)
SME               Petites et moyennes entreprises (Small and Medium Enterprises)
SOBEMAP           Societe beninoise de manutention portuaire (Benin Cargo Handling Company)
SROAs             Services regionaux des routes et ouvrages d'art (Regional Roads and Bridges Unit)
TIRP              Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
TSS               Strategie du secteur des transports (Transport Sector Strategy)



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Nos.
Credit and Project Summary ..................  iii-v
1.       BACKGROUND ............................................................1
A.       Introduction ............................................................1
B.       Macroeconomic Context ............................................................ 2
C.       Development Constraints and Broad Objectives ............              .............    3
2.       TRANSPORTATION  IN  BENIN                       ........................................................... 4
A.       Transport Sector Context .......................4........................          4
B.       Public and Private Stakeholders ................................................   7
C.       Lessons Learned from  Bank Group and Other Donors'
Involvement in the Transport Sector ............................................   11
D.       Transport Sector Issues and Strategy  ...........................................    12
3.    FIVE-YEAR TRANSPORT SECTOR PROGRAM ....................................... 17
A.       Program  Concept and Objectives .................................                 17
B.       Program  Description .................................                            17
C.       Program  Financing .................................   19
D.       Program  Implementation .................................                        20
E.       Components Supported by IDA  Credit .................................            21
F.       Cost and Local Financing of IDA  Components ............................  25
G.       Program  Implementation .................................                        26
H.       Procurement and Disbursement .............                 ....................   31
I.       Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .................................             34
J.       Supervision plan .................................   35
4.    BENEFITS, IMPACTS AND RISKS ............................  36
A.    Economic Analysis ........................                                           36
B.       Social and Environmental Aspects ........................                        38
C.    Poverty Aspects ........................                                            39
D.   Program Risks ........................                                               39



- 11 -
5.   AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .............   41
A.     Agreements reached before negotiations ......................................  41
B.     Conditions to be met ................................................  42
C.     Recommendation ................................................    43
ANNEXES
A.     Government Strategy Letter
B.     Detailed Program Costs, Schedules and Indicators
C.     Detailed Program Description
D.     Environmental Impact Assessment
E.     Economic Analysis
F.     Documents in Program File
MAPS
IBRD 27427 Road Infrastructure
IBRD 27428 Cotonou City Roads
IBRD 27429 Cotonou Port
IBRD 27430 1994 Road Traffic Volumes
This report is based on the findings of World Bank missions consisting of Messrs. Bernard Peccoud
(Highway Engineer, Leader), Grosdidier de Matons (Port Economist), Hedi Larbi (Urban Transport
Specialist), S. Haligrimsson (Principal Engineer), Denise Vaudaine (Municipal Finance Specialist),
Vincent Chagnaud (Road Economist), and Jean-Luc Aka-Adjo (Financial Analyst). Mr. Ian Heggie
was the Lead Advisor for this project, and Messrs. Michel Loir and J. J. Raoul were the peer
reviewers. Ms. Suzanne Snell provided editorial support. Ms. Farida Khan provided support for
the compilation of project cost tables. Ms. Elisabeth Herczeg also assisted in the preparation of the
report. Mr. Theodore Ahlers and Mrs. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard are the Country Director and
the Technical Manager, respectively, for the operation.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Benin
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTPT) for
US$34.7 M and Port Authority of Cotonou (PAC) for
US$5.3 M
Poverty:                 The project does not include specific targeted interventions
to reduce poverty. It will however have a significant
impact on poverty alleviation through the reduction of
transport costs, part of which would be transferred to rural
farmers in higher farm-gate prices. The program will also
improve access to social services, and will create
construction and maintenance jobs in the private sector.
Credit Amount:           SDR 27.5 million (US$40.0 M equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity
Onlending Terms:         Two-thirds as standard commercial loan terms (7.1 percent)
and one-third as equity to Port Authority.
Project Description:     Periodic road maintenance is the top priority item in the
1997-2001 Government Transport Program which amounts
to CFA franc 247 billion. The main components of the
Sector Investment Program are: (a) Paved Road
Construction, Rehabilitation and Maintenance: CFA
franc 134 billion for paving and CFA franc 51 billion for
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance and support for
restructuring of the road sector management to insure
adequate maintenance; (b) Unpaved Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance: CFA franc 10.5 billion for
rehabilitation and CFA franc 8.5 billion for periodic
maintenance; (c) Institutional Strengthening for Road
Network Management: CFA franc 4 billion for technical
assistance and training; (d) Feeder Roads with CFA franc
15.5 billion for road building; (e) Port and Maritime
Improvements, with CFA franc 18 billion for port



- iv -
operations improvements; and (f) Airport Rehabilitation,
with CFA franc 3.5 billion for critical runway
rehabilitation. Of the CFA franc 247 billion required to
finance the program, CFA franc 140 billion has already
been pledged by donors, a further CFA franc 28 billion is
currently under negotiation, and CFA franc 63 billion is
projected to be secured from donors during the program
period. IDA's US$40 M credit, which is included in the
CFA franc 140 billion pledged (8 percent of total program)
supports important Government policy commitments as
well as port and road works and is allocated as follows:
Port Operations and Management, US$5.7 M (13
percent of IDA Credit); Road Repair, Maintenance,
Safety and Network Management, US$32.1 M (71
percent); Rural Road Rehabilitation and Management,
US$3.1 M (7 percent); and Urban Road Improvements
and Traffic Management, US$4.3 M (9 percent).
Financing Plan:          IDA: US$40.0 M
Benin: US$5.2 M of which US$2.2 M by the Road Fund,
US$0.4 M PAC, and US$0.3 M beneficiaries, and US$2.3
M by the National Budget.
Benefits:                In the port, improvements in productivity yield shipper
savings in road transport cost, incurred when port
congestion in Cotonou diverts traffic to Lome, and physical
improvements in the port yield cost savings for cargo-
handling equipment. On national, rural and urban roads,
improved road surfaces yield vehicle operating cost
savings. On these bases, estimated cost savings from IDA-
supported port improvements yield an economic rate of
return (ERR) of 250 percent and a net present value (NPV)
of US$74 M. Unpaved road works to be funded under the
IDA Credit (52 percent of such works in program) show a
cost-weighted ERR of 103 percent and a NPV of US$67 M.
Other non-quantified but no less real benefits are expected
to flow from program-supported activities which promote
improvements in management and planning, effective use
of the five-year priority program as an investment tool,
development of a community-based, demand-driven rural
roads rehabilitation and maintenance strategy, better
contract management and better planning based on better
road data. Safety and traffic management activities will
reduce the cost of traffic accidents, in terms of human life
and productivity and damage to vehicles.



- v -
Risks:                  Given that the program has been designed to build on
existing positive initiatives and achievements in the sector,
IDA component risks are limited to new and innovative
activities introduced under the IDA components. These
are: (a) inadequate replenishment of Road Fund - ftnding
sources to be diversified through road tolls, return of
authority for direct collection of funds to Road Fund staff,
and gradual reduction of general budget support are
measures taken to reduce the likelihood of this risk; (b)
slow restructuring of DROA - restructuring has already
been accepted and assimilated by DROA staff and has led
the design of the reorganization process; (c) involvement of
local communities and NGOs - mobilization and
effectiveness of local communities will be increased
through the support of international NGOs under the close
supervision of IDA; and (d) continuous adherence of
donors to the priority program - donors agreed on the
Transport Sector Strategy and donor round table meeting
will be held every other year.
Maps:                   IBRD 27427 Road Infrastructure
IBRD 27428 Cotonou City Roads
IBRD 27429 Cotonou Port
IBRD 27430 1994 Road Traffic Volumes
Project ID No:          BJ-PA-1 17






1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   This is the first time that an integrated sector-wide investment approach has
been adopted for the sustainable development of a sector in Benin. IDA's Credit
together with pledges from other donors, would support implementation of the 1996-
2000 Transport Sector Priority Investment Program (the program) developed as part of
the Transport Sector Strategy. The sector approach:
* covers all the subsectors which still rely on Government financing or
guarantees;
*  makes optimal use of resources in order to achieve a sustainable equilibrium
between infrastructure maintenance and conventional capital investment,
including rehabilitation and network expansion;
•  gives sector management priority over investment;
*  has been prepared on the basis of broad consultation among local
stakeholders (Government authorities and private and public road users) and
donors active in the sector, with Government acting as leader;
*  is supported by all donors active in the sector; and
*  promotes standardized implementation procedures.
1.2   Previous projects supported by the Bank and other donors have sought to
improve road maintenance and sector performance, while financing port and road
construction and rehabilitation. Economic liberalization beginning in 1991 made
possible a rapid pace in transport sector policy reform. The ensuing economic revival
and dramatic increase in transport demand stimulated internal reorganizations and
adoption of more efficient road maintenance approaches, but also highlighted the need
for closer donor coordination and a more consistent coordination across subsectors, in
order to avoid overinvesting. The transport sector strategy and the associated priority
expenditure program provide a basis for such coordination and consistency. Together
they address the issues which continue to hamper sector productivity despite recent
progress, in particular road maintenance financing and overall port management. The
implementation of the strategy and program will bring a new dimension to recent
Government initiatives, with a view to improving Benin's comparative advantage and
competitiveness as a transit corridor to the Sahel.



B. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.3   Strategically positioned between Nigeria and French-speaking African countries
on the Gulf of Guinea, Benin is a small, narrow country with a long history as a regional
trading center. A natural transport corridor for landlocked Niger and western Nigeria,
Benin's highly open economy and low transport costs give it unquestionable advantages
in the transit trade to and from the Sahel in spite of facilitation difficulties within the
country. Beninese traders are also well placed to play the intermediary between the
huge Nigerian market and Benin's francophone neighbors. About 60 percent of its five
million residents live in villages and are primarily farmers, while about 40 percent live
in the two coastal centers, Cotonou, capital and port city (700,000) and Porto-Novo
(200,000) and in upcountry towns along the road to Niger.
1.4    With per capita income of about US$372 in 1995, Benin is somewhat better off
than its neighbors (Niger, Nigeria, Togo) but remains one of the ten least developed
countries in the world according to the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) human development index. Real GDP per capita has been increasing since
1991 and is expected to increase at 2.5 percent annually from 1995. Benin's principal
resources are its arable land and its trading capabilities, supported by an adequate
transport infrastructure. The primary sector accounts for about 35 percent of GDP,
more than 70 percent of exports--mostly cotton-- and 75 percent of employment, and
grew at 5.4 percent per annum during 1992-95. Food production (about 69 percent of
primary sector output and 25 percent of GDP) currently exceeds domestic consumption
(excluding rice), and the country is potentially self-sufficient in food. The tertiary
sector (52 percent of GDP) consists of vigorous trading, services and transport
activities, some formal but mostly informal, growing at an annual rate of 3.6 percent. A
small industrial sector (12 percent of GDP) features cotton processing, textiles and
cement production, and exploitation of limited offshore oil resources.
1.5   The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 has generated a strong supply
response. Led by good performance in cotton, textiles, and construction, real GDP grew
an estimated 3.6 percent in 1994 and 5.8 percent in 1995, one of the highest rates in the
CFA franc zone, and the overall impact on Benin's balance of payments of the January
1994 CFA franc exchange rate realignment has been positive. In contrast to the
political instability and economic stagnation of the 1970s and 1980s, when trade was
slow and productive sectors were poorly managed, a steady pace of economic reform
beginning in 1989 has resulted in overall economic revival, most visible in increased
road and port traffic in Cotonou and the opening of five new commercial banks. With
support from IDA under two structural adjustment credits, the role of the State in the
economy has been substantially reduced in favor of promoting private sector activities.
Government reinforced its adjustment strategy in connection with the 1994 exchange
rate adjustment, and recent reforms, including deregulation of private sector activities
and tax simplification, are contributing to increased private capital inflows. The main
objectives of the reinforced adjustment strategy, supported by a third structural
adjustment Credit (SAL III) approved in FY95, are: (a) faster GDP growth, with a target



- 3 -
of 5-6 percent in real terms from 1995; (b) reduced dependence on foreign assistance
through balanced budgets and improved balance of payments; (c) reduced poverty and
better social services delivery; and (d) rehabilitated social and physical infrastructure
and better human resource development.
C. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND BROAD OBJECTIVES
1.6   The road to recovery has not been easy and there remain serious economic
difficulties in all sectors. Benin's strategic objectives involve addressing generic issues
to development which apply across all sectors, namely: (a) regional competitiveness: a
relative lack of competitiveness in production. limiting export growth; (b) investment
policy: a low level of investment and continuing inefficiencies in public investment; (c)
expenditure policy: a structure of public expenditures favoring payroll over maintenance
and operations; (d) fiscal policy: a low level of domestic savings and limited financial
intermediation; (e) private sector: remaining disincentives to the expansion of private
sector economic activities; (f) capacity building: inadequate human resource
management, and a still substantial and relatively inefficient public sector; and (g)
environmental and poverty aspects: widespread soil erosion and the vulnerability of
low-income groups, which require attention if any economic growth strategy is to be
sustainable in the long run.
1.7   IDA's involvement in the transport sector investment program is consistent with
the broader objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed with the
Board in June 1994, which are to encourage and support private sector supply response
and ensure adequate provision of basic social services. The program directly supports
these objectives by: (a) creating an enabling environment for private sector activities
through reduction of transport costs and further liberalization and privatization of
transport operations; (b) supporting provision of basic social services by improving road
infrastructure, mainly rural, and urban transport management; (c) and supporting
agriculture sector growth by facilitating access to remote rural areas, which will also
help reduce poverty. A comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy prepared in 1994
using a broad participatory approach gave birth to the investment program. The
program, which is included in the CAS "base case" lending program, will help promote
sound economic management through a better balance between investment and
maintenance. It will promote consistent investment choices based on support to
economic growth. Finally, the use of sectoral environmental guidelines in the
program's execution will support the environmental strategy as defined in the National
Environmental Plan.






-4 -
2. TRANSPORTATION IN BENIN
A. TRANSPORT SECTOR CONTEXT
2.1   Role of the Transport Sector in the Economy. Benin's prosperity depends
heavily on trade and transport, and its transport sector is a major contributor to national
income. The formal transport sector accounted for 8 percent of GDP in 1995, but nearly
two-thirds of Beninese are involved in trade and related services, mostly through
informal sector, medium- and small-scale enterprises. Most urban residents earn their
living primarily from trade, and the efficiency of transport also has a major impact on
agricultural development.
2.2   Demand Structure. The transport sector is organized to meet three principal
aspects of demand: domestic cotton exports, transit traffic and trade with neighboring
countries, and internal trade between towns and rural areas. The primary sector
represents 35 percent of GDP, and agricultural products, especially cotton, make up the
bulk of export transport demand. Transit traffic is the second largest category of freight
transport demand. About 15 percent of all road traffic in vehlkm terms is international
in nature; half of this is traffic going to or from the port, and the other half is passing
through Benin (origin and destination outside the country). During the 1991-94 period,
14 percent, 5.4 percent and 2.4 percent of imports through the port of Cotonou were
officially destined for Niger, Nigeria or Togo, and Burkina Faso, respectively. Transit
demand is subject to considerable variation as a function of transport costs, but also in
response to volatile political and economic situations in the subregion, where changes in
import regulations and port operations and efficiency can cause dramatic shifts among
competing routes.
2.3   Network Structure. The country's shape takes the form of an elongated
corridor 800 km long and 300 km wide. The anchor of this north-south axis is the port
of Cotonou and its backbone is the Cotonou-Save-Parakou-Malanville road, a 790 km,
two-lane paved road, paralleled for about half of its length by the Cotonou-Parakou
metric rail line (see IBRD Map 27430). Road transport is centered around the port of
Cotonou. From Parakou, a two-lane gravel road which is currently being paved,
branches off to the west, through Natitingou, towards the border with Burkina Faso.
These main roads allow for the outflow of cotton from the main production centers to
the port. Two other main east-west roads, a coastal road from Lome to Lagos, and
another located about 150 km north of Cotonou through Bohicon, are the main links to
Nigeria and Togo.
2.4   Transport Modes. For reasons of cost and availability, road transport is the
dominant mode. Virtually all passengers (93 percent) and 73 percent of goods are
carried by road, the remaining traffic being handled by the railway. The modal split for



freight is about 50/50 on the Cotonou and Parakou where rail and road run side by side.
Rail traffic on this line has been faced with increased competition since the recent
paving of the gravel road between Save and Parakou. The market for air transport is
limited by the small size of the domestic market.
2.5    Transport Infrastructure. Investment in infrastructure has created adequate
networks in all modes. The total length of the road network is around 16,200 km. It
consists of 3,425 km of national roads, including interurban highways and primary
urban roads, 10,900 km of rural roads and around 1,800 km of municipal roads
(secondary and tertiary roads in urban areas). Eighty percent of the national road
network carries more than 50 vehicles a day, qualifying as the "priority" network, and
40 percent of the national road network is paved, including paving of Parakou-
Natitingou now underway (218 km, financed by the European Union, BID, Kuwaiti
Fund, BOAD, OPEP, CDEAO). The role of Benin as a transit corridor is apparent in its
network classification: international roads represent 64 percent, or 2,178 km, of the
national road network. Table 2.1 below shows the respective lengths of each network.
Table 2.1: Benin: Transport Sector Program
Road Network Lengths
Length (kmn)
Network                 Paved   Unpaved        Feeder         Total
National Road Network'
International                   1,256       922                      2,178
National                          161      1,086            -         1,247
Subtotal, National Roads           1,417      2,008           -         3,425
Rural Network                          -      3,100       7,827        10,927
Municipal Network                   loo       1,700           -         1,800
(secondary and tertiary)
Total, All Networks         1,517     6,808        7,827        16,152
About 20 km of the national road network are primary roads within Cotonou.
2.6    The port of Cotonou has a loading/unloading capacity of around 2.3 million
tons, given present operational practices, sufficient to meet demand until 1998; if
productivity can be raised to international standards, it could be sufficient until 2001.
Present port facilities consist essentially of 7 berths in deep water. The rail network is
constituted by a single metric track between Cotonou and Parakou (438 km). The
railway has a capacity of 600,000 tons, well above the 340,000 tons average annual
traffic forecast over the next five years. An arrangement with a truck pool allows the
rail shipments to complete their journey to Niger by truck (Parakou-Malanville-



-6 -
Niamey). The main runway at Cotonou international airport is 2,400 m long and 45 m
wide and requires reinforcement now. Runway, taxiways, and parking areas of Cotonou
airport were rehabilitated at the end of 1995. There are seven domestic airports serving
Parakou, Kandi, Natitingou, Save, Porga, Benbereke, and Djougou. These are equipped
with laterite runways, but have no night landing lights.
2.7   Trends in Road Traffic and Demand. Between 1987 and 1995, road traffic
registered an overall increase at the very high rate of 9 percent on paved roads and 6
percent on unpaved roads. Such strong growth was the result of both the political and
economic changes which occurred in Benin and the increase of trade transit since 1991
at the expense of the Togo corridor. Growth is twice as high for passengers than for
goods, and accident rates are among the highest in Africa. The interurban network is
adequate to face traffic increases, but the primary network in Cotonou is congested on
some sections.
2.8   Urban passenger transport demand in Cotonou is estimated at 390,000 trips per
weekday, based on the average daily taxi and mototaxi earnings. The modal split is
dominated by mototaxis which carry 81 percent of trips. For all shared modes, average
mobility is 0.6 trips per resident per day, a relatively high trip rate compared to that
observed in African cities with good bus networks. This high mobility is due to the
high level of commercial activity in Cotonou and a strong supply response, particularly
from the informal sector. In the city of Cotonou alone, there are an estimated 60,000
two-wheelers, of which 30 percent are used as taxis for public transport in the city
(compared to a total domestic vehicle fleet estimated at 42,000 units in 1994).
2.9   Traffic through the port of Cotonou is characterized by wide annual variations.
Annual port traffic volumes peaked in 1979 at 1.5 M T in response to overflow from
saturation of the port of Lagos, and in 1993 at 1.75 M T due to the virtual shutdown of
the port of Lome, because of the political situation in Togo. Since 1989, traffic has
steadily increased from 900,000 T to 2.050 M T in 1995. Used vehicle imports have
been a major growth factor: annual imports of used vehicles from Europe through the
port of Cotonou increased more than tenfold in four years, from 3,500 in 1988 to 40,000
in 1992, and Benin has become a very active regional repair and distribution center for
used vehicles. The port authority's operating plan for 1995-2000 is based on a realistic
overall annual growth rate of 4.8 percent for port traffic. If no change occurs in
operating practices, saturation would be reached at 2.3 M T (in 1998) but if perforrnance
improves to the standards of other ports in the region, saturation would be reached at 2.7
M T (2001). In other words, under present operating conditions, expected traffic levels
could not be handled by 1998.
2.10  Demand for air travel is increasing slowly. Traffic forecasts indicate a volume
of about 280,000 passengers by the year 2000 compared to about 245,000 passengers in
1994. Most traffic is actually international travel and domestic demand for air travel is
quite low due to short travel distances and the failure of domestic air carriers. Benin is



not a major tourist destination; what regional tourism does arrive, originates from
Nigeria and Togo and relies mainly on the road network.
2.11  Transport Sector Financing. Revenues from taxes and fees collected from the
transport sector amounted to nearly CFA franc 3.7 billion in 1990 and CFA franc 6.9
billion in 1993, with 1994 revenues estimated at CFA franc 5.7 billion. Resources
allocated directly or through the Treasury in 1994 to the Road Fund represent around 40
percent of these revenues (CFA franc 2.4 billion). In order to survive in a competitive
market, carriers have resorted to tax evasion, The low tax collection is mostly due to
illegal fuel imports (80 percent of all fuel consumption from 1991-94 and 70 percent in
1995), estimated to be as much as CFA franc 8 billion. An additional CFA franc 2.5
billion is lost from uncollected customs duties on imported cars, and CFA franc 0.5
billion from other evaded taxes. Only road tolls are collected from both formal and
informal sectors in a fair manner. In this area, Benin is performing well, collecting
about 20 percent of the Road Fund resources through road tolls.
B. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STAKEHOLDERS
Public Sector
2.12  The Ministries. The Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTPT)
continues to dominate the sector through its responsibility for (a) overall management
of transport and public works sectors, including sector and subsector strategy and
subsector coordination; and (b) road investment programming and implementation and
maintenance of the national and rural road networks, including the primary urban road
network. Responsibility for other urban roads is held by the municipalities in the main
cities (Cotonou, Porto-Novo, Parakou), and in the smaller cities and towns by the
Ministry of Environment, Urban Development and Housing (MEHU). MTPT
coordinates its rural road operations with those included in donor-financed rural
development projects, under the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), through a
National Technical Council for Rural Roads (CTN), which began regular meetings in
early 1995. Autonomous port and rail entities have taken over investment programming
and implementation and infrastructure maintenance from MTPT. Airport management
will also be subcontracted to an autonomous agency which is currently being created.
The Ministries of Planning and Finance are also involved in the Public Investment
Program (PIP) and in providing counterpart funds and Road Fund subsidies.
2.13  Railway and Port Operators. The railway company (OCBN) is jointly owned
by the governments of Benin and Niger and the maritime navigation company
(COBENAM) by the governments of Benin and Algeria. Privatization of OCBN would
likely be problematic, since rail operations are barely profitable due to fierce
competitive pressure from road transport. The port authority (PAC), under Government
ownership, is directly responsible only for coordination of port operations and contracts
out other activities such as maintenance and security. COBENAM, the public shipping
company, continues to exist despite the fact that it owns no ships. All other port



-8 -
operations (transit, consignment) are fully privatized. State-owned SOBEMAP holds a
monopoly on cargo handling in the port; another parastatal (CNCB) coordinates
national shippers and supports them through training and assistance. SOBEMAP is
being supported by French bilateral aid (CFD) which has financed its restructuring. At
current levels of port traffic, full privatization at this time could lead to control of all
cargo handling in the hands of a single private company. This would introduce
vulnerability into one of the most rapidly growing areas of Benin's economy.
Therefore, Government is considering only progressive privatization, starting with
container handling operations.
2.14 MTPT's Directorates. New management brought into MTPT in 1991
immediately began to design and carry out a very effective, internally driven
reorganization which has corrected structural flaws and turned it into a sound
organization. Where before a single central unit (Direction des etudes et des
programmes) had de facto authority for both programming and execution, these
functions were separated in February 1992 between a programming unit (Cellule de
programmation et de coordination or CPC), and the roads and bridges department
(DROA) for the road subsector. Each has since demonstrated its efficiency, CPC by
managing preparation of the transport sector strategy, and DROA by reducing road
maintenance costs by 80 percent and keeping both paved and unpaved priority networks
open for the last several years (half of the unpaved network had become impassable in
the rainy season during the 1980s). Other structural changes brought the previously
illsupervised regional maintenance units under DROA's authority, began contracting
out maintenance works to the private sector, reduced force account teams, and made the
former equipment section into a separate department (DMTP) requiring chargeback to
DROA of equipment rental costs. Further improvements in field data collection,
maintenance of bridges and culverts, redeployment and training of staff, and
streamlining of contractor payment processing, recently proposed by DROA, would
make DROA one of the most effective road transport agencies in the region.
2.15  Road Maintenance Financing and Execution Entities. The Road Fund
finances road maintenance activities executed or supervised by DROA. It was created
in 1984 as an independent public body to finance only road maintenance, with a board
which includes user representatives. In fact, the Road Fund has not been independent:
subsequent decrees allowed MTPT to directly manage the Road Fund, and the Minister
has been the chairman of the board. As a result, the Road Fund has financed not only
road maintenance but also road investments and certain MTPT operating costs,
including the salaries of DROA staff involved in road maintenance and other tasks.
DROA carries out its authority for the maintenance of the whole network (interstate,
national and rural) through its six regional services (SROA), under the supervision of its
road maintenance office (Sous-Direction de l'entretien routier or S/RER). SROAs are
in charge of preparing maintenance programns, executing or contracting out minor
rehabilitation works and periodic and routine maintenance operations, and monitoring
maintenance works undertaken under contract and by force account. DROA's road
management office (Bureau de gestion du reseau or BGR) is responsible for collecting



-9-
and processing the network status and traffic data, which are the basis for the
preparation of investment and maintenance programs.
2.16  Municipality of Cotonou. While Cotonou's primary road network is part of
MTPT's national network, the rest of the urban network is the responsibility of the
municipality of Cotonou (Circonscription urbaine or CU), which comes under the
authority of the Interior Ministry. To manage this network, Cotonou CU has recently
created technical units (Cellules techniques de la circonscription urbaine or CTCU),
which to date have limited authority. A Cotonou traffic management unit was created at
the end of 1995 within the Cotonou CTU. Cotonou CU also draws on the services of a
regional urban development studies bureau (SERHAU-SEM) and of an urban works
agency (AGETUR). SERHAU was created in 1985 as a public-private venture which
participates, under contract, in the implementation of the ongoing Urban Rehabilitation
and Management Project (Credit BEN-2338). AGETUR was created in 1990 as a non-
profit association which manages contracts with private firmns to carry out civil works,
including the preparation of bidding documents, call for bids, evaluation of bids and
contract award, monitoring of payments and works supervision.
2.17  National Road Safety Center. The National Road Safety Center (CNSR) was
established in 1988 with IDA assistance under the Third Highway Project, in response
to high road accident rates in Benin, as a permanent institution devoted to the design
and implementation of a road safety policy for Government. Its US$1.2 million annual
operating costs are divided about equally between civil service payroll and Government
direct subsidies on the one hand, and CNSR revenues from vehicle inspection centers
on the other. The CNSR enjoys considerable respect in West Africa, and its work is
being observed by similar organizations in neighboring countries, with regional
interaction, centered on CNSR, now in the making. It has focused on two main tasks:
(a) systematic analysis of accident statistics available from 1988 to the present; and (b) a
road safety program involving vehicle inspection, driver instruction, media information,
and random roadside checks. The CNSR is a well-run operation and has succeeded in
inspecting annually 35,000 of the 45,000 vehicles on the road, with only one full-time
inspection station in Cotonou and part-time inspections in Parakou and Bohicon. As a
result, accident rates appear to be leveling off, in spite of a rapid increase in
motorization and a vehicle fleet, more than 90 percent of which is more than 10 years
old.
Private Sector
2.18  Since 1984, transport sector liberalization has seen the withdrawal of public
entities from production activities, including road maintenance, road freight transport
and passenger transport. Most road rehabilitation, and periodic and routine maintenance
works, are already subcontracted to private operators, and road toll collections are being
subcontracted. MTPT intends to cap the level of force account maintenance at the
current level of about CFA franc I billion a year and contract out all planned increases
in road maintenance activities, reaching about CFA franc 3 billion by 1998.



- 10-
2.19  Informal Transport Operators. Most transport operations are carried out by
the informal sector. The exceptions are private companies. either owned by foreign
partners (new car dealers), or close to the fonnal sector (freight transport for the railway
and for the cotton company). but the rest of freight transport is mainly informal. Port
operations such as transit and consignment are officially carried out by formal sector
companies, but in fact are subcontracted in part to informal operators. Urban and
interurban passenger transport is fully infornal, although operators have been registered
by the municipalities since 1992. Finally, the used car market is almost completely
informal. The flexibility and quick supply response characteristic of the informal sector
give the Beninese economy, in particular its transport sector, a major comparative
advantage over those of its neighbors.
2.20  Local Civil Works Industry. The civil works private sector has grown
dramatically since 1990. This growth has been fueled by the establishment of two
contracting agencies, AGETUR and the Agency for Management of the Social
Dimension of Adjustment (AGDSD), the availability of funds for the rehabilitation of
Cotonou's municipal network, and the privatization of a portion of MTPT's unpaved
road rehabilitation works. Some 800 contractors (construction and public works) have
been identified in Cotonou and Porto Novo. Many of these belong to the informal
sector. Some 38 firms constitute the most formal part of the sector and have
demonstrated their willingness and capacity to meet public works demand.
Privatization of road maintenance on MTPT networks began in 1988. Since 1991,
around 50 percent of the minor rehabilitation operations (drainage structure repairs and
spot rehabilitation) have been executed under contract. Privatization of routine
maintenance was started in 1991 and by 1993 had expanded to cover 40 percent of
manual maintenance operations and 14 percent of routine maintenance expenses. A
contract for a pilot mechanized routine maintenance operation was awarded in 1993,
and by 1998, 75 percent of road maintenance works will be contracted out.
2.21   Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). Prior to 1991, only religious
organizations, mostly foreign, were active in both urban and rural areas. The
democratic revival of 1989 resulted in the establishment of hundreds of local NGOs,
and with the encouragement now being given to private initiatives, the numbers
continue to grow. NGOs are involved in natural resources management, provision of
basic health care, training and education, and support to income-generating activities. A
number of NGOs focus primarily on rural women. providing training in nutrition and
health education through participatory techniques developed by the West Africa Center
of Social and Economic Studies in Burkina Faso. and by the Research Group for
Support of Rural Self Promotion. At least four international NGOs are very active in
Benin in the areas of rural roads, SME promotion, and construction of rural
infrastructure such as wells and small earth dams.



C. LESSONS LEARNED FROM BANK GROUP AND OTHER
DONORS' INVOLVEMENT IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Donor Involvement
2.22  The European Development Fund (FED) and IDA are the two most active
donors in the transport sector. FED has financed mainly road paving and rural roads, as
have the African Development Bank (BAD), the West Africa Development Bank
(BOAD) and German bilateral aid (KfW). French bilateral aid (CFD) has financed
infrastructure and equipment rehabilitation for the port, the railroad and Cotonou airport
and also rural roads. Other donors (Islamic Development Bank or BID, Community of
West African States or CDEAO. and Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries or
OPEP) finance smaller amounts of specitic road paving works. Prior to the preparation
of the 1994 transport sector strategy, the lack of a single unifying strategy led to
conflicting initiatives by different donors.
Past IDA Involvement
2.23   Since 1970, IDA has supported nine projects in Beninl's transport sector. These
have had a major impact on the road network and port capacity: virtually the entire
priority road network has benefited directly from works financed by IDA (see Map
IBRD 27427), and most major works in the port since its opening in 1965, in particular
the doubling of its capacity in the early 1980s, have been financed by IDA. These
transport projects have also supported major sectoral reforms, including establishment
of a Road Fund, a major financial and staff restructuring by the port authority, and
preparation of transport sector strategies in 1984 and in 1994. During the recent
Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr. 1807-BEN), under
the leadership of a small group of local technical managers, road investment and road
maintenance improved markedly: the unpaved road network has remained free of
serious cuts even during rainy seasons.
Lessons Learned
2.24  There are four main conclusions drawsn from these IDA-supported projects: (a)
Road Fund dependence on budget allocations or earmarked fuel taxes has not generated
sufficient resources to ensure maintenance of infrastructure; what is needed is direct
funding by user charges (extension of road tolls, which have proven successful); (b) the
lack of coordination among donors and among transport entities has been a major
obstacle to the sustainability of reforms; what is needed is agreement to follow a single
sector strategy; (c) Government's effectiveness in transport programs has varied directly
as a function of the continuity of leadership, within the Ministry; what is needed is a
continuation of leadership. avoiding the high staff turnover.
2.25   The fourth lesson relates to the need for more mechanisms for participation by
users and operators. The 1992-94 preparation of the sector strategy benefited greatly
from a new consultation process, adopted in the wake of democratization beginning in



- 12 -
1989. There remain a few key areas where adoption of this process would yield broad
benefits. In the port, special interests stand in the way of greater user and operator
involvement in decision-making: the monopoly of the cargo handling authority,
SOBEMAP, and the privileges of customs officers. Decisions about road maintenance
priorities continue to be dominated by internal administrative considerations, rather than
by road users. Meeting users' and operators' needs is critical to improving transport
facilitation and lowering transport costs in the future.
D. TRANSPORT SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY
The 1994 Transport Sector Strategy Report
2.26   Preparation. Studies carried out in 1992 by MTPT, completed in April 1993,
have formed the basis for the Transport Sector Strategy. focusing on facilitation,
fiscal/financial and capacity building. Broad consultation of public and private
stakeholders was sought through a number of seminars, allowing a broad exchange of
views, and developing a national sector policy. Govenument presented its transport
sector strategy to donors at a Round Table meeting in October 1993. Comprehensive
discussions of this strategy continued during Bank visits in December 1993, and in
March 1994 a Transport Sector Strategy Report. prepared jointly by MTPT and the
World Bank. was issued (Transport Sector Strategy Report No. 12098-BEN, March 15,
1994). This transport strategy, summarized briefly below, was subsequently
incorporated into IDA's country assistance strategy. and has continued to generate
substantial momentum for change in Benin. Policy changes and other measures put into
effect since the strategy's publication are covered below. Government's February 1996
Strategy Letter (ANNEX A), and detailed action plans (see ANNEX B), reflect both
these recent developments and also the next steps which Government is planning to take
in support of the sector strategy.
2.27  Findings. The Strategy report defines strategies for the sector as a whole and
for each of the five subsectors (road, road transport, port and maritime, rail and air).
The main findings are that Benin's transport infrastructure is well adapted to demand,
and major improvements have been achieved under the recently completed Transport
Rehabilitation Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr.
1807-BEN). Since 1984, liberalization and privatization of transport activities have
resolved many of the issues raised in the first sector strategy report (1984), and
leadership within DROA has led to improvement in road conditions, especially on
unpaved roads. Physically. institutionally. and financially. Benin is close to being able
to manage its road system. independent of external assistance. Problems in road
transport management, which weaken Benin's ability to compete against other corridors
and to support growth in the agricultural sector, can be resolved within the framework
of the strategy. Specific actions are recommended. A five-year programming approach
is recommended to create a strong foundation for transport maintenance and investment
for the remainder of the decade.



- 13 -
Road Maintenance.
2.28  The main issues are (a) continued vulnerability of even improved and
maintained unpaved and paved roads; (b) continued shortfalls of about CFA franc 2.5
billion per year in funding of road maintenance through the Road Fund; and (c) specific
technical weaknesses within the Ministry in traffic data collection, works programming
and contract management. Since 1992, road maintenance operations have dramatically
improved and the major issue now by far is the shortage of funds. Until 1994, the Road
Fund's main income source was a share of fuel tax revenues. Due to the collapse of the
economy in the late 1980s and the unauthorized and tax-free importation from Nigeria
of around 80 percent of all fuel consumed in Benin during 1991-94, fuel tax income has
contributed an average of only 23 percent of Road Fund resources. In addition, because
the Road Fund lacks real autonomy and MTPT continually interferes in its
management, only 60 percent of total resources are used for road maintenance.
2.29  Road Fund Restructuring. The statutes of the Road Fund (see Para. 2.15) are
being revised to give it greater autonomy from MTPT and to guarantee the use of its
resources for road maintenance. The new statutes will: (i) increase the power of the
board, which includes road user representatives, by giving it authority to nominate its
chairman and select its managers; and (ii) limit Road Fund interventions to financing
the maintenance of MTPT-managed road networks and of expenses directly related to
the management of road maintenance, giving priority to routine maintenance. The Road
Fund will no longer finance payroll costs and other operating costs for road
maintenance activities, but only the costs of works under performance-based contracts,
whether executed by force account units or private enterprises. Revised Road Fund
statutes satisfactory to IDA have been finalized as a condition of negotiations (Decree
No. 96-373 of August 29, 1996). Its new management tools will be installed as stated
in a supplemental letter agreed upon at negotiations (see ANNEX B).
2.30  Road Maintenance Financing. An essentially self-financing plan has been
worked out based on the increase in Road Fund resources and on the reduction of road
maintenance costs. Road Fund resources will be increased to ensure adequate financing
for all routine road maintenance, and progressively for periodic maintenance as well.
Three major steps in this direction were taken in 1995: the road tax collected at the port
site was increased from 0.15 percent to 0.85 percent of merchandise value,
Government's contribution to the Road Fund was increased from CFA franc 400
million to CFA franc 600 million. and road toll collection was turned over to private
firms. As a result. the Road Fund collected around CFA franc 2.1 billion in 1995
compared to an average of CFA 1I.1 billion annually from 1989 to 1994. Additional
resources will come from the extension of the road toll system to the entire paved
network, expected to increase toll collections from the current CFA franc 200 million
(US$0.7 million) annually to about CFA franc 1.5 billion (US$5.5 million) a year.
These new revenues will be adequate to finance 100 percent and 30 percent of routine
and periodic maintenance respectively, starting in 1997. The gap for periodic



- 14-
maintenance will continue to be financed by the national investment budget until the
Road Fund is able to finance it.
2.31   The Road Fund will reduce its payroll costs, as defined in the January 1996
strategy letter, by encouraging early staff retirement and entering into single-man
contractor agreements with the remaining maintenance laborers (about 350).
Implementation of an early staff retirement plan started before negotiations of the
proposed IDA credit. Completion of staff restructuring will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit. The Road Fund's financial situation would
also be strengthened by accepting a lower service level, by transferring part of the cost
of maintenance on non-priority rural roads (less than 50 veh/day) to local users, and by
transferring urban road maintenance to municipalities.
2.32   Road Maintenance Execution and Programming. In order to guarantee the
optimal use of Road Fund financing, MTPT will implement measures to improve road
maintenance performance. MTPT will optimize the deployment of existing staff and
reinforce skill levels, in order to meet requirements and to allow for adaptation to the
progressive privatization of road maintenance operations. The top priorities will be
given to staff management, user cost recovery, data collection, procurement, and bridge
and drainage structure management within DROA. In its February 1996 policy letter
(see Annex A), Government decided to: (a) limit the extent of force account activities to
a fixed CFA franc I billion per year, with the balance of an increasing road maintenance
budget being contracted out to private companies; (b) disengage itself progressively
from heavy equipment management; (c) promote development of private sector capacity
to carry out public works by facilitating private enterprises' access to public contracts,
and by establishing a self-supporting technical advisory office for SMEs; (d) delegate
authority to sign maintenance contracts up to US$1 million equivalent to MTPT; and (e)
increase involvement of users in road maintenance planning and rural road maintenance
and planning and transfer part of its financing to local communities. The reorganization
of DROA will be completed as defined in a supplemental letter agreed upon at
negotiation (see ANNEX B).
2.33   Road Transport. Road transit traffic toward neighboring countries is hindered
by cumbersome regulations; more than 20 checkpoints on the road from Cotonou to the
Niger border add an estimated 20 to 30 percent, or CFA franc 2 billion per year, to
transport costs on this route. To facilitate road transport, Government intends to (a)
improve facilitation of road transport and increase operator competence; (b) improve
road safety and service quality by improved ftnctioning of the used vehicles market,
including vehicle inspection; (c) improve performance of urban mototaxis by
establishing traffic management and modifying roads; and (d) encourage transport
operators to move progressively from the informal sector to the formal sector through a
better professional environment. Organizational and regulatory aspects would be
addressed by developing mechanisms for transport users in Cotonou to bring pressure to
bear, improving existing regulations and statistics supporting road safety agencies and



- 15 -
road transport associations, and reviewing regulation of commercial trade movements in
close coordination with Niger.
Port Operations and Maritime Issues
2.34  The port of Cotonou compares very poorly with its competitors in terms of
transport facilitation and operational productivity. Freight handling productivity is half
of that in Dakar and transit time for a container through the port is around ten days,
more than twice the average time in other regional ports. The main reasons are slow
administrative procedures; poor performance, in particular of the customs office; lack of
accountability regarding the overall port performance; and congestion due to the high
volume of used vehicle imports passing through the port area. Despite major cost-
cutting reforms and years of technical assistance in finance and accounting, the port
authority, PAC, remains in poor financial health. In response to these issues,
Government measures included in the Transport Sector Strategy were to (a) restrict new
port investment to the minimum necessary to handle basic traffic levels and introduce
cost accounting at PAC; (b) restrict the port area for port activities; (c) improve
SOBEMAP operations and subcontract cargo handling in the port when SOBEMAP
fails to perform and when sudden traffic increases create port congestion; (d) collect
data on the efficiency of port operators and administrative bodies, identify the
bottlenecks, and implement and monitor the necessary changes to reduce delays; (e)
clarify responsibilities along the transport chain; and (f) review COBENAM and CNCB
roles and activities in light of regional developments. Since the strategy report, the
following initiatives have been undertaken in the area of Port operations management
and coordination, and PAC's financial situation.
2.35  Port Coordination. In its February 1996 strategy letter, Government
announced its decision to give priority to improve overall port performance, in
preference to the earlier approach of focusing on individual operators, by strengthening
the power of the port authority (PAC). PAC's statutes will be strengthened to give it the
authority to enforce coordination and supervision of port operations, including specific
authority over port operators' technical performance in accordance with the decrees
signed on May 31, 1996. PAC's new statutes were finalized before negotiations of the
proposed IDA credit and will not be modified without IDA's agreement. Under these
statutes, PAC will be held accountable for specific measures listed in Government's
strategy letter, including transfer of container customs inspection to an area outside the
main port compound, along with storage and sale of used vehicles. All public actors
(SOBEMAP, Customs, COBENAM and CNCB) would be linked by the port operation
management software (Portware) used by PAC so as to increase the operational
transparency and allow PAC to actually monitor their performance. A step towards
dissolving SOBEMAP's monopoly would be taken, by assigning operations of the
container handling to a private company.
2.36  PAC's Financial Situation. To allow PAC to play its new role, its financial
situation will be strengthened. PAC has adopted a stricter policy towards non-paying



- 16-
clients, prepared a plan to further improve its accounting systems, including staff
retraining, and decided to commission an update of the port development plan. PAC
will also continue to work towards a sound and sustainable financial situation. To this
end and subject to annual updating discussed as part of the updating of the sector
investment program, PAC has set the following specific targets: (a) to freeze payroll
expenditures at current levels until the year 2000; (b) to set aside around CFA franc 420
million to finance routine and periodic maintenance; (c) to limit external borrowing to
CFA franc 3 billion over the next six years; and (d) to limit investment expenditures
over the next six years to the strict minimum required for agreed improvements in
operational performance.
Rail and Air Sector Issues
2.37  The rail company, OCBN is not competitive, and airport infrastructure is close
to failure. Government signed a "contract-plan" with OCBN in 1994 which includes
measures to improve OCBN's management performance and should enhance its
competitiveness. Under its "contract-plan" with the Government, OCBN has been
given productivity targets and provision has been made that OCBN will receive no
subsidy nor any guarantee for loans. Performance in meeting "contract-plan" provisions
will be reviewed with IDA every year. This makes OCBN financially independent and
creates a real incentive for performance improvement. The French CFD is supporting
OCBN and finances its investment program, together with technical support. In the air
subsector, Government is establishing an autonomous entity which will start managing
airport operations with the support of French bilateral aid (CFD) beginning in June
1996. The Cotonou airport should generate enough revenues to cover operating and
maintenance expenses for the whole sector, including the domestic airports, and to
ensure debt service for the financing of the upgrading program.






- 17 -
3. FIVE-YEAR TRANSPORT SECTOR PROGRAM
A. PROGRAM CONCEPT AND OBJECTIVES
3.1   The Government's 1996-2000 Transport Sector Priority Investment Program
reflects the priorities agreed in the recent Transport Sector Strategy and confirmed in
Government's Strategy Letter (see ANNEX A). Strategy objectives relate directly to
country issues of competitiveness, administrative capacity, resource mobilization, and
private sector participation. They are (a) to safeguard the competitiveness of Benin's
transport sector and of its transit corridor through open modal competition; (b) to improve
Government's capacity for planning, programming, and managing transport sector
investments; (c) to boost the allocation of resources to infrastructure maintenance; (d) to
boost the recovery of infrastructure user charges; (e) to expand private sector participation
in public works and maximize its impact on the creation of jobs for unskilled labor; (f) to
build capacity in sector institutions and optimize human resource utilization; and (f) to
protect the environment and improve road safety conditions.
3.2   The proposed program is the first to be conceived in the context of a sector
strategy, based on a full review of the evidence and open debate by participants. Port
operations and facilitation will be improved by networking PAC with all port and customs
agencies so that PAC can fully deploy existing computer-based management tools.
Selection of critical priority unpaved road works to be financed under the program has
been based on minimum service levels required at specific traffic volumes, using a
methodology developed by DROA during the recently completed Transport Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project, which optimizes the use of available resources. The program
supports the extension of generalized road user tolls proven in Benin as the most reliable
means of road infrastructure cost recovery, given the constraints on the alternative means
of fuel taxation. The program design also supports Government objectives (a) to increase
user participation in road maintenance finance and management, as in the case of rural
road maintenance; and (b) to facilitate private sector construction industry in maintenance
works contracting, in particular for small urban improvements. The program would also
introduce one small new entity, an urban traffic management unit, under the responsibility
of the city of Cotonou. Issues identified during the design phase, Government's response
to date, and specific measures Government plans to implement over the next few years are
summarized in action plan form in ANNEX B.
B. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
3.3   Management of transport sector investment by means of a rolling five-year priority
investment program is a key element of Government's transport strategy. Such a program
was first drafted as part of the sector strategy preparation, and was updated and reviewed
with other donors at appraisal of the proposed program. The composition of the priority
program and its phasing are shown in Table 3.1. The program, which includes all
ongoing operations, will be updated each year by adjusting total sector investment to



- 18-
current macroeconomic conditions and adding new works only when they are justified. It
will be broken down into successive phases of execution, defined in agreement with the
involved donors during annual meetings. Total program cost amounts to CFA franc 247
billion (US$494 million) over the 1996-2000 period, or roughly a third of estimated gross
fixed capital formation over the same period (CFA franc 680 billion), which is consistent
with the transport sector's past and expected future share of fixed capital formation and
public investment. The peak shown for 1996-1998 is due to the expense for the upgrading
of Cotonou-Porto Novo Road. Transport represents one third of public investment and
continues to be the highest of any sector (compared to about 20 percent each for rural
development and social services).
Table 3.1: Benin: 1996-2000 Five-year Priority Transport Sector Investment Program
(CFA franc millions)
Subsectors              1996     1997   1998    1999   2000   Total
Paved and Unpaved     51,000   61,000  50,000  40,000  22,700  224,700
Road Networks
Road Transport & Safety  100      100    100      100             400
Port & Maritime         5,000    4,000   5,000   3,000   1,400   18,400
Civil Aviation           400    2,600    200      100    200    3,500
TOTAL                  56,500   67,700  55,300  43,200  24,300  247,000
3.4    About 90 percent of the five-year priority program cost consists of road paving
and repair and periodic road maintenance, required to bring the paved and unpaved
networks up to a fair or good standard. Periodic road maintenance is the top priority in the
program. Government would continue to finance investment and maintenance of the
priority rural network at expenditure levels justified from an economic viewpoint,
normally when traffic exceeds 50 veh/day.
3.5   The new investments included in the program are intended strictly to upgrade
existing infrastructure and strengthen institutions and procedures required to improve
productivity. In particular, no expansion is foreseen in port berthing capacity until after
the year 2000. No provision is made in the government investment program for rail
investment (OCBN) which will no longer be receiving public funds or investment
guarantees under the provisions of the "contrat-plan" signed between the Benin and Niger
governments and OCBN. The program does include the paving of 318 km of gravel roads
(of which 218 now underway), amounting to 9 percent of the program. Paving of a 60 km
road section providing the main link into the Burkina Faso road system (Natitingou-
Porga), and of another 200 km linking this section to the coastal region which provides
alternate paved routings to the existing main north-south road (Savalou-Djougou-Ouake),
have been included in the program at Government request, despite these investments' low
economic justification (ERR below 12 percent). They have been phased at the end of the
period and only about a fifth of their actual estimated cost has been included (CFA franc
7.8 million versus 44 million). Considered as a last priority, their ultimate inclusion in the
PIP is subject to discussion following implementation of higher priority works.



- 19 -
C. PROGRAM FINANCING
3.6      Following discussions at appraisal with Government and external donors,
financing has been secured for CFA franc 156 billion of the CFA franc 246 billion in the
current program, including about CFA franc 20 billion equivalent from the proposed IDA
Credit, and local counterpart fumds for all five years (CFA franc 16 billion). Financing
agreed at the date of this report, for both ongoing operations and those about to start is
shown in Table 3.2. French bilateral aid (CFD) will finance around CFA franc 9 billion
for improvements in the port (cargo handling equipment replacement, technical assistance)
and airport (runway rehabilitation). Financing of CFA franc 11 billion of road
construction and rehabilitation already underway or about to begin on the paved network
has already been obtained from BID, the Kuwait Fund, BOAD, OPEP, CDEAO, BAD,
DANIDA, KfW, and FED.
Table 3.2:  Benin: 1996-2000 Priority Transport Investment Program and Financing Arrangements
(CFA franc millions)
Subsectors                 Funds from Benin      IDA                            Other donors                         TOTAL
(1)            funds
(proposed)
Funding    Funding
gap under    gap to
Committed funds            negotia-   be found
tion
1. ROADS
Paved-construction      6,800 (NB)               2,600   BID, BOAD. OPEP.    67,200           24,800     32,800    134,100
BAD
CEDEAO, FED, KFW.
Paved-rehabilitation      600 (NB)                       FED, DANDER              32.900       3,100                36,600
Paved-periodic Main.     900 (NB)                        CFD                       2.400                 12,100     15,400
Unpaved -rehabilitation  1,000 (NB)              6,000   BAD                                              3,000     10,500
Unpaved-periodic main.    2,300 (RF)             3,300  --                                                2,900      8,500
Feederroads              2,500(NB+ BEN)          1,400   KFW, BAD, FED, CFD       10,200                   1.400    15,500
Instit. strengthening      200 (NB+BEN)          3,800   CFD. PAC. BAD, FED,                                        4,000*
ACDI *
Subtotal Roads             14,300                  17,100                           113,200      27,900     52,100    224,600
2. TRANSPORT
Road transport                                                                                                           80
Road safety                 75 (NB)                                --                    -                              325
Subtotal, Transport                                                                        -                              405
3. PORT & MARITIME
Port of Cotonou          1,200 (PAC)             2,600            ---                                     8,800     12,600
Cargo handling             SOBEMAP                               CFD               5,300                             5,300
Merchant marine                                                                          -                             460
Subtotal, Port & Mar.       1,200                   2,600                             5,300                  9,260     18,360
4. AIRPORT                             --                          CFD                2,000                  1,500      3.500
TOTAL    15,575                   20,030                           120,500      27,900     63,000    247,000
* Institutional strengthening is included in technical assistance and training elements of investment projects.
(1) Beninese counterpart includes funds from National Budget (NB), Road Fund (RF), Cotonou Port Authority (PAC), Benin Cargo Handling
Company (SOBEMAP), Beneficiaries (BEN)
3.7      The financing gap at the present time amounts to about CFA  franc 91 billion (30
percent for the road program), of which CFA franc 28 billion (US$56 million) are
currently in the final stages of negotiations with interested donors and CFA franc 63



- 20 -
billion remain to be found. Completion of these negotiations would ensure financing for
the rest of the paved road rehabilitation (BAD's CFA franc 3 billion for Pob&Ketou), and
the continuation of works on access and through roads in Cotonou city (FED and BAD's
CFA franc 25 billion for Godomey-Akossombo, and KfW funds for Sobebra Old Bridge).
The remaining financing gap would involve mostly paved roads (CFA franc 33 billion),
paved road periodic maintenance (CFA franc 12 billion), and completion of drainage
repairs and periodic maintenance on unpaved roads (CFA franc 5.9 billion). The FED,
which has been the main donor in these areas, has indicated its interest in financing the
paved road works, but its participation cannot be confirmed until the Lome VIII program
is finalized by the end of 1996. BAD and BOAD have expressed interest in the unpaved
road works, either for the last three or first two years of the program. If this money is
available for the first two years, IDA funds could be reallocated for third-year
expenditures, and more IDA funds could be reallocated to later years in case KfW comes
through with financing in drainage repairs, for which it has indicated interest.
3.8   Total Beninese funding would amount to about CFA franc 16 billion over the five-
year period, of which about CFA franc 3 billion would be provided through the budgets of
PAC and the Road Fund. Therefore, about CFA franc 2.5 billion a year would need to be
included in the Government's investment budget to cover remaining counterpart fund
requirements, about equal to the amount made available in 1995.
D. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
3.9   Government has agreed to include in its Public Investment Program (PIP) and
undertake only those transport sector works included in the five-year priority program.
The program may include only those investments with ERR greater than 12 percent for
new works, and works on unpaved roads whose economic justification has been
demonstrated according to the methodology agreed at appraisal and specified in the
Project Implementation Manual (details in ANNEX C). Priority will be given to periodic
maintenance works in preference to new works: should periodic maintenance not be fully
executed under a specific year, the backlog will be the top priority in the program of the
following year, and no new road improvement or upgrading works will be proposed under
the rolling program or the PIP unless adequate funding for routine and periodic road
maintenance has been demonstrated for the previous year. The five-year priority
program will be updated on an annual basis and reviewed with IDA prior to
December 31 of the preceding year. Definition of annual slices shall include all works
from earlier slices which have not been executed. Beginning in 1997, the five-year
program will include safety improvement works for paved roads as defined by CNSR and
traffic improvement works on the MTPT network in Cotonou as prepared by the new
traffic management unit.
3.10  Coordination of the priority program will be carried out by a committee including
MTPT and the Ministries of Planning and Finance (MP and MF), under MTPT
chairmanship. The committee will be responsible for (a) formulating priority investment
and maintenance programs of all subsectors, in accordance with proposals from the
entities in charge of each subsector; (b) defining yearly slices defined according to



- 21 -
availability of counterpart funds and road maintenance financing capacity; and (c) donor
coordination. MP's involvement will ensure that the program is agreed upon by all
entities involved in the road sector and that the size of the slices matches the PIP
provisions. MTPT's Programming and Coordination Unit (CPC) will act as the
committee's secretariat and will execute the administrative work of the committee,
including donor meeting scheduling, preparation and organization. The definition of the
committee's functions and its operating procedures are included in the Implementation
Manual agreed upon at negotiations.
3.11   Every two years, Government will organize a donor round table to discuss
program financing and define annual priority program slices. The first and second round
table meeting will be held prior to November 30, 1996. and between January 1 and March
30, 1998. During this round table, Government will provide donors with a comprehensive
report showing: (a) actual execution status of the investment program; (b) performance
indicators for each subsector; and (c) actual progress in the implementation of policy and
institutional measures.
E. COMPONENTS SUPPORTED BY IDA CREDIT
Component Selection
3.12  In light of the objectives of Government's overall adjustment strategy, as
supported by SAL III in the context of the CAS, the choice of priority transport
investments for IDA funding under the proposed program has focused on infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation, supporting rural production, encouraging private sector
supply response, mobilizing domestic resources through user charges, and building
institutional capacity. The choices also reflect IDA's comparative advantage in the roads
and port subsectors, and IDA's ongoing involvement in the urban sector.
3.13  IDA funds will be used only for private contracting operations and not for force
account maintenance in the proposed road component, while also supporting
improvements in overall maintenance planning. No routine maintenance would be
financed by the Credit, since Government will finance all routine maintenance through the
Road Fund. Previous difficulties with community participation in rural road works have
led to the design of a pilot in the proposed program which is demand-driven. The only
rehabilitation works are those required to bring the most important unpaved road sections
in the network up to a maintainable standard and provide for their initial regravelling. The
only paved road works financed by the Credit, which are required for traffic
improvements in Cotonou and for elimination of high accident locations on the paved
interurban network, are to be executed in line with institutional changes supported by the
ongoing Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project (Cr. 2338-BEN). Two design
changes running through all components involve (a) the switch from permanent to short-
term technical assistance; continuity is maintained by retaining proven TA staff, and (b)
revival or introduction of mechanisms for user participation in decision-making.
3.14  IDA funds would support primarily: (a) component A: port improvements, in an
amount of about CFA franc 2.6 billion out of a total of CFA franc 12 billion needed; (b)



- 22 -
component B: rehabilitation and regravelling of the most important unpaved road sections
in the network, and spot works critical to road safety on the paved network (CFA franc 9.3
billion); (c) component C: a pilot community-based feeder roads maintenance program in
the amount of CFA franc 1.4 billion; and (d) component D: support for traffic
improvement works in Cotonou (CFA franc 2.1 billion). IDA's funds under this credit
will be used as last resort financing for the highest priority expenditures. Additional funds
for the overall unpaved road works and maintenance program are to be provided by
BOAD (CFA franc 0.5 billion) and the Govenmment of Benin (Road Fund and PIP, CFA
franc 3.3 billion), leaving a financing gap of CFA franc 5.9 billion for unpaved roads.
About CFA franc 15.5 billion for feeder roads will come from KfW, BOAD, BID, FED,
CFD (CFA franc 10.2 billion), along with IDA's Credit. Institutional strengthening in the
various subsectors is included in the technical assistance and training elements of
investment projects funded by BAD, FED. CFD and ACDI. and IDA will finance around
CFA franc 4 billion for institutional strengthening in the road subsector. Should other
donors decide to finance works currently included in the proposed IDA components, IDA
may finance other works in the five-year program in priority order.
3.15  The proposed Credit will finance works, goods and services in the program for the
four components described below. Component content is summarized below, with
detailed costs given in ANNEX B, and detailed component descriptions in ANNEX C.
3.16  Port Operations and Management (US$5.7 million). The purposes of this
component are to (a) strengthen Benin's competitiveness by reducing port operation
delays; (b) improve customs duty collection and freight handling performance by
increasing operational transparency; and (c) enhance user involvement in the definition
and implementation of port management improvements. It includes the following
elements:
(a)   Civil works to rationalize use of space within the port, in particular,
creating dedicated space outside the port compound for customs inspection
of containers and for used car handling and repair, and paving of heavily
trafficked surfaces (see IBRD Map 27429);
(b)   Short-term technical assistance and training to (i) PAC for operational
improvements, including use of Portware software and training of port
operators; (ii) to MTPT top management for preparation of a port operation
and facilitation strategy and reform of user participation mechanisms; and
(iii) to port users and the Chamber of Commerce for information diffusion
and user group startup;
(c)   Short-term technical assistance and training to PAC for financial
management and cost accounting improvements, for updating of priority
port investment input to five-year priority program, and for
implementation of the civil works subcomponent, including final
engineering studies and works supervision.



- 23 -
3.17   Road Repair, Maintenance, Safety and Network Management (US$32.1
million). The purposes of this component are to (a) redress the balance between road
investment and maintenance; (b) strengthen MTPT's capacity to program and manage road
investment and maintenance; (c) improve road user cost recovery: and (d) help reduce
poverty by reducing transport costs to/from rural areas and by increasing local labor-
intensive enterprises' access to road works contracts. It includes the following elements:
(a)    Priority civil works on MTPT's road network, including elimination of all
unpaved networ-k trouble spots, involving about 1,066 km of unpaved
roads, of whlich 400 km are currently cut during the rainy season; repair of
critical bridges and drainage works on about 850 km of priority unpaved
roads: periodic maintenance (regravelling) on about 600 km of priority
unpaved roads: DROA's office buildings upgrading and road safety
improvements at frequent accident locations on the paved network (see
IBRD Map 27427):
(b)    A program of short-term assistance, training, studies and equipment for
specific key management improvements within the Ministry in the areas of
annual updating of the five-year priority program projects'financial
managemenit, transport licensing, works contract management, bridge and
drainage maintenance, heavy equipment operation, collection of data on
road operators and road conditions, road maintenance financing
management and personnel management (,total of 81 months of technical
assistance, of which 36 local, 82 training sessions, 51 months of on-the-job
training sessions. 15 vehicles. 20 computers, 15 months of study tours, and
training of 12 specific staff );
(c)    Traffic Safety Support Program including short-term assistance. training
and studies to the CNSR and to MTPT for an action plan to improve road
and vehicle safety. including equipment for processing road safety data,
procedures for defining works to eliminate high accident locations,
revisions of rules of the road, improvements in accident reporting
procedures and in procedures for enforcing vehicle weight limits and rules
of the road. and measures for user participation in accident reduction
activities (total of 29 months of technical assistance, of which 9 local, 2
computers);
(d)    Private sector support to strengthen the implementation capacity of local
civil works enterprises for greater participation in road maintenance and
spot improvement contracts, through establishment of an office to assist
small and medium-sized enterprises by a specialized NGO, training and
support programs, studies to define measures to improve the private sector
regulatory environment, and startup of a public-private equipment pool
(total of 243 months of technical assistance, of which 152 months local);



- 24 -
(e)   Overall program management. including studies required for annual
updating of the five-year priority program. annual works audits, final
engineering, preparation of bidding documents, and works supervision.
3.18  Rural Road Rehabilitation and Management (US$3.1 million). The purpose of
this component is to: (a) help alleviate rural poverty by reducing transport costs to/from
rural areas and improving road links to motivated communities; and (b) develop a national
rural road rehabilitation and maintenance strategy which would transfer rural road
management to local committees. It includes the following elements:
(a)   Civil works to rehabilitate a total of 300 km of rural roads in close
collaboration with motivated local communities in Cobly, Adjohoun,
Banikoara villages and three other areas, as a pilot for defining
Government's rural road strategy:
(b)   Introduction of a pilot, locally operated rural road maintenance program, to
be developed jointly by DROA and the local committees, including
assistance to DROA for developing and implementing new procedures for
programming, management and finance of rural road maintenance, and to
local and international NGOs who would assist local committees in setting
up the local organizations required for public education, collection of
funds, and mobilization of volunteer road maintenance crews (total of 306
months of TA. of which 149 local);
3.19   Urban Road Improvements and Traffic Management (US$4.3 million). The
purpose of this component is to improve traffic safety and transport conditions on the
primary road network in Cotonou through efficient traffic management. It includes the
following elements:
(a)   A program of road works required to improve road safety and traffic
conditions in the city of Cotonou, including elimination of high accident
and heavily congested intersections on main roads, 11 km of separate lanes
for two-wheeled vehicles on the most heavily traveled itinerary, and
renovation of the three main bus/truck stations plus creation of a
management mechanism for such stations (see IBRD Map 27428);
(b)   Equipment and vehicles required for the newly established Traffic
Management Unit within the municipality of Cotonou, short-term technical
assistance and training, studies for Cotonou's first traffic management
plan, studies for a first bus/truck station management plan and its
implementation, and definition and implementation of a mechanism for
urban user participation in traffic plan preparation and traffic safety
measures, through a local NGO.
3.20  Technical Assistance in All Components. In contrast to previous IDA projects,
the IDA-financed program components under this Credit support no full-time technical
assistance. Instead, terms of reference have been defined for specific tasks to be carried



- 25 -
out during short-term assignments, and local consultancies have been specified wherever
feasible. While all of port component technical assistance is external (30 months), 45
months out of 125 months of expertise required for the road component will be hired
locally, as will 144 of 240 months of NGO assistance for the rural road component, 7 of
67 months of rural road specialists, and 50 of 60 months of traffic plan experts in the
urban component (286 local out of 492 months total). All training in all components will
be carried out locally, except for study tours for maintenance programming training (see
tables in ANNEX C).
F. COST AND LOCAL FINANCING OF IDA COMPONENTS
Component Costs
3.21   Total cost of IDA-financed components of the program is estimated at
US$45.2 million (CFA franc 22.6 billion) together with Beninese counterpart funding, net
of taxes and duties but including physical and price contingencies. Base costs are in April
1995 prices, as determined by the appraisal mission on the basis of recent civil works
contracts. IDA financed components would be executed over a four-year period (March
1997 through December 2001). Price contingencies have been based on the following
annual inflation rates:
Table 3.3: Annual Inflation Rates
(percent)
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Foreign Exchange         2.6    2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5
Local CurTencv           3       3       3        3        3
Table 3.4: Estimated Costs of IDA Financed Components
(US$million)
IDA Component       Local   Foreign   Subtotal Net of   Percent of
Taxes      Base Cost
Port Operation               2.4       2.4          4.8      13
Road Maintenance             12.6     14.7          27.3     71
Rural Roads                  1.1       1.5          2.6       7
tJrban Roads                 1.8       1.9          3.7       9
TOTAL BASE COST             17.9      20.5          38.4     100
Contingencies
Physical                  1.7        1.6          3.3
Price                      1.9       ].6          3.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST          21.5      23.7          45.2
3.22   The proposed IDA Credit of US$40 million will finance 88 percent of the cost of
these components of the program net of taxes and duties. This will cover approximately
US$24 million of foreign costs (100 percent) and US$16 million of local costs (74
percent). Detailed IDA component financing is given in ANNEX B and is summarized in
the table below. The local counterpart share of US$5.2 million will be financed as
follows: (a) US$4.5 million by Government-- US$2.3 million from national budget and
US$2.2 million from Road Fund-- for periodic unpaved road maintenance repair of



- 26 -
trouble spots, works and bridges on unpaved roads, buildings and equipment, and urban
road works; (b) US$0.6 million by beneficiaries, including US$0.3 million by small and
medium enterprises benefiting from the training and support operation (100 percent of the
operating cost of the support unit, 50 percent of the cost of staff training and 100 percent
of support by local expert), and US$0.3 million by local partners representing financing of
works on rural road during the IDA Credit period; and (c) US$0.1 million by the
Circonscription Urbaine (CU) under the Urban Road Component for operating costs of
the Traffic Management Unit, which could come from parking and station fees, and
US$0.4 million by PAC. Local counterpart funds provided from budget will be made
available through project accounts opened by MTPT (DROA) and AGETUR. First
deposit in these accounts is a condition of first disbursement under components B, C
and D. The project accounts will be replenished quarterly by the National Treasure.
Table 3.5: Financing Arrangements for IDA financed Components
(US$'000s)
Component             GOB    IDA   Ben-efi  City of   PAC   TOTAL
ciaries  Cotonou
A. Port operation and Management  -     5,295    -       -       410      5,705
B. Road repair, maintenance, safety  3,966  27,818   316          -     32,101
and network management
C. Rural road rehabilitation and  204   2,880   323*    -         -       3,083
management
D. Urban Road Improvement and     324  4,007    -       96*       -      4,331
traffic management
TOTAL PROJECT COST    4,494  40,000   316                410    45,220
323*    96*
Total including*    4,494  40,000   639  96      410    45,639
*Figures are not included in the project cost but financing is a an upfront condition.
G. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
Program Implementation Manual
3.23   Detailed project implementation procedures are recorded in a Program
Implementation Manual or PIM, organized in chapters by component. PIM contents are
detailed in ANNEX C and include detailed procurement arrangements, standard bidding
documents, key performance indicators, quarterly reporting formats, detailed IDA
supervision program, detailed procedures for ex-post supervision of road works,
environmental guidelines for road works, economic justification methodology, and copies
of official documents such as AGETUR's contract with MTPT and the Finance Ministry's
delegation of contract authority for road works to MTPT. The final PIM wchich has
been agreed upon before negotiations will be adopted by the Government prior to credit



- 27 -
effectiveness. It will be updated if necessary during program implementation with IDA
concurrence. Programn implementation, arrangements and Credit and program
coordination, are summarized below (details in ANNEX C).
IDA Credit Coordination
3.24  An IDA Credit Coordinator, under the responsibility of Chief of staff (directeur du
cabinet), will coordinate project implementation, including (i) overall coordination of the
IDA components; (ii) liaison with the Programming and Coordination Unit which
manages the program as a whole; and (iii) management of expenditures under the IDA
Credit, including Credit allocation on the basis of the data processed by DROA, PAC and
AGETUR. Before negotiation, MTPT nominated an accountant acceptable to IDA who
will work under the credit coordinator's authority. DROA, PAC and AGETUR would
carry out program preparation, commitments monitoring, expenditure accounting, and
withdrawal application supervision for their respective components. This documentation
would then be transmitted to the Credit Coordinator who would consolidate the
commitments and expenditures accounts for the overall Credit, monitor the Credit
allocation, and be responsible for the execution of the annual audit. By or just after
project effectiveness the accountants in each execution agency and at the credit
coordination level will have training on IDA's credit management.
3.25  The borrower will carry out no later than 30 month after effectiveness, jointly with
the Association and other donors, a mid-term review of the progress made in the carrying
out of the Project. The review will cover: (a) the implementation of measures designed to
strengthen the financial reporting, monitoring, accounting and auditing capabilities of the
different agencies of the Borrower involved in the implementation of the Program; (b) the
overall progress made in the Program and Credit implementation; (c) the performance of
PAC, AGETUR and MTPT as executing agencies for their respective parts of the IDA
financed components; (d) the adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding as well as
the level of budgetary allocations and actual expenditure for routine maintenance; (e) the
working of the Road Fund; and (f) the need for redesign and restructuring of Program
components experiencing implementation difficulties. Not later than one month prior to
such mid-tern review, the Borrower will furnish to the Association a report, for its review
and comnments on the above topics, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in
complying with Program implementation, and recommendations resulting from the
studies conducted under the Program.
Port Component of Cotonou Operations and Maintenance Implementation
3.26  The port component would be implemented by PAC. IDA Credit funds for port
infrastructure works and PAC support will be made available to PAC by the Governmnent
under an agreement which will be signed prior to Credit effectiveness. Two thirds of the
amount will be onlent at commercial loan terrns (7.1 percent) and the remaining made
available to PAC as an equity contribution. Delegation of authority for procurement for
works, consultant services and training to PAC will be part of the agreement. Since PAC
has demonstrated its capacity to manage contracts under the recently completed Transport



- 28 -
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr. 1807-BEN), it could carry out
procurement for MTPT and other entities involved in the port component. PAC will hire
consultants for engineering studies, works supervision, and studies to be financed under
the program. PAC's training program, focused on port operations and financial
management, and agreed with IDA during appraisal, will be updated each year, according
to the results of training to date and in light of operational priorities.
3.27  Before negotiations, Government transmitted to IDA, all legislation, decrees, and
regulations required to (a) reinforce PAC's authority in the management of port
operations; (b) end SOBEMAP's monopoly of container handling by opening the market
to one or more private companies; and (c) revise licensing regulations for private port
operators to bring them under PAC's jurisdiction. Prior to October 31 of each year of
program implementation, PAC will prepare and transmit to IDA for its review, the five-
year priority program, prior to its inclusion in the overall five-year transport program,
along with five-year financial projections for PAC. PAC has agreed to include in its
submission, only those investments (a) required to improve port infrastructure whose
economic return is greater than 12 percent, and (b) for which PAC's ability to undertake
such investments is demonstrated by financial projections based on principles and formats
agreed at appraisal.
Road Repairs, Maintenance, Safety and Network Management Component
Implementation
3.28  The road component will be carried out by MTPT through DROA. To improve its
efficiency DROA will be reorganized and strengthened (ANNEX B3 of the PIM). Prior
to effectiveness, the Borrower shall take initial steps agreed upon for the reorganization of
DROA and shall pursue the implementation of this reorganization during the Program
execution. The Finance Ministry will delegate to MTPT, authority for issuing calls for
bids, awarding contracts, and managing contracts for (a) routine, periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation works on the upaved network, whether financed by the Road Fund or by the
Credit; (b) DROA's buildings upgrading; and (c) elimination of trouble spots and unpaved
road rehabilitation. DROA will hire consultants to carry out engineering studies and
works supervision financed by the Credit, and consultants recruited for works supervision
should participate in the finalization of bidding documents for these works, and in the
analysis of bids. Engineering studies will include an environmental assessment of the
impact of works, following the environmental guidelines to be agreed on at negotiations.
Final engineering studies and bidding documents for the first slice of works and technical
assistance are being prepared and are expected to be finalized by Credit effectiveness.
3.29  Prior to negotiations, Government transmitted to IDA: (a) draft revised
statutes for the Road Fund; (b) draft contracts for toll collection subcontracting; (c) an
action plan for restructuring of Road Fund staff; and (d) evidence of the start of staff
restructuring implementation. New statutes for the Road Fund, road toll contracts with
private firms, and signature of single-man contracts with the 347 surplus road maintenance
staff are measures required to ensure Government's undertaking to provide sufficient
funds for routine road maintenance. Government agreed to these measures at appraisal,



- 29 -
and to the provision of CFA franc 1.5 billion in 1996, increasing to CFA franc 2.635
billion in 1998, for routine road maintenance of MTPT's paved and unpaved network.
3.30  Government further agreed at appraisal to transmit to IDA, minutes of the first
meeting of the Road Fund's new board of directors, and copies of the new contracts of the
347 road maintenance staff, as a condition of Credit effectiveness. Prior to October 31
of each year of program implementation, MTPT will prepare and transmit to IDA for
review, its submission for the five-year priority program, prior to its inclusion in the
overall five-year transport program, including road maintenance programming and
budgeting. The 1997-2001 priority program was reviewed during negotiations.
Government will not undertake any new works financed by the Credit unless it submits to
IDA evidence of actual availability of budgeted funds and actual performance of routine
maintenance works during each year, and payment of counterpart funds for prior contracts
financed by the Credit. Government has agreed to deposit in the Road Fund on a quarterly
basis, no later than three months after they have been collected, fuel taxes and road taxes
collected on its behalf. Should the Road Fund not be able to mobilize sufficient funds to
finance road maintenance at the agreed level. Government will increase its allocation to
the Road Fund to make up the difference. With respect to the counterpart funds, the
Borrower shall open a Road Funds Project Account, will make first deposits and will
replenish them thereafter. Prior to June 30 of each year, Government will provide IDA
with audit reports of Road Fund accounts, performed by an independent external auditor
and based on terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Contracts for upgrading of DROA
offices and equipment purchase included in this component will not be signed by
Government before IDA receives the decree and the actual assignment of staff involved in
the DROA reorganization, as outlined in the Program Implementation Manual.
3.31   The Private Sector Support Program will be implemented by DROA through a
contract with a specialized NGO, covering all elements of the program. Annual training
and support programs will be defined on an annual basis in close collaboration with
beneficiaries, and forwarded to IDA for approval before October 31 of the preceding
year. Program beneficiaries will contribute to program operating and staff training costs
at a level which should cover at least the unit's operating costs, net of expatriate staff. The
Traffic Safety Support Program will be prepared and its implementation managed by
DROA in close coordination with CNSR. CNSR will analyze bids for studies and
technical assistance, and CNSR's representatives will be members of the bid award
committee. Final terms of reference for studies, technical assistance and training are being
prepared and are expected to be finalized by project effectiveness.
Rural Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component Implementation
3.32 Rural road maintenance works will be implemented by MTPT through DROA,
under the same conditions as the road component with respect to programming and
contract administration, including use of the same standard bidding documents. A
detailed definition of the operation of the National Technical Council for Rural Roads
(CTN), which will be responsible for supervising the execution of the pilot maintenance
and rehabilitation operations, and defining a national strategy for rural roads to be applied



- 30 -
in future is a condition of initial disbursement for this component. IDA's agreement on
the rehabilitation work program for each rural community selected will require adherence
to agreed selection principles. It will be conditioned on receipt by IDA of the consultant's
monitoring and evaluation report, indicating that local partners have actually carried out or
caused to be carried out, initial site preparation for rehabilitation works and manual
routine maintenance works for which they are responsible, representing their counterpart
contribution.
3.33  Works programming and phasing will be carried out in close collaboration with
local communities responsible for individual road sections with the help of a specialized
NGO. Works will be restricted to rehabilitation or maintenance of only those roads or
tracks on the approved list. Work programming will be carried out by local communities
and final program will be agreed upon by CTN which will include local community
partners. No rehabilitation or maintenance works will be carried out with IDA financing
until arrangements required for financing and carrying out maintenance have been drawn
up and finalized through written agreement with the communities involved.
Urban Roads Improvement and Traffic Management Component Implementation
3.34 The Urban Traffic Component will be implemented by DROA, using the same
standard bidding documents as for the road component. The urban works agency,
AGETUR, will be hired for procurement and supervision of studies and works within its
domain of competence, under a subcontracting agreement (contrat de maitrise d'ouvrage
dgleguj). Such works would in principle include all works in this component except
works involving asphalt paving. IDA credit funds for urban works, to be carried out by
AGETUR, will be made available to AGETUR by the Government under an agreement
which will be signed prior to Credit effectiveness. AGETUR executing fees would be
financed by the Credit, up to 4.5 percent of the cost of engineering studies and works
carried out under the subcontracting agreement. The Borrower shall open a AGETUR
Project Account, will make the first counterpart deposits and replenish them quarterly
thereafter. Bidding procedures and contract award would follow AGETUR's rules, and
would be subject to the same ex-post review by the Finance Ministry as under the ongoing
Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project financed by IDA (Cr. 2338-BEN). DROA
and AGETUR will hire consultants to carry out engineering studies and works supervision
(about 30 percent by DROA, 70 percent by AGETUR; see para. 3.38).
3.35  The establishment of the Traffic Management Unit within the Municipality of
Cotonou and hiring of competent staff for it, which had previously been envisaged as a
condition of Credit effectiveness, actually occurred in January 1996. The Technical
Steering Committee for traffic management will be enlarged to include representatives of
users by December 1996 and the traffic management plan will be completed by March 31,
1997. Adherence to agreed works selection procedures and finalization of the traffic
management plan are conditions of IDA's financing of the works program to be
financed under this component.



- 31 -
H. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Procurement
3.36   Table 3-6 below presents a summary of expected procurement by category of
expenditure. Detailed features of procurement arrangements are provided in ANNEXES
B and C. Unless otherwise indicated below, procurement arrangements for the items
financed by the Credit are as follows: (a) all equipment and civil works contracts will be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding (ICB or NCB for works and ICB, NCB and
International Shopping for Goods) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines; (b) all civil
works construction will be supervised by consultants acceptable to IDA under agreed
terms of reference; (c) consultants and experts for technical assistance will be recruited in
accordance with provisions stated below; (d) procurement decisions for civil works and
goods in excess of US$200,000 equivalent, for consulting services with firms in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent, and for consulting services with individual or training activities
in excess of US$50,000 (covering over 80 percent of all procurement) will be subject to
prior approval by IDA; and (e) post-review procedures will be applied for contracts under
the above thresholds. Contracts and services financed by other financing agencies will
follow the rules of the respective agencies. Contracts for civil works which are unlikely to
attract international competition will be awarded on the basis of procedures for locally
advertised competitive bidding (NCB), according to procedures which have been
reviewed and are acceptable to IDA.
Table 3.6: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000s, net of taxes)
PROJECT ELEMENT                 ICB      NCB    OTHER N.B.F.   TOTAL
I Civil Works                              20.731    12,452      0      0      33,183
(IDA)                               (17.679)  (10,744)      0     0     (28,423)
2 Equipment                                  719       139      102     0        960
(IDA)                                 (611)    (118)      (87)    0        (816)
3 Consultancies, NGOs, TA, Studies & Training  0        0    10.986     0      10,986
(IDA)                                    0        0   (10,670)    0     (10,670)
4 Operating & Maintenance Costs                0         0       91     0         91
(IDA)                                    0        0       (91)    0        (91)
TOTALCOST                                21.450    12,591    11.179   0      45,220
(IDA)                               (18,290)  (10.862)  (10,848)    0   (40,000)



- 32 -
3.37  The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used. Bank standard bidding
documents and standard bid evaluation reports for goods and civil works under ICB, civil
works under NCB which could interest local SMEs, and consultant services, and
processing time for key procurement activities were agreed at negotiations. Government
also agreed to submit to IDA for review, draft legal texts for procurement arrangements,
especially for bid evaluation, responsibility for processing in a timely manner, and delega-
tion of contract award to DROA or AGETUR for works related to road maintenance, spot
improvement works and improvement of traffic condition within Cotonou.
3.38  Civil Works. All contracts for civil works in excess of US$500,000 equivalent
will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Contracts for civil works under US$500,000 equiva-
lent but not exceeding US$13 million in aggregate may be awarded on the basis of NCB,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. International enterprises are best
qualified to execute major improvement works on unpaved roads or bridges, and works on
paved roads under the road component, local contractors are not yet qualified to do such
works, even minor works on paved roads. On the other hand, international firms are not
interested in minor works at dispersed locations on the unpaved network or at the port site,
nor in minor scattered improvements on the urban network, works well suited to local
contractors' abilities. Therefore, 63 percent of the works is expected to be awarded under
ICB and 37 percent on the basis of NCB. Foreign firms, if interested, will not be excluded
from participation in NCB.
3.39  Consultancies. All consultancies financed by IDA will be contracted in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
Services for promotion and support of SMEs, for representation of users under the urban
roads component, and for assistance to local communities under the rural roads
component would be executed by experienced NGOs. During negotiations, Government
confirmed that consultants responsible for works supervision will also be responsible for
design and updating of bidding documents, and will actively participate in bid evaluation.
Contracting and supervision of 70 percent of works and consultant services under the
traffic improvement subcomponent will be executed by AGETUR, 30 percent by DROA.
AGETUR operating expenditures for this task will be paid under annual contract
agreements to be signed between MTPT and AGETUR; annual contract amounts will be
estimated on the basis of actual expenditures submitted for IDA approval. Payment
against these contracts will be made as the works are implemented. NGOs will be hired
after careful selection following a consultation made on the same basis as for consultant
services.
3.40 Goods for DROA, DFR (Directorate of Road Fund), CNSR and the Traffic
Management Unit will be procured under ICB procedures. The exceptions to ICB
procurement will be for goods contracts estimated to cost less than or equal to US$50,000
equivalent each, which in aggregate will not exceed US$240,000. For these contracts,
goods could be procured under NCB or National Shopping. National Shopping will be
limited to contracts estimated to cost less than US$20,000 each, which in aggregate will
not exceed US$ 100,000.



- 33 -
Disbursement
3.41   The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 2001 and the Credit
closing date will be December 31, 2001. The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule
for IDA Credit and the detailed disbursement schedule. Credit categories and disburse-
ment percentages are shown in ANNEX B. The disbursement forecasts take into account
the advanced stage of procurement preparation which will allow a quick start of the
project. The Credit will be disbursed as follows:
Table 3.7: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category                 Amount of credit   % of Expenditure
(UISS'000)   to be financed by
IDA
I Civil Works
(a) PAC Component A                             3.336             90%
(b) DROA other Component B & DROA Component D   18.932            85%
(c) DROA Component C                             1.665            90%
(d) AGETUR Component D                           1.749            90%
2 DROA Vehicles, Equipment for Component B & D      816             85%
3 Consultant/NGOsITA/'raining and Studies
(a) PAC Component A                              1.531           100%
(b) DROA - SMEs of Component B                   1,470            85%
(c) DROA other Component B. Component C & DROA   5.889           100%
Component D
(d) AGETUR Component D                            907            100%
4 AGETUR - Operating Cost Component D                89            100%
5 Refunding of PPF"                                 500
6 Unallocated                                     3.115
TOTAL           40,000
2 PPF advanced to carry out studies under Category 3
3.42   Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement and reduce the volume of
withdrawal applications, Special Accounts, will be opened in CFA franc for DROA, PAC
and AGETUR at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocations
amount to US$1,000,000 equivalent (DROA), US$250,000 equivalent (PAC) and
US$150,000 equivalent (AGETUR). The amounts are estimated to cover about four
months of expenditures. The Special Account opened by AGETUR would finance
expenditures under Categories 1(d), 3(d) and 4. The Special Account opened by DROA
would finance expenditures under Categories I (b), (c), 2, 3 (b) and (c). The Special
Account opened by PAC would finance expenditures under Categories 1(a) and 3(a). The
Special Accounts will be opened prior to any disbursement. Upon effectiveness of the
Credit, an amount of US$500,000 equivalent (DROA), US$125,000 (PAC) and
US$75,000 (AGETUR), representing 50 percent of the authorized allocations, will be
deposited in the Special Accounts. The remaining balance will be made available when



- 34 -
needed. The Special Accounts will be used for all payments representing less than 20
percent of the authorized allocations. Replenishments would be submitted monthly and
include bank statement and reconciliation statement.
3.43  All replenishment requests would be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of
less than US$200,000 equivalent for civil works and equipment; (b) contract of less than
US$ 100,000 for consulting services by firms; (c) contracts of less than US$50,000 for
consulting services by individuals; (d) training, studies and operating expenses (SOEs)
which may be claimed on the basics of statements of expenditures. All supporting
documents for SOEs will be retained by DROA, PAC and AGETUR for review by
periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
I. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
3.44  The accounting for Credit expenditures and Special Accounts transactions
including statements of expenditures would be maintained by DROA, AGETUR and PAC
for their respective components. All expenditures under the Credit will be recorded and
consolidated by the Credit Coordinator, who will countersign all withdrawal applications.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that DROA, AGETUR and PAC have
Credit accounts, Special Accounts and statement of expenditures audited annually by
qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Auditors missions will include the
detailed audits of Credit accounts and SOEs with an opinion, the audit of the Special
Accounts with a separate opinion and a management letter which includes the analysis of
the internal control and accounting procedures along with recommendations to
management. Auditors' reports will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after
the close of their fiscal/financial year. In addition to Credit audit reports, AGETUR and
PAC will also furnish to IDA, not later than six months after the end of their
fiscal/financial year, separate audit reports on their component and on their operations.
Selection of the project auditors to IDA's satisfaction is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.45  DROA, AGETUR and PAC will each prepare quarterly progress reports covering
all subcomponents within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will
include: (i) progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursements
schedules; (ii) key performance indicators; and (iii) work programs and cost estimates for
the coming quarter and for the total program. Performance indicators are listed in
ANNEX B. These reports will be consolidated by the Credit Coordinator into a single
quarterly report which will be submitted to IDA. The main purpose of the reports will be
to provide timely and updated information on the implementation of the components,
highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending actions and commenting on
progress in resolving previous reconmmendations. DROA, AGETUR and PAC will
prepare a completion report within six months of the final disbursement in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Reporting formats and requirements, and key performance
indicators were agreed with DROA, AGETUR and PAC during negotiations.
Agreement was obtained during negotiations that DROA, AGETUR and PAC submit to
IDA, copies of all consultants' reports and studies financed under the proposed program.



- 35 -
J. SUPERVISION PLAN
3.46  Agreement was obtained during negotiations that MTPT hold a launch workshop
as soon as the Credit is effective, and that there is a mid-term review by IDA two years
from the date of Credit effectiveness (i.e. around April 1998), during which the status of
the entire program will be reviewed in detail. During that mid-term review, particular
attention will be paid to: (i) compliance with covenants, particularly the financial and audit
covenants; (ii) progress in implementing program components; the implementation of
PAC's financial priority plan with respect to debt service and accounts receivable; the
road subcomponents and institutional strengthening results and variance from the
appraisal estimates; (iii) status of the road network maintenance funding through the road
fund; and (iv) status of the preparation of the national rural road strategy based on the
results of the IDA-supported pilot operations. The review will be jointly carried out by
IDA, Government, DROA, the Road Fund and PAC with the participation of other donors
involved in the sector. Corrective measures may be proposed as a result of this review
including necessary modifications in the scope of the proposed program and in the
Implementation Manual which could be gradually applied to all projects financed by
external donors.
3.47  The proposed supervision program for IDA components and key performance
indicators for monitoring their progress were designed during appraisal and have been
confirmed during negotiations. The two first years will require 22 staff weeks of
supervision, and the following years 20 staff weeks per year. A table showing proposed
mission activities and staffing, and a list of performance indicators are provided in
ANNEX B. Routine supervision by IDA should normally include an engineer
experienced in road maintenance and periodically a procurement specialist. Full-scale
missions should include a financial analyst, a training specialist, an urban transport
specialist and a port specialist.
3.48   Supervision will be carried out in close collaboration with IDA's Country
Operations Department in order to ensure that the road investment and maintenance
program is consistent with macroeconomic conditions. Particular attention will be paid to
Road Fund operations during supervision. Preparation of the priority program with its
annual slices will require special supervision, with participation by transport economists.
IDA's annual review of the priority program will require expertise in economic analysis
and in road maintenance and construction standards. IDA will play a major role in donor
coordination during the annual donors' meetings, where these programs will be revised
and updated. The meetings will take place during IDA supervision missions.
Involvement of a number of small enterprises in civil works execution is another activity
requiring close supervision and special attention.



- 36 -
4. BENEFITS, IMPACTS AND RISKS
A. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.1   Project Benefits. All port and road improvements will reduce transport time and
cost through less vehicle operating costs, and encourage trade and agricultural production.
In the port, improvements in productivity yield shipper savings in road transport, incurred
when port congestion in Cotonou diverts traffic to Lome, and physical improvements in the
port will yield cost savings to forklift and other cargo-handling vehicles. On national, rural
and urban roads, improved road surfaces yield vehicle operating cost savings. Other non-
quantified benefits are expected to flow from IDA-supported activities which improve
management and planning. Effective use of the five-year priority program as an investment
tool should result in higher rates of return on transport sector investment as a whole.
Development of a community-based, demand-driven rural roads rehabilitation and
maintenance strategy will likewise lead to more effective resource use. Better contract
management and better planning based on better road data will mean more roads can be
maintained with the same budget. Safety and traffic management activities will reduce the
cost of traffic accidents, in terms of human life and productivity and damage to vehicles.
Economic analyses for individual IDA components are summarized below, with details
provided in ANNEX E.
4.2   Port Operations. There are three types of benefits expected from investment in
civil works and operational improvements in the port: (i) reductions in cost of trucking
goods off-loaded in Lome when Cotonou's port is congested, and then trucked back to
Cotonou for delivery in Benin or Niger; (ii) cost savings to forklift and other cargo-handling
vehicles, through dockside paving and through reduction of congestion by creating
dedicated space outside the port compound for container inspection and used car activities;
(iii) reductions in income losses to PAC, SOBEMAP and private operators who lose
business when port traffic is diverted to Lome. Diversion of traffic to Lome occurs when
dock occupancy rates exceed 70 percent (saturation point), expected to occur in 1998, if
there is no improvement in productivity, or in 2001 with IDA-supported improvements.
The total of benefits from these three types of cost savings in a single year is estimated at
CFA franc 2,193 million, of the same order of magnitude as the cost of all IDA-financed
port improvements (CFA franc 2,041 million). The ERR is estimated at 250 percent and
the NPV is about US$7 million using a discount rate of 12 percent.
4.3   Road Repair and Maintenance. Given that the four IDA components are but a
portion of a larger priority program, and in order to assist in the definition of this program
and to permit rational selection of investments for IDA and other donor financing from it,
the economic analysis carried out during preparation covered all road investments proposed
for Government's five-year priority program. This analysis included section-by-section
review of proposed trouble spot repairs and bridges and drainage works to take into
account, works recently carried out in the Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation and



- 37 -
Maintenance Project (Cr. 1807-BEN), and identification of optimal maintenance strategies
for paved and unpaved roads, in terms of maximizing the number of practicable itineraries
(minimization of present value of net maintenance costs). ERRs were also calculated for
the resulting maintenance cost flows. Cost stream-s included the cost of eliminating trouble
spots and bridge and drainage works, both required to bring key network sections up to a
service level where maintenance is possible, in addition to maintenance costs. Benefits are
taken to be savings in vehicle operating costs due to improved road surfaces, with fuel
shadow priced at CFA franc 140 a liter; time savings are not taken into account. The base
case is defined as continuation of the lowest service level, or deterioration to the lowest
service level, at which vehicles can still actually use the road. This is the only way to
generate a baseline level of vehicle operating costs to compare with the with-investment
case, although in actual fact, in a do-nothing case with no road maintenance, roads cease to
be practicable and traffic would virtually cease. Not even minimal maintenance costs are
included in the base case, because in their present state, the roads are not maintainable
without the repairs of trouble spots and bridges, and the road standards in the with-
investment case are already set at a minimum level.
4.4    The ERRs for works on the 61 sections of unpaved roads included for financing
under the proposed IDA Credit range from 300 percent to six percent, depending on the
section. Six of the 61 sections show ERR below 12 percent. Since these are itineraries
lacking any possible detour in case of impassibility, they will be retained in the priority
program; engineering studies will review the possibility of lowering technical standards on
these sections. The weighted average of the ERR for all unpaved road investments taken
together is 103 percent, and the NPV is estimated at US$85 million. While it is not possible
to quantify the benefits of the other activities financed under this component-- road safety
improvements and short-termn assistance, training and studies for management
improvements, strengthening of SMEs, building renovations, and overall IDA Credit
management-- these activities will certainly generate benefits by lowering traffic accident
rates, improving the efficiency of resource use, and boosting competition in the private
construction sector.
4.5    Rural Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance. There is no reliable or accurate
way to estimate future income benefits to pilot area rural residents from additional
agricultural production expected to be induced by better rural road conditions. Farmers can
be expected to make rational choices of itineraries to propose for rehabilitation and
maintenance, based on their own assessment of benefits likely to accrue to them. The
component has been designed, in fact, precisely so as to apply selection criteria for
screening programs eligible for Governm-ent participation, which takes into account user
savings, increased agricultural production, and social and poverty impacts. Should it not be
possible to calculate an ERR, other simple criteria will be used, such as population density
or agricultural production per km of road to be included. Taking a broader view, however,
this component represents the minimum investment required for Government to design a
workable rural roads strategy, needed to replace the unsuccessful and uneconomic
approaches of the past, which have re,.ulted in costly repeated rehabilitation of
unmaintained rural roads. The requirement of commnunity contribution to program costs,



- 38 -
sufficient to ensure routine maintenance of included itineraries, has been adopted as a
means to exclude economically unjustified investments from being financed under this pilot
program.
4.6   Urban Road Repair and Traffic Management. Vehicle operating cost savings
from improved traffic circulation due to both civil works and start-up of a traffic
management unit are expected to be substantial in Cotonou. given the high volumes of
traffic and the expected reductions in travel time. On the 11 km trip between Godomey and
Sobebra intersections (see IBRD Map 27428), the current conflict between four-wheeled
and two-wheeled vehicles and intersection bottlenecks have reduced speeds to around 20
km/hr, compared to a norm of 40 km/hr. creating delays of around 22 minutes, or 50
percent of a more normal trip time. Peak traffic volumes on this trip are in the 40,000 -
80,000 veh/hour range, of which about 70 percent are two-wheelers. Substantial
improvements on this major itinerary will result from the implementation of the traffic plan,
following which traffic improvement works such as modal separation, intersection
reconfiguration and signaling, and parking improvements would be financed. Proposed
works would be required to demonstrate an ERR of at least 12 percent to qualify for
financing under this component.
B. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
4.7   Benefits from User Participation in Decision-Making. The adoption of a
participatory approach in the preparation of the transport sector strategy during 1992-94 was
a fundamental departure from previous decision-making traditions, and it succeeded in
changing participants' expectations of their roles. This has begun to raise expectations
among a wider circle of participants, and it is to this end that the IDA Credit supports
activities to revive user participation mechanisms in port operations and to develop new
ones for main road and rural road maintenance. These activities will continue during the
five-year Credit period to make transport agencies increasingly accountable to stakeholders.
4.8   Benefits to Women. The reconnecting of agricultural areas to the main road
networks will encourage development of trade activities in which women are particularly
active. Improvement of bus/truck station environments and management in the urban roads
component will also benefit women, who are the main users of these facilities.
4.9   Environmental Protection. Benin has already begun to implement its
Environmental Action Plan or (EAP), which provides a diagnosis, an environmental
strategy and an action plan. The EAP was approved by the Ministers' Council on June 16,
1993, and an Environmental Council was created and a Director appointed in 1994. The
main problems highlighted in the EAP are the reduction of plant cover, the spread of all
forns of erosion, a general reduction in water quality, and uncontrolled urban growth. In
both urban and rural areas, a lack of infrastructure, poor infrastructure management, and
poverty are factors which encourage environmental deterioration. The proposed Credit
therefore indirectly supports the EAP by increasing road infrastructure capacity, improving
road maintenance programmning, financing and execution, and improving road safety.



- 39 -
4.10  More directly, the Credit also supports the EAP by providing for development of
criteria for a transport environmental action plan and environmental guidelines (see
ANNEX D). The objective is not only to mitigate, through better maintenance and design,
the negative impacts of road construction and maintenance activities, such as soil erosion
and flooding, but also to promote environmental protection. Transport works financed by
this Credit will contribute to sustainable trends in enviromnental improvement, by
improving water management and using road infrastructure, in particular drainage
structures, as a vehicle for improving drainage and reducing erosion.
C. POVERTY ASPECTS
4.11   Transport and Poverty. Two of the factors underlying the high rate of poverty in
Benin could be substantially alleviated through transport sector measures: difficulty of
access to potentially productive rural areas, and the high rate of unemployment.
Rehabilitation and improvement of rural roads do not in themselves guarantee the
development of agricultural activities, but competitive agricultural production cannot occur
without reliable roads which are kept in fair condition. In urban areas, especially Cotonou,
unemployment has, until recently, been a major problem, due to a lack of job opportunities
in the modem sector and to the restructuring of the public sector during the early years of
structural adjustment.
4.12   Poverty Alleviation. To support the country's poverty alleviation objectives, the
transport strategy aims to: (a) reduce the cost of transport overall; (b) improve access to
isolated areas in particular; and (c) support operations which create job opportunities in both
formal and informal sectors. The proposed Credit supports improvements to rural roads
based on producers' and traders' priorities which are expected to increase access to inputs
and markets, thereby increasing income potential. In particular, reducing seasonal
variability in access can mitigate the factors underlying seasonal poverty in rural areas, and
increasing reliability of access reduces the vulnerability of the rural population as a whole.
The proposed Credit, following the successful example of the ongoing Urban Rehabilitation
and Management Project, favors the use of labor-intensive civil works design using low-
skilled employment for rural road works and works to be carried out in the city of Cotonou.
The Credit also provides direct support to develop the capacity of SMEs in carrying out
public sector road maintenance contracts. In its employment-creating aspects, the proposed
Credit provides parallel support of Government's unemployment reduction program,
launched recently in the context of a comprehensive poverty alleviation strategy, and is
consistent with private sector development measures receiving-IDA support under SAL III.
D. PROGRAM RISKS
4.13  Given that the program has been designed to build on existing positive initiatives
and achievements in the sector, risks relating to the IDA components are limited to new and
innovative activities supported by the IDA Credit. These are: (a) inadequate replenishment
of Road Fund; (b) slow restructuring of DROA; (c) uncertainty about involvement of local



- 40 -
communities and NGOs in rural road maintenance; and (d) weak adherence of some parties
to the priority program. The first risk involves being able to collect adequate resources for
road maintenance; the diversification of funding sources and the fact that authority for direct
collection of funds is given to Road Fund staff, along with the gradual reduction of general
budget support, are intended to minimize the likelihood of this risk. Also, the
diversification of funding sources will focus on road tolls, a financing source of proven
practicality and high yields in Benin.
4.14 Concerning the second risk, DROA has led the design of the reorganization process
with the support of outside consultants, and therefore the elements of this restructuring have
already been accepted and assimilated by DROA staff. The restructuring process was
begun from within in 1991 and there has been constant improvement over the period.
DROA will also be able to call on specific external assistance as needed, financed by the
Credit, of the same kind which it has successfully defined and made use of during the
transport strategy preparation and the preparation of the proposed IDA components. A
training program, closely linked to technical assistance, will define on an ongoing basis, the
types of training required by the new DROA structure.
4.15   The third risk involves mobilization of local communities and the effectiveness of
NGOs expected to provide support to these communities. IDA has already acquired some
experience in this area from the use of similar arrangements in the Rural Water and
Sanitation Project of May 1994 (Credit 2622-BEN), as those proposed for rural road
maintenance in this subcomponent. Local and/or international NGOs will be used to offer
support to local communities. NGOs will be carefully screened well in advance of field
operations, and will be offered external assistance during the first three years of the
component. Should local communities' motivation be low in respect of organizing
community associations and the collection of local counterpart funds, this will not
compromise pilot activity objectives. Rather it would mean a slower pace of
implementation of this specific element, and of Government's definition of a new rural road
maintenance strategy.
4.16 The fourth risk involves continuous adherence of all partners (Government and
donors) financing to the priority program. All donors were involved in the definition of the
TSS which proposed the priority program. The main donors commented on the
Government Strategy Note. A yearly joint program review and periodic donor round table
meetings will ensure continuing donor commitment and dialogue with the Government.



- 41 -
5. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED BEFORE NEGOTIATIONS
5.1    Government had taken the following actions prior to negotiations:
The policy letter covering the above agreements reached at appraisal was
approved by the Government Council on January 31, 1996 and sent to IDA
(para. 2.26 and Annex A). This letter confirms the following actions: (a)
creation of a port authority with greater powers (para. 2.35); (b) eliminating
SOBEMAP's monopoly for container handling (para. 2.35); (c) improving
procedures for licensing port operators (para. 2.35); (d) study aimed at
liberalization of maritime transport and redefining CNCB's role and fees (para.
2.34); (e) updated five-year priority road works and maintenance program
(paras. 3.3 and 3.4); and (f) expansion of CTN to include local community
partners (para. 3.33). A draft action plan for Road Fund staff restructuring is
also included in the above transport strategy letter (para. 2.31);
Copy of the signed contracts for privatization toll collections on the existing
road tolls was transmitted to IDA on February 1996 (para. 3.31);
The Cotonou traffic plan study under the ongoing Urban Project started in
February 1996 (Annex C and para. 3.35).
Program Implementation Manual which includes the documents listed in paras.
9, 20, 28 and 35 of Annex C was submitted to IDA (paras. 3.10 and 3.23); and
definition of the functions of program coordination committee.
Nominate a program management coordinator and the IDA Credit accountant
under the responsibility of the Director of MTPT's Cabinet (para. 3.24);
Decrees to strengthen PAC's authority over all operators were signed on May
31, 1996. New PAC's statutes and legal texts defining the contract to improve
cargo handling in the port and new arrangements for licensing port operators
(para. 2.35) have been prepared;
Draft revised statutes for the Road Fund (para. 2.29) have been submitted to
IDA and MTPT started the restructuring of its staff (para. 2.31).



- 42 -
B. CONDITIONS TO BE MET
5.2   Conditions of Effectiveness
The contract for making the funds of the Port Component available to PAC shall
be signed (para 3.26);
The contract for making the funds of AGETUR Component available to
AGETUR shall be signed (para. 3.34):
The Implementation Manual shall be adopted by the Borrower (para. 3.23);
The Road Fund should be reorganized as agreed with IDA and its Management
Comnmittee has met at least once (paras. 3.30 and 2.31):
The Borrower has taken the initial steps agreed upon with the Association for
the reorganization of DROA (para. 3.28);
Project auditors should be selected to IDA's satisfaction (para. 3.44).
5.3   During Implementation
The Borrower shall carry out the DROA reorganization program outlined in
ANNEX B3 of the Implementation Manual (para. 3.28);
The Borrower shall not undertake new road sector investment works prior to
consultation with IDA (para 3.30);
The Borrower shall enter into contracts with small enterprises through DROA
for the SMEs training and support program (para. 3.31);
The Borrower shall open Road Funds and AGETUR Project Accounts, will
make first deposits and will replenish them quarterly thereafter (paras. 3.30 and
3.34);
As a condition of disbursement of the rural road component, the Borrower shall
furnish IDA with evidence that it has established the Conseil Technique
National for rural roads with functions and organization acceptable to IDA
(para. 3.32);
The Borrower will not commence work on rural road maintenance until
beneficiaries have carried out all manual routine maintenance and at least 15
percent of road rehabilitation. The Borrower shall enter into these agreements
acceptable to IDA through DROA (para 3.32);



- 43 -
The Borrower shall complete Cotonou urban traffic management plan by March
31, 1997 (para. 3.35).
5.4   Quarterly, Annual and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall furnish quarterly reports to IDA including review of
performance indicators, status of Road Fund and project implementation (para.
3.45);
By October 31 of each year, the Borrower shall furnish to IDA for comment an
updated priority five-year road program, including a draft work program for the
succeeding year (para. 3.30);
By October 31 of each year, the Borrower shall furnish to IDA its draft five-year
priority port program and updated financial projections (para. 3.27);
By November 30 of each year, the Borrower will review with IDA the above
draft programs and projections and project implementation (para. 3.9);
By December 31 of each year, shall furnish agreed work programs and five-year
projections to IDA (para. 3.9);
The Borrower will provide annually sufficient budget to cover counterpart
contributions and deposit quarterly in the Road Fund CFA franc 150 million and
tax or greater amount which may be required for the road component. The
Borrower will ensure Road Fund deposits are used for agreed expenditure (para.
3.30);
The Borrower shall carry out a Mid-Termn Review with IDA no later than 30
months after effectiveness (para. 3.25);
By June of each year, the Borrower shall furnish audit reports for the project
accounts for PAC and AGETUR and a financial audit of the Road Fund (paras.
3.30 and 3.44).
C. RECOMMENDATION
5.5   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$40 million to the Republic of Benin.






AYM VEX A
NOTE DE STRATEGIE DU GOUVERNEMENT                              Page I of 6
1. Compte tenu de la situation g6ographique du Benin et de la structure de son
economie, le secteur tertiaire, et en particulier le commerce joue un r6le tres important
dans l'econoMiie du benin. ce secteur presente. avec le secteur aaricole. des
perspectives de croissances importantes. Les activites de commerce et de production
agricole sont celles qui generent la majonite des emplois peu qualifies et le
developpement de ces activites jouera donc un r6le important dans la reduction de la
pauvret. l'amelioration de lFefficacite de l'ensemble des operations de transport est une
condition indispensable au developpement du commerce et de I'agriculture. Conscient
de ce fait, le Gouvernement du benin a elabore et presente en octobre 1993 a l'ensemble
de ses partenaires au developpement sa strategie de transport. Cette strategie a ete
etablie apres une vaste consultation des differents acteurs publics et prives. Le
gouvernement du Benin confirme son engagement a mettre progressivement en oeuvre
cette strategie.
2. Un des principes fondamnentaux de cette strategie est d'accorder aux differents
acteurs du secteur des domaines d'intervention dans lesquels ils sont les plus efficaces.
Ce principe se traduit par une nouvelle repartition des r6les entre les acteurs publics et
prives. Pour obtenir une repartition optimale, le Gouvernement s'engage a entreprendre
les reformes decrtes dans la presente et qui reposent sur les principes suivants:
- I'amrhioration  du  recouvrement des couts   d'usage  de  la route  et
I'accroissement des ressources de 1'entretien des infrastructures publiques par
laugmentation de la contribution des usagers
- ia prise en compte des preoccupations des usagers dans les decisions relatives
au financement et a la gestion des infrastructures publiques;
- I'amelioration de lFefficacit6 des efforts financiers en assurant une etroite
collaboration et l'echange d'information entre toutes les sources potentielles de
financement (Gouvernement, bailleurs de fonds multilateraux et bilateraux, secteur
prive, ONG, etc...)
- 1'etablissement d'un systeme d'indicateurs qui permettra de suivre 1'evolution
des resultats des reformes et de proceder, si necessaire, a des ajustements;
- le transfert progressif a des acteurs pnrves de certaines fonctions actuellement
assumees par l'administration ou des entites publiques et qui constituent un frein au
developpement harmonieux du secteur.
- la liberalisation de l'acces contr6le aux professions du secteur, tout en
garantissant un niveau de performance acceptable ; et
- arnelioration de la secun'te des biens et des personnes.



AN.NEXA
Secteur Maritime et Portuaire                         Page 2 of 6
3. Le Gouvernement se propose de poursuivre les reformes entrepnses dans le
domaine man'time et portuaire depuis 1984, tout en arneliorant les performances des
diff6rents acteurs publics et prives.
a) Dans le domaine des transports mantimes. le  Benin prendra les
dispositions necessaires pour adapter ses procedures de geston des droits de trafic au
nouvel environnement sous-regional et international. Les procedures et structures
actuelles en matiere de gestion des droits de trafic seront revues sur cette base. En
particulier les statuts du CNCB et son fonctionnement devront etre revus pour lui
permettre de devenir un organe de representation des chargeurs et de promotion de la
chaine des transports.
b) Dans le domaine de la gestion portuaire et en vue de remedier aux
dysfonctionnements actuels des operations portuaires, il sera constitue une veritable
autorite portuaire qui sera dotee des pouvoirs lw permettant d'assumer cette autorite,
entrainant de fait une revision des statuts du Port Autonome de Cotonou (PAC). I1 sera
alors responsable des performances globales du Port et aura autonrte pour prendre les
mesures necessaires en vue de s'assurer que les divers operateurs respectent les
objectifs de performance technique auxquels ils seront tenus par contrat. La necessite
d'une coordination des partenaires de la communaute portuaire appelle la
redvnamisation du comite de coordination et la mise en place d'un observatoire
permanent des performances de la chaine portuaire. La manutention des containers et
la gestion du terre-plein a conteneurs seront confies a une structure privee regroupant a
son capital 1'ensemble des operateurs interesses notamment les armateurs, les
transitaires et les manutentionnaires. Les conditions d'acces aux differentes professions
dans l'espace portuaire seront redefinies pour garantir F'acces a ces professions aux
seuls operateurs presentant des garanties financieres et techniques suffisantes.
L'autorite portuaire aura autonte pour contr6ler les performances de tous les operateurs
et aura autorite pour prendre des mesures en cas de defaillance. Le raccordement de
tous les services au logiciel de gestion portuaire notanument les acteurs publics
(CNCB, COBENAM, SOBEMAP et DOUANE) et le fonctionnement correct du
comite de coordination faciliteront ce contr6le. La creation d'une zone franche de
stockage et de commercialisation des vehicules d'occasion permettra d'amrliorer les
perfornances du Port de Cotonou et d'assurer une meilleure securite.
Secteur Aerien
Le Benin a decide, dans le cadre de sa strat6gie de developpement, d'engager un
progranmue de mordernisation, de renforcement et de developpement du secteur aerien
en particulier la rehabilitation et le developpement des infrastructures et des
installations terminales de la plate-forme aeroportuaire de Cotonou.



A.4Y.EX A
Page 3 of 6
LEtat ne pouvant plus, par suite des engagements pris en matiere d'endettement
exterieur dans le cadre du programmune d'Ajustement Structurel en cours avec le Fonds
Mon6taire International et la Banque Mondiale, intervenir directement dans le
financement de ces investissements, a dcide de la creation d'une structure de gestion a
doniinante piivee, gage d'une gestion professionnelle et dynamique du secteur.
Secteur ferroviaire
Le Gouvernement poursuivra sa strategie en matiere de developpement de la
concurrence intermodale dont l'enjeu est l'amelioration ordonnee du fonctionnement du
cordor Benin-Niger par l'ouverture du trafic a une concurrence libre et loyale entre le
rail et la route. Les modalites de cette coordination passent par la mise en place de
postes de pesage-peage sur l'axe Nord-Sud Cotonou-Parakou et la reorganisation du
metier de transporteur de marchandise. Les negociations se poursuivront entre les Etats
du Niger et du Benin en vue de la mise en concurrence libre des transporteurs routiers
de l'OCBN et de la creation d'une filiale de transport combine rail-route. Les resultats
de la mise en oeuvre du plan d'entreprise de I'OCBN feront annuellement, l'objet
d'evaluation.
Entretien des infrastructures
Le Gouvemement confirrne sa volonte de placer en premiere pniorite 1'entretien
des infrastructures de transport pour assurer la conservation et le bon fonctionnement
des investissements tres importants qu'il a consentis. Pour la mise en oeuvre de cette
politique, le Gouvernement va mettre en place un programme quinquennal des
transports. ameliorer les outils d'actualisation de ce programme. et arneliorer les
procedures de financement et de realisation des programmes d'entretien routier.
a) un programnme d'investissement et d'entretien de 1'ensemble des
infrastructures de transport a ete e1abore. II place en premiere prion'te l'entretien
courant et l'entretien periodique des infrastructures de transports, y compris celles qui
sont gerees par les structures autonomes. Ce programme ne comprend que des
investissements dont le taux de rentabilite interne est au moins de 12 %. Ce
programme sera actualise chaque annee en fonction des besoins resultant de l'evolution
de la demande et des recentrages eventuels de la strategie de transport. Ce programme
sera discute avec les bailleurs de fonds du secteur lors de tables rondes qui seront
organisees au moins tous les deux ans. Le volet transport du programme
d'investissement public comprendra prion'tairement les projets inscrits dans le
programme quinquennal.
b) Le mode de financement de l'entretien routier sera revu pour permettre
de garantir les fonds necessaires au financement des programmes d'entretien courant
et periodique. Le Fonds Routier (FR) sera constitue en une structure autonome du type
Groupement d'lnteret Public (GIP) ou simulaire. Le Fonds Routier financera
exclusivement les actiVit6s d'entretien routier sur la base des travaux effectivement



AVVEX A
realises, le fonctionnement de la structure ainsi constituee, les audits des recettes et des Page 4 of 6
depenses et une participation aux fTais de fonctionnement partiel des services du
Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Transports intervenant dans 1'entretien routier, en
attendant la mise en place, pour ces dernieres, des budgets de fonctionnement
necessaires aux activites du MTPT dans le domaine de la programmation et du suivi
des activites d'entretien routier.
c) Les recettes du Fonds Routier seront constituees essentiellement par
une dotation du budget general de IrEtat, les reversements par le Tresor des taxes sur
les carburants et de la taxe de voirie affectees a l'entretien routier par la Loi de
Finances, des peages routiers dont la collecte sera confide a des operateurs prives dans
le cadre de contrats de collecte adjuges apres mise en concurrence des candidats
potentiels. Ia dotation sur le budget general correspondant au quart du montant annuel
sera versee au debut de chaque trimestre et les versements des recettes collectees par
le Tresor seront effectues dans un delai maximum de deux mois. Les peages seront
progressivement generalises sur l'ensemble du reseau bitume pour permettre
d'augmenter les recettes de sorte que le F R soit en mesure, a terme de 5 ans, de
financer l'ensemble de 1'entretien courant du reseau a charge du MTPT et en prion'te
les troncons sur lesquels sont installes des postes de peage ainsi que l'entretien
mecanise du reseau rural progressivement recupere et 30 % de ltentretien periodique
des routes en terre de ces deux reseaux. Les recettes du F R seront ensuite
progressivement augmentees de sorte que le F R soit en mesure, a terme, de financer
les 70 % de 1'entretien periodique restant dont le financement sera assure en attendant
par le PIP. I est entendu que le financement de l'entretien periodique des routes
bitumees continuera d'etre assure par le PIP.
d)  Des  mecanismes  permettant  d'accroitre  progressivement  la
parficipation des usagers et des ben6ficiaires au travers de leurs representants habilites
dans la preparation des programmes d'entretien routier et dans la gestion du F R, seront
mis en place.
e) Les travaux d'entretien routier realises en regie seront limites a la
capacite operationnelle actuelle des equipes soit environ 1 milliard de F CFA par an,
en regime de croisiere, et seront payes par le F R sur la base des travaux reellement
executes. Le reste des travaux sera confie aux entreprises privees dans le cadre de
contrats adjuges apres appels d'offres. L'organisation de la D R 0 A et ses effectifs
seront revus pour etre adaptes a ce recentrage de ses activites. Un systeme de support-
fornation des PME locales, qui sera gere par les representants de la profession et, a
terme entierement finance par les beneficiaires, sera mis en place. Un systeme de
primes de production et de performance sera mis en place progressivement pour tous
les agents intervenant dans l'entretien routier. Le Ministere des Finances deleguera au
MTPT la gestion des marches relatifs a l'entretien routier depuis la procedure
d'attribution jusqu'a la signature pour les contrats d'un montant inferieur a 1'equivalent
de 500 Millions CFA. Le MF assurera un contr6le des procedures a posterionr.
f) La DMTP sera transformee en une societe d'economie mixte de
location de materiel ou similaire. La nouvelle structure fonctionnera sur des bases



ANViVEX A
Page S of 6
purement commerciales dans le respect des regles de concurrence avec les societes
privees.
g) Le Gouvernement transferera progressivement la gestion du reseau de
pistes rurales aux usagers beneficiaires. La politique generale dans ce domaine est
basee sur les principes suivants: IEtat participera au financement de la rehabilitation
et de l'entretien du reseau qui n'est pas a charge du MTPT a la condition que ce reseau
presente un interet conomique demontre et que des partenaires locaux prennent en
charge la contrepartie aux financements et les depenses d'entretien courant manuel en
assurant l'execution  prealable  des travaux  objets de  cette  contrepartie; la
programnmation et la gestion du reseau sera assuree par les partenaires locaux et le
financement de lEtat assure par le biais de lignes speciales au sein du Fonds Routier
apres venification de l'eligibilite du programme par un Conseil Technique National
constitue des differentes entites administratives concernees (MTPT, MDR, MISAT,
FR) et des representants des partenaires locaux. La strategie de transfert sera adaptee
au vu des resultats des operations en cours ou a venir et sera ulterieurement applicable
a toutes les entites publiques impliquees dans la realisation des travaux sur le reseau
rural dans le cadre de financement sur budget national ou sur financement exterieur.
Gestion de la circulation et securite routiere
Afin de garanir une utilisation optimale des  investissements importants
consentis dans le domaine des infrastructures routieres dans Cotonou, une attention
toute particuliere sera portee a la gestion de ces infrastructures. En particulier, une
cellule de gestion de la circulation de Cotonou sera mise en place au sein de la
Circonscnrption Urbaine de Cotonou pour concevoir et gerer le plan de circulation sur
['ensemble du reseau urbain. y compn's sur les troncons a charge du MTPT. La
coordinanon des actions en la matiere sera assuree par un Comite Technique de
Pilotage comprenant le MTPT, le MEHU, le Commissariat de Cotonou et la C U.
Conscient des tres lourdes consequences humaines et economique des accidents
de la circulation, le Gouvernement compte renforcer de fa,on importante le Centre
National de securite Routiere pour lui permettre de renforcer son r6le de contr6le et
d'information en faveur d'une reduction des accidents de la route. Ce renforcement
permettra de mettre en oeuvre un programme de travaux d'elimination des "points
noirs" sur le reseau prioritaire.



ANNEXA
Page 6 of 6
Respect de 1'eovironnement
Tous les travaux de construction et d!entretien routier serQnt  soumis a
I'application des directives en matere d'environnement qui ont ete elaborees suivant les
orientations du PNAE. Ces directives seront adaptecs si necessaare au fur et a mesure
de l'evolution des problematiques environnementales du Benin et de 1'experience qui
sera tiree de leur application.
Pour le Gouvernement de 12 Republique du Benn,
Le Ministre des Travaux Pu      des Transports k
:UEDO~~~DU



Table B-I: Matrix of Port Sub-Sector
Issues                           Covernment Response                                      Planned Measures
*   Incomplete Liberalization of Port       *   agreement to allow private         *   suppression of SOBEMAP monopoly on containers handling
Operations                                  operators to make their own        *   SOBEMAP will be held to technical standards
arrangements for container         *   study to review the role of the shippers' council (CNCB)
handling
*   Lack of Coordination among Port         *   decree setting PAC as the t'ully   *   PAC's statutes to give it real autilority for overall port operating
Operators                                   entrusted poll authority, pending      perforimiance
formal approval by Council of      *   licensing regulations and procedures for private operators to be
miniisters                             reviewed
*   port management software installed since 1992 to monitor
performance indicators
*   Physical Constraints: Port              *   specific areas have been identified   *   execuitionl of specific civil worlks to improve port perforimianice and(
Saturation in 1998                          and allocated to the handling of       postpone the need for extending the port surface
used cars in the port facilities
*   Low User Involvement: Existing          *   decree establishing users          *   creation of a Techinical Consulting Commilittee to assist in the
Committees Inefficient                      comm1littee involved in decisions      mission coordination
on port operations and facilitation    *   creation of an information base for monitoring operations
performance
*   Chamber of Commerce to acquire the means and capacity to
improve the effectiveness of its role
*   Weak Port Authiority Finances           *   agreement betweent CAA and PAC   *   freezing off payroll expenditures at CFA franc 1,060 M until the
to reschedule the reimbursement of     year 2000
long term debt                     *   setting aside about CFA franc 270 M per year for periodic and
*   downsizing ofstaff in 1991-1992        spending CFA franc 150 M a year in routine maintenance
(50% reduictioni)                  *   limiting external borrowings to CFA franc 3MM over the next six
years
*   limiting investment expenditures to the strict minimum required for
operational performance to improve
*   if necessary, increases in port fees to bring sufficient revenues to
cover for all maintenance related expenses
*   creationl and effective use of workable and tailored tools for
accounting managemenit, including staff training
IV 



Table B-2: Matrix of Road Sub-Sector Management
Issues                         Government Response                                   Planned Measures
*   improvements in data quality and program preparation
*   Limited capacity in updating of      .  five-year priority program         .  upgrading of CPC staff skills in updating of the transport strategy
priority program, strategy oversight     prepared in October 1993 as part       adith   or  investmen pram
and absorptive capacity for              of the transport sector strategy and  and the priority  pgvestment program
investment                               updated in July 1994             *   five-year priority program to be reviewed at a Donor Round Table
every other year
*   Poor quality and analysis capacity of  *  restaffing of BGR in 1992       .  improvement of BGR capacity: (a) restructuring the architecture of
road transport statistics: data                                               the data base; (b) improve data analysis; (c) decentralization of the
collection and programming                                                    data collection ; and (d) strengthening BGR's tools and staff skills
*  improvement of DTT capacity : (a) replacement of DTT's computer
hardware and software ; (b) staff training ; and (c) study to propose
measures to improve the quality and complete range of data
.   Reduced performance in               .  reorganization of DROA             *  creation of a procurement unit within DROA with appropriate staff
procurement management                                                        and training
.   Limited capacity in implementation    *  50% of periodic maintenance and    .  road maintenance to be carried out by force account will be limited
of road maintenance programs             25% of routine maintenance           to CFAF I MM a year
executed by private enterprises  *  improve maintenance contract management tools
*  establishment of a "Sous          *  set up the drainage structure management unit within DROA
Direction" in charge of road     *  DROA reorganization
maintenance adequately staffed   *  building repairs and equipment purchase (vehicles and computers)
*  replacement of regional road      *  increase absorptive capacity of private sector in road maintenance
directorates by regional service for  *  delegation of procurement and contract management to DROA
road maintenance                 *  payment of force account activities on the basis of outputs
*   Inadequate staffing: employment      .  full assessment of the staff       a  DROA support by short term technical assistance
status, overstaffing, and qualitative    situation in 1992                 *  employees laid off and re-hired as single man contractors
and quantitative gaps                *  action plan prepared in 1994
*   Inadequate staff management          *                                     *  creation of a staff management unit within DROA, reorganization
systems and staff training                                                     and reorientation of CRP
*  confusion on status and functions of   .  clarification of the status of the  *  Road Fund to become an autonomous agency
the Road Fund                            Road Fund                         *  essential function to define conditions for financing of road
*   reorganization of the Road Fund      maintenance works
(functions and staffing)         *  composition of the Board will change to include users groups
*   status of Road Fund staff to be redefined and formalized



Matrix of Road Sub-Sector Management (cont.)
inadequate funding for road         *  collection of existing road tolls  *  collection of road tolls will be extended to Cotonou-Porto Novo and
maintenance                             (Mono-Sazue and North-South        to the rest of the paved network
Road) have been contracted to   *  Road Fund income will be reserved for financing road maintenance
private operators                   works approved in the road maintenance program
*  three funding sources designated    *  MTPT overheads will be funded by government operating budget
government budget allocation,   *  Road Fund will temporarily finance operating costs for
funds collected by Treasury for     programming and supervision of maintenance activities, until
Road Fund and funds from users      government budget can support it
through tolls on paved roads    *  monthly financial summary will be produced to monitor financial
*  funds from road tax increased from  performance indicators
.15% to .85% of all exported    *  Road Fund accounting system will separately show different types
merchandise                         of works by network
*  road accident rate in Benin is very  *  National Center for Road Safety  *  improve cooperation with police authorities, tax authorities, and
high in relation to the fleet and the   was established in 1988 to design   insurance companies to improve the percentage of fleet passing
number of vehicle/km driven             and implement road safety policy    inspection
*  analyze continuously accident statistics to provide a tool for
determining the most urgent needs for improvement in road safety
*  expansion of CNSR's capacity for vehicle inspection and driver
education
Table B-3: Matrix of SME Sub-Sector
Issues                        Government Response                                 Planned Measures
*  limited market size                  *  remove economic constraints by    *  increase allocation of funds for road maintenance
providing a stable market and
formal regulation
*  weak institutional environment       *  remove institutional constraints by   *  responsible for finalizing the training implementation manual,
creating of a Strategy Committee    drawing up a short list of potential training program managers,
approving proposed subcontractors, updating the list of training and
support activities, determining the number of initial training grants
and setting up costs sharing structures
oo0



Matrix of SME Sub-Sector (cont.)
*   limited absorptive capacity           *   upgrade staff performance in     *  ease access to public contracts by new procedures for contract award
mechanized works and higher          and payments
quality works                    *  ease access to heavy equipment by transforming DMTP into a
*  training and support for SMEs to      mixed-economy company
expand individual turnover
*  training program managed by a
Strategy Committee
Table B-4: Matrix of Rural Road Sub-Sector
Issues                         Government Response                                    Planned Measures
*   financing gap in the maintenance of    *  external financing has been sought  *  contributions from local partners for multiyear maintenance program
rural roads                              to cover the gap                  *  government financial support for this program with consolidated
*  rehabilitation and maintenance of     budget constraints
rural roads jointly financed by  *   local partners will cover a minimum of 10% of the total costs of
government, local partners and       works which result in road service improvements.
donors                           *  local partners will clear the land and terrace it for rehabilitation
works
*  government will finance additional rehabilitation works and periodic
maintenance
*   local partners will execute routine manual road maintenance on an
ongoing basis
*  government will finance mechanized routine maintenance
*   rural strategy to implement a    *  government contribution to provide level of service relative to
lack of planning for maintenance and                                           social-economic interest
poor coordination of rural               policy of rehabilitation and
investments                               maintenance
*   no coordination between the many     *   pilot operation in six geographic  *  assess the capacity and motivation of local partners to organize
actors: several strategies,               zones to define a workable           maintenance activities
approaches and programs                  approach to creating sustainable  *  assess their ability to assemble the resources in cash or kind for the
local implementation of road         above purpose
maintenance by local partners    *  establish specific procedures for the coordination and panicipation
of planning and execution of maintenance programs



Matrix of Rural Road Sub-Sector (cont.)
*   weak institutional arrangements        *   Conseil Technique National (CTN)  *   close coordination of construction and maintenance of rural roads
established for the coordination of    and their conformity with government policies
rural roads maintenanice           *   ensure effective transfer of government funds allocated to such
*   DROA to recruit an international       maintenance through the Road Fund
NGO with confirmed successful      *   supervision of the pilot operation by reviewing applications and
experience in community                selecting programs from eligible local partners
participation                      *   evaluate the results ot'the pilot operation and recommend actions to
improve results
*   recruit a local NGO to lead pilot operation
*   dissemination of information about the pilot program
*   assistance to the local partner in completing required steps to
become a formal legal entity and program participant
Table B-5: Matrix of llrban Road and Traffic Managemenit Sub-Sectors
Issues                           Government Response                                     Planned Measures
*   Cotonou urban road nietwork is         * since 1991 major int'rastrucLure    0*  improvements in data quality and prograam preparation
frequently congesred                       projects to increase capaiityr ctave   *   upgrading of CPC staff skills in updatinig oftthe transport strategy
foencto increase  sca it, hve          and the priority investment program
been completed or a*   program to be reviewed at a Donor Round Table on June Ist of
for completion soon
every other year
.       creation of a trat'fic management unit within Cotonou Municipality
*   no formal structures for works         *   a Technical Steering Committee          c
programming, trafric management or         has been created which includes    *   design and implementation of a traffic management plan
associated funding                         public actors in traffic and
infrastructure
*   a traffic study was commissioned
in April 1995 to pinpoint problems
and recommend remedial actions
*   intersections are not adequately       *   a traffic diagnosis has been        *   redesign and reconfigure 10 intersections in urban centers
designed, signalization and traffic        completed in 1994                  *   redirect the flow of traffic in compliance with the tratfic
regulation haphazard, and parking                                                 management plan
poorly located                                                                *   relocate parking space
*   renovation and improvement of bus and trucks stations
*   traffic accident rates are very high   *   ongoing upgrading of the urban     *   construction of reserved lanes for two-wheelers
road network                      *   involvement of road users in the decision-making
*   rules of the road are not followed                                            *   effective enforcement of urban traffic rules on the roads through
police training                                                          t



THE DIRECTORATE OF ROADS AND BRIDGES
CURRENT ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
LEGEND:                                                                                                                 D
BEP    Bureau Etudes et de Planification
BGR      Bureau de Gestion Routiere
CM       Cellule des Marches
COA      Cellule Ourages d'Act
CPR      Cellule Pistes Rurales
CRP      Centre Recyclage et Perfectionnement
DA       Division Administrative                                                                                                                    SDER
DAF      Division Administrative et Financiere
DAG      Division Administration et Gestion
DAP      Division Analyse et Programmation                                                                                       IDB        DUF    FDA-PI   FD AFl    FSRE
DB       Division des Brigades
DE       Division Economie
DEC      Division Etudes et Contr6le
DF       Division Financiere                                       BGR                       CRP                        SRDR                        SERC                      SAF
DFGC    Division Formation Genie Civil
DFM      Division Formation Mecanique                                                                             III
DROA   Directeur Routes et Ouvrages d'Art                   L3 [                    DA            E| DFGC       DAF       DT       DE      [             | D FE DRPS|  D           DA
DROS   Div. Reglementation, Ouvrages Specifiques
DT       Di%ision Technique
DTE      Division Trafic et Economie
DUF   Division Unites de Fabrication                                                             PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
S.OP.   Service Operationalle
SA       Secretariat Administratif
SAF      Service Administratif et Financier
SDAF    Sous-Direction Administrative et Financicre                                                                     DROA
SDER    Sous-Direction de l'Entretien Routier
SDPP    Sous Direction Planification et Programmation
SDTN    Sous-Direction Travaux Neufo                                                                            CPI
SEP      Service Etude et Projet
SERC    Service Etudes, Reglementation et Contr6le
SGCE    Service Gestion Contrat Entreprise                                                                      c m -
SGCR    Service Gestion Contrat Regie
SGM      Service Gestion des Marches
SLC      Service Logistique et Comptable
SP       Secretariat Particulier
SP       Service Programmation                                     SDPP                     SDAF
SPM      Service Passation Marche
SRDR    Service des Routes de Desserne Rurales
SRER    Service Regional de I'Entrctien Routier               B         B E P       S       SGC      S              S P        5 E P
0 t:



ANNEX B
ROAD FUND RESOURCES AND FINANCING                              Page 7 of 18
Table B-6: Benin : Routine Road Maintenance Requirements:
Estimated Total and Targets for MTPT Network, 1995 through 2000
(CFA franc millions, including taxes)
1996        1997      1998    1999   2000
MTPT Earth Network
*  rehabilitated before 1996    1,403    1,394      1.417    1,371   1,304
*  to be rehabilitated 1996-97               110      219       219     219
*  reclassified from rural                    63       125      125     125
Subtotal, Earth Network   1,403      1,567       1,761    1,715   1,648
Rural Roads                       60         120       180      240     300
Paved Roads                     534          350       395      680     801
TOTAL                         1,997      2,036      2,336    2,635   2,749
Table B-7: Benin: Road Fund Income Forecast, 1995-2000
(in CFA franc millions, 1994 base costs)
Income Source               1995   1996   1997    1998    1999   2000
Central Government subsidy (transfer)  600    600    600       600     600    600
Existing toll stations                 240    240    240       240     240    240
Fuel Tax                               350    350    350       350     350    350
New toll stations                              160    160      585    1,010  1,010
Roadtax                               1,100   1,100  1,100   1,100   1,100  1,100
Other sources                           80      80      80      80       80     80
TOTAL                                2,370   2,530  2,530   2,955   3,380  3,380
Table B-8: Benin: Road Fund, Expenditure Forecast, 1995-2000
(in CFA franc millions)
Expenditure Category        1995    1996      1997      1998     1999     2000    TOTAL
Investment                         190                                                      190
Debt service                       180     180                                             360
Road Fund operating cost                    20        20       20       20         20       100
Payroll                            230                                                      230
Staff restructuring                470     130                                              600
Routine Maintenance               1,100   1,500     2,036    2,336    2,635     2,749    12,356
(percent of total covered)  (55 %)  (74%)   (100%)  (100%)  (100%)   (100%)
Periodic maintenance                       500       300      300       520       670     2,304
MTPT supervision                   200    200        200      200      200                1,000
TOTAL                            2,370   2,530      2,530    2,950    3,380     3,380



Table B-9: PORT AtlITONOME DE COTONOU
PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(F CFA '000)
P'rojectced
1995       1996       1997        1998       1999        2000       2001        2002       2003       2004
Number ofShips             1,136       1,275      1.276      1,277       1,283       1,292      1,299       1,307      1,314      1,322
Annual Percent. Growth                   12.2%        0.1%       0.1%        0.5%        0.7%       0.5%       0.6%        0.6%       0.6%
Merchandise Sold            2,025      2,107       2,206      2,303      2,427       2,562       2,703      2,843      2,962      3,082
Annuul Percent. Growth                    4.0%        4.7%       4.4%        5.4%        5.6%       5.5%       5.2%        4.2%       4.0%
Total Operating Revenues    6.061,600   6,152,928   6,321.061   6,515,712   6.753,208    7,017,528   7,242,955   7,467,151   7,661,268   7.855,385
Non Operatng Revenues        574,000    161,000     161,000    161,000    161.000      161,000    161,000    161,000    161,000    161,000
Total Revenues          6,635,600   6,313,928   6,482,061   6,676,712   6,914,208    7,178.528   7.403.955   7,628,151   7,822,268  8,016,385
Total Operating Expenses    5,054,255   4,787,284   4,902,407   5.123,434   5,369,162    5,623,937   5,801,205   5,975,935   6,160,790   6,356,376
Other Expenses          1,406,911   1,392,593   1,432,002   1,437,458   1,424,387  851,414     859.249    863,933    853,340    838.669
Total Costs           6,461,166   6,179,877   6,334,409   6.560,892   6,793,549    6,475,351   6,660,454   6,839,868   7,014,130   7,195,045
Net Income              174,434    134,051     147,653    115.820    120,659     703,177     743,501    788,283    808.138    821.340
Total Owners' Equity     10,491,434  10,625,485  10,773.138  10.888,958  11,009,617   11.712,794  12,456,296  13,244,579  14,052,717  14,874,057
Long Term Debt         15,061.953  14,926,826  14,851,960  14,691,094  13,931.015   13,149,705  12,368,395  11,507,013  10,565,558   9.624,104
Internally Generated Funds  4.701,268   2,425,390   2,277,903   2,152,384   2,165.644    3,230,820   3,468,351   3,524.169   3,387,902   3,392,433
Debt Service - Principal   (1,016,002)   (958.127)   (906,866)  (906,866)   (844,079)   (781,310)   (781,310)  (861,382)  (941.454)  (941,454)
-  Interest       (250.000)  (402,433)   (433,505)  (458.471)   (442,435)   (420.435)   (403,554)  (380,792)   (358,029)  (335,267)
Investments          (2.913,060) (1,816.000)  (1.322,000) (1,106.000)   (869,000)   (850,000)   (352,000)              -          -
Working Capital        (1,244,834)   (101,731)   24,079      90,664     96.782      37,854     (47,788)   (47,964)    27,800     27,800
Net Surplus/(Deficit)     (722,628)    (29.901)    471,611   517,711     190,912    1,216,929   1,883,699   2,234,031   2,116,219   2,143,512
Cash Balance           (1,051,003)  (706,064)   (208,350)   216,375   279,335     871,284   2,210.889   3,838,179   5,259,087   6.693.197
Retum on Equity Share Capital       2%         1%          1%         1%          1%          7%         7%         8%          8%         8%
Current Rabio (times)           0.5        0 6        0.9         1 2        1.2         1.6        2.1         2.8        3.4        4.0
Total Liabilites % Total Capitalizabon  62%      61%        61%        60%         59%         56%         54%        51%        48%        44%
See details in Project File
X <



KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Project Implementation
Component                                   Action                                             Date
Overall Project                             Annual updating of the Five Year rolling program   December 15 of each year
Donor meetings                                     November 1996, 1998 and 2000
Quarterly reports                                  One month after the end of each quarter
A- Port Operations and Management           Full accounting system installed                   June 1, 1997
Preparation of maintenance program and budget      October 31 of each year
Establishment of a private container handling company   December 31, 1996
Connection of all port operators to Portware       December 31, 1996
Full implementation of port coordination tools     December 3 1, 1996
Reform of CNCB                                     December 31, 1996
B- Road Rep., Maint., Saf. and Managt       Completion of DROA reorganization                  July 3 1, 1997
Signature of the contract for SMEs support unit    July 30, 1997
Preparation of Road Maintenance Program and budget   October 31 of each year
Signature of the contracts for works with SMES     1.5 month after bid submission
Payment of invoices to SMEs                        30 days after the end of the month
C- Rural Road Rehabilitation and Management   Definition of road selection procedures and criteria  September 17, 1997
Signature of the first convention with local entity  November 30, 1997
D- Urban Traffic Management                 Definition of work selection procedures            February 28, 1997
Completion of the traffic management plan          March 31, 1997



SECTOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Performance Indicator                               1996           1997            1998          1999              2000
Port Sector
. Traffic (million of t.)                          2,107          2,206           2,303         2,427             2,562
. Maintenance expenses (CFAF M)                      150           150             150           150               150
. Estimate for port saturation                     2,250          2, 400          2,500         2,600             2,600
MTPT Road Sector
. Road Fund resources (CFAF M)                     2,530          2,530           2,955         3,380             3,380
. Routine maintenance expenses (CFAF M)             1,500         2,036           2,336         2,635             2,749
. Periodic maintenance by RF (CFAF M)                500           274             394           525               611
. Km of regravelling                                 500           500             500           568
. Earth road rehabilitation km                       300           311             311           300
. Maintenance needs covered                         70%           100%            100%          100%              100%
. Private sector capacity (CFAF M)                   700           1,200          1,900         2,500             3,200
.Road condition: % below NS 3                        50            40              20             10                0
Cotonou Traffic
. Trip duration for Godomey-SOBEBRA (minutes)        45            35              30            25                22
Rural Road Sub-Sector
Km transferred to local partner                      0              50             150           250               300
'IV



ANNEX B
Page 11 of 18
REORGANIZATION OF DROA AND ROAD MAINTENANCE
(Supplemental Letter No. 2)
(1)    approval by the Management Committee of the internal regulations and procedural
manual of the Road Fund by February 28, 1997;
(2)    setting in place the proceedings within the MTPT relating to the evaluation and
awarding of contracts for an amount of less than CFAF 500,000,000 by February 28,
1997;
(3)    setting in place the proceedings allowing the financing of road maintenance works
executed by force account based on the outputs, by February 28, 1997;
(4)    finalization of redeployment of DROA's managing staff in conformity with the new
organization of DROA by March 31, 1997;
(5)    hiring managing staff of the Road Fund by March 31, 1997; and
(6)    appointment of the new Director of the Road Fund, by the Chairman of the
Management Committee of the Road Fund, by July 31, 1997.



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Summary of Project Costs
CFAF '000s                   USS '000s                  CFAF '000s                    USS '000s
Project Components                 Local  I Foreign  I  Total    Local |Foreign| Total    Local  I Foreign  I  Total            Local |Foreign|
I ocal     orciUt Base Cost                    T                         nIclud. Contingencies
t    Port Operatlons &   anagement            1,201,500   1,213,500  2.415,000  2,403  2,427  4,830   1,447,095   1,405,257  2,S52,351  2,894  2,S11  5,705
B.  Road Repair, laIntenance, Safety          6,299,750  7,339,750 13,639,500 12,600 14,680 27,279  7,566,257  8,484,070 16,050,327 15,133 16,968 32,101
and Network Nlanagement
C    Rural Road Rehabilitation and              559,400    737,600   1,297,000  1,119  1,475  2,594    687,995    853,725   1,541,720  1,376  1,707  3,083
Management
D.  Urban Road Improvements and                 874,960    950,640   1,825,600   1,750  1,901  3,651   1,067,316   1,098,143  2,165,459  2,135  2,196  4,331
Traffic Management                                                                        _
OTAL BASE COST                               X,935,610 10,241,490  19,177,100 17,871 20,483 38,354
OTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   859,472    790,006   1,649,478  1,719  1,580  3,299
OTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      973,581    809,698  1,783,279  1,947  1,619  3,56                                  _
ITOTAL PROJECT COST                         110,768,6621 11,841,1951 22,609,8571 21,537 23,6821 452201 10,768,6621 11,841,195 22,609,857121,537123,6821 45,22N1
Note: Discrepancy in figures ia due to rounding.
COMPARATIVE DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
900%0
70%4
60%                                                                                                          SA+stm 
70% -f
40% -'--Transport Profil
200h6
50% 
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   S   9   10  II  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27
Quarters



ANNEX B
Page 13 of 18
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTNIENT PROGRAM
Detailed Project Financing
Financing Plan (USS '000s)
Project Components                  IDA     Other
______________________________________         Credit   Donors    Govt    Benef     PAC      Total
A.  Port Operations & Managenment
1. Works                                  3,687        0        0        0      410    4,097
2. Studies                                  55S        0        0        0        0      558
3. Technical Assistance & Training        1,049        0        0        0        0    1,049
ITOTAL COiMIPONENT A                              5.295        0        0        0      410    5,705|
B.  Road Repair, laintenance, Salety
and Network Nianagemrent
1. Works
- EPC                                  6,381        0      709        0         0    7,090
- Bridge Repairs & Drainage            6,130        0      681        0         0    6,811
- Periodic Maintenance                 6,188        0    2.289        0         0    8,477
- Building Upgrading                     257        0       29        0         0      286
- Safety Works                         1.119        0      124        0         0    1,243
2. Feasibility Studies                      229        0        0        0        0      229
3. Technical AssistanceiTraining
- DROA                                 1,958        0        0        0         0    1,958
-NITPT                                   165        0        0        0         0      165
-DTT                                     165        0        0        0         0      165
-CNSR                                    470        0        0        0         0      470
-Audit                                   171        0        0        0         0      171
- S%IES Promotioni                     1.544        0        0      316         0    1,860
4. Studies and Supervision                2,278        0        0        0        0    2,278
5. Equipment
-%ITPT                                   739        0      130        0         0      870
-CNSR                                     23        0        4        0         0       27
fOTAL COMPONENT B                               27.818        0   3,966       316        0  32,101|
C.  Rui-al Road Reliabilitatioli wnd
Manazemnent
1. Rural Road Works                       1.832        0      204        0        0    2,035
2. Stipport by NGOs                         688        0        0        0        0      688
3. Tecluiical Assistance                    360        0        0        0        0      360
ITOTAL COiNIPONENT C'                            2.880        0      204         0        0    3,083
D.  Urban Road Inipr-ovemenits and
Traflic Mana2emireint
1. Works
- DROA                                   905        0      101        0         0    1,005
- AGETL'R                              1,924        0      214        0         0    2,138
2. Studies                                  626        0        0        0        0      626
3. Support by NGOs                          132        0        0        0        0       132
4. Eng. Studies & Supervision
-DROA                                     92        0        0        0         0       92
-AGETUR                                  183        0        0        0         0      183
5. Equipment                                 54        0        9        0        0       63
6. Operating Costs - AGETUR                  91        0        0        0        0       91
TOTAL CONIIIONENT D                              4.007        0      324        0         0    4,331
[TOTAL PR)JEcr cosT                         .[ 40,U00         0   4,494       316      410   45"20J
Note: Discrepanncy ii ligirres is due to r ouwdinig.



REPUBLIC OF BEN1N
ANNEX B
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                                       Pagre 14 of 18
Detailed Project Costs
(USS '000)
Ccal CF'OOOs               USS'O U0s                 CFAFF OOUs                   USS'UOOs
Project Components           l  Local  |         For   Total    Local jForeignj Total    Local    Foreign  I  Total    Local |oreign| Total
*Base Cost                                                             Includi Contii8encies
.. Port Operations & Management
1. Works                             1,037,000    663,000  1,700,000  2,074  1,326  3,400  1,259,269    789,164  2,048.434  2.519  1.578  4,097
2. Studies                             25,000    225,000    250,000     50    450    500      28,354    250,831    279,185     57    502    558
3. Technical Assistance&Training       139.500    325.500    465,000    279    651    930    159.472    365.261    524.733    319    731  1.049
BASE COST                                   1,201,500  1,213,500  2,415,000  2,403  2,427  4,830
hysical Contingencies                      117.317     97,273    214,590    235    195   429
Price Contingencies                          128277      94,484    222.761    257      189   446
TOTAL CONIPONENT A                          1,447,095  1,405.257  2.XS2,351  2.894   2,811  5.7    1.,47,095  1,405.257  2,S52,3511 2,894  2,811  5.70
B.  Road Repair, Mlaintenance, Safety
and Network Management
I. Works
- EPC                             1,794,600  1,196,400  2.991,000  3,589  2,393  5,982  2,141,004  1,404,094  3,545.098  4,282  2,808  7,090
- Bridge Repairs& Drainage        1,404,500  1,404,500  2,809,000  2,809  2,809  5,618  1,720,392  1,685,266  3,405,657  3,441  3,371  6,811
Periodic Maintenance             1,750,000  1,750,000  3,500,000  3,500  3,500  7,000  2,140,956  2,097,613  4.238.568  4,282  4,195  8,477
- Building Upgrading                 72,000     48,000    120,000    144     96   240      86,325     56,568    142,893    173    113    286
- Safety Works                      250,000    250,000    500,000    500    500  1,000    314,631    306,825    621,456    629   614  1.243
2. Feasibility Studies                  10,000    90,000    100,000     20    ISO   200       11,689    102,895    114,584     23    206   229
3. Technical Assistance/Training
- DROA                              186,600    746,400    933,000    373  1,493  1,866    198,109    781,010    979,119    396  1,562  1.95
- NITPT                              15,000     60,000     75,000     30    120   150      16,724     65,621     82,345     33    131    165
*DTT                                15,000    60,000     75,000     30    120    150      16,724    65,621      82,345     33    131    165
CNSR                               64,050    149,450    2 13,500    128   299    427     71,538    163,700    235,239    143    327   470
- Audit                               8.000     72,000     80,000     16   144    160       8,706     76,926     85,633      17   154   I7-1
. SMES Promotion                    486,600    324,400    811.000    973    649  1,622    562,589    367,481    930,069   1,125   735  1,860
4. StudiesandSupervision              200,400    801,600  1,002,000    401  1.603  2,004    231,457    907,340  1.138,797    463  1,815  2.278
5. Equipment
- MTPT                               41.700    375,300    417.000     83   751    834      44,041    390,923    434,9641    88    782    870
. CNSR                                1,300     I 1,1G     13,000      3     23    26       1,373     12.187     13,560      3      24     27
BASE COST                                   6,299,750  7,339,750 13,639,500 12.600 14.680 27,279
Physical Contingencies                       616,552    577,568  1.194,120  1.233  1,155  2,388
Price Contingencies                          649.955    566,752  1.2 16,707  1,300  1,134  2.433                                 I _ _ _
TOTAL COINIPONENT B                         7,566.257  8.484,070 16,050.327 15.133 16.96X 32,101  7.566.257  8,484,070 16,050,327 15.133 16,968 32.101
C. Rus-Ad Road RehabIlitation and
Managemaent
1. Rural Road Works                   496,200    330,800    827,000    992    662  1,654   616,559    401,087  1,017,646  1,233    802  2,03S5
2. Support by NGOs                     30,800    277.200    308,000     62    554    616     34,932    309.024    343,955      70    618   688
3. Technical Assistance                32.400    129.600    162,000     65   259   324       36,504    143,614    180,118      73    287    360
BASE COST                                    559,400    737.600  1.297,000  1,119  1,475  2.594
Physical Conitingencies                       52.683     53,03 1    105,714    105    106   211
|Price Contingencies                           75,912     63.094    139.006    152    126   278
rOTAL COMPONENT C                       -1  687.9951  853,7251 1,541,720| 1,3761 1,707  3,083    687,995    853,725| 1,541,7201 1,376| 1,707j 3.083
|D. Urban Road lniprovenikeits and
Trafric Manasenzent
1. Works
DROA                              252,000    168.000    420,000    504    336    840   304,601   -198,147    502.748    609    396  1.005
- AGETUR                            521.160    347,440    868,600  1,042   695  1,737    647,606    421,276  1,068,883  1,295    843  2.138
2. Studies                              28,600|  257,400    286,000      57    515   572      31,761   281,450    313,212      64    563    626
3. SupportbyNGOs                        6,000     54.000     60,000      12   108   120        6,711     59,224     65,935     13    118    132
4. Eng. Studies & Supervision
DROA                                8.200     32,800     41,000     16    66    82        9,367     36,729      46,097     19     73     92
AGETUR                              16,000    64,000     80,000     32    128   160       18.654    73,010      91,664     37    146    183
5. Equipment                             3.000    27.000      30.000     6      54    60       3,192     28,307     31,499      6     57     63
6. Operating Costs - AGETUTR           40.000          0     40,000    801       0     80     45,422         0      45,422     91      0     91
BASE COST                                    874,960    950,640  1,825,600  1,750  1,901  3,651
Physical Contingencies                        72.919     62,135    135.054    146    124   270
Price Contingencies                          119.436     85.369    204,805    239    171,  410
||OTAL COMPONENT D                          1,067316| 1U98.143  2,165,459  2,135  2.1'6| 4I33   1067,316| 1.098.143| 2,165,4591 2,135| 2.1961 4,331
[rorAL BASE CVS'I'                         8.935,6101 10241,4'90 19,177,100 17.871 20.483 38,354
[rOTAL PIIYSICAL CONTINCENCIES                839,472    790,006   1,649,478  1,719  1,580  3.299
TOTAL PRICE CONTINCENCIES                ||  973.581    809.6981 1,783,279  1,947  1.619| 3.567 _                      ________
|frorAL I'ROJEC'T COST                    ][ I0,768,662 11.41,1'J  22,609,857 21,i37 23,682 45.22t11 IU,768.662 [11,841,1 95S 22,609,8571 21,5371 23,6821 45.220
Note: Discrepwicy in ligures is due to rowadisng.



ANINEX B
Page 15 of 18
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTAIENT PROGRANI
Detailed Procurenmel1t Mlethod
Total Project C'ost                       of which IDA Financed           I
Project Components                  ICB |  NCB   |  OT           | TOrALj|  ICB            NC'B       OTH      TOTAL
Port Oper.ations & Nlaiiagenieiit
1. Works                                   3,512        585          0      4,097      3,161        526          0      3.687
2. Studies                                      0          0       558        558          0           0       558        558
3. Technical Assistance & Training              O          0      1.049      1 049         O0                 1,049      1.049
TOTAL COMNiPONENT A                                3.512        585      1,608      5,705     3,161        526       1,608      5,295
B. Road Repair, N%laiteiiance, Saf'ety
and Network Manageniit
1. Works
- EPC                                    4.816      2.275          0      7.090      4,334      2,047          0      6,381
- Bridge Repairs & Drainage              4.626      2,185          0      6,811      4,164      1,967          0      6,130
- Periodic Maintenance                   5,758      2,719          0      8.477      4.203      1,985          0      6,188
- Building Upgrading                       194         92          0       286         175         83          0        257
- Safety Works                             844        399          0      1,243       760        359           0      1,119
2. Feasibility Studies                          0          0       229        229          0          0        229        229
3. Tecniical AssistuinceTraining
- DROA                                       0          0      1.958      1,958          0          0      1,958      1,958
*MTPT                                        0          0       165        165          0           0        165        165
- DTT                                      0          0        165       165           0          0        165        165
- CNSR                                       0          0       47i0       470          0           0       470         470
- Audit                                      0          0        171       171           0          0        171        171
- SMIES Promotion                            0          0      1,860      1.860         0           0      1,544      1.544
4. Studies and Supervision                      0         0      2.27S      2.278          0          0      2.278      2.278
5. Equipment
- MTPT                                     719        139         12       870        611        118          10       739
- CNSR                                       0          0        27         27           0          0         23         23
TOTAL CONIPONENT 1B                               16,956      7,8U9      7,336    32,101     14,246       6,5S9      7,013    27,818
C.  Rural Road Rehalbilitiona ajid
I     .,mag:tenient                                  II11                                           
1. Rural Road Works                            ol    2.035           0      2,035          0      1,S32          0       1,832
2. Support by NGOs                              0!        0        688        688          0          0        688        688
3. Techiical Assistance                         ol         0       360        360          0          0        360        360
rOTAL COMPONENT C                                      u      2.035|    1,0481     3,U03|          0 o    1.8321    1,048|    2,880,
D). Urban Road Iniprovements and
Trafflc Marnagemient
1. Works
- DROA                                    314         692          0      1,005       282        622           0        905
- AGETUR                                  667       1,471          0      2,138       601       1,323          0      1,924
2. Studies                                      0          0       626        626          0          0        626        626
3. Support by NGOs                              0         0        132        132          0          0        132        132
4. Eng. Studies & Supervision
- DROA                                       0          0        92         92          0           0         92        92
- AGETUR                                     0          0        183       183          0           0        183        183
5. Equipment                                   0          0         63         63          0          0         54         54
6. Operating Costs- AGETUR                      0         0         91         91          0          0         91         91
TOTAL CONIPONENT D                                  9811    2,162        1,18      4,331        883       1.946|    1.178       4,007
ITOTAL FiouECTr cosr                         J[  21,44-9i   12,5911   11,179    45,220    18.2901   10.8631   10,8481   40,00011
Note: Discrepancy hi tigur es is due to r owadling.



ANNEX B
Page 16 of 18
IDA SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Missions                            Activities                              Expected Skills           Staff
Requirements            Input
(SW)
Mission I      Attend donor meeting to be held at the same time
First Year     Supervision mission                                            Procurement               2
Project launching                                              Engineering              2
Start of traffic plan study                             Urban Transport Specialist      2
Procurement review for equipment, studies, TA, training        Economics                2
and civil works                                             Financial Analysis          2
Training program discussion                                     Training                2
12
Mission 2      Supervision mission to review start-up                         Engineering               2
First Year      Implementation of civil works, procurement services            Procurement               I
Equipment                                                   Financial Analysis          2
Follow-up on traffic plan                                      Economics                3
Review of Port performances and discuss priority              Port Specialist           2
programme for Port and Roads.
10
Mission 3      Supervision mission to review executing agencies               Engineering               2
Second Year      Performance and audits                                      Financial Analysis          2
Technical assistance performance, training                      Training                2
Implementation and works execution, first result of rural    Agro Economist             2
road pilot operation
8
Mission 4      Supervision mission to review overall progress of the          Engineering               2
Second Year     project with emphasis on                                        Economics                2
road maintenance                                             Urban Planning             2
donors coordination and port performances                   Financial Analyst           2
8
Mission 5      Supervision mission to review overall progress of the          Engineering               2
Second Year      project.                                                    Financial Analyst           2
4
Following years   Same pattems as for Missions 3 and 4 (including one to                               Year 3-20
prepare Mid-term review meeting to be held at the                                   Year 4-20
beginning of the third year)



ANNEX B
Page 17 of 18
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
Cumulative       Cumulative        Cumulative
Quarter      Disbursements    Disbursements    Disbursements    Disbursements
(US$ millions)    (US$ millions)         %              (Profile)
FY97
30 Sept. '96       0.00             0.00               0%                0%
31 Dec. '96        0.00              0.00              0%                0%
31 Mar. '97        0.80             0.80               2%                2%
30 June '97        1.61              2.41              6%                4%
FY98
30 Sept. '97       2.01              4.42              11%               6%
31 Dec. '97        2.01              6.43              16%               12%
31 Mar. '98        2.93              9.36              23%               18%
30 June '98        2.93             12.29             31%               27%
FY99
30 Sept. '98       2.93             15.22             38%               34%
31 Dec. '98        2.93             18.15             45%               42%
31 Mar. '99        2.37             20.52              51%              50%
30 June '99        2.36             22.88             57%               56%
FY2000
30 Sept. '99       2.37             25.25             63%               62%
31 Dec. '99        2.36             27.61             69%               70%
31 Mar. '00        2.00             29.61              74%              78%
30 June '01        2.00             31.61             79%               82%
FY2001
30 Sept. '00       2.00             33.61             84%               86%
31 Dec. '00        2.00             35.61             89%               86%
31 Mar. '01        1.47             37.08              93%              86%
30 June '02        1.46             38.54             96%               90%
FY2002
30 Sept. '01       0.97             39.51             99%               94%
31 Dec. '01        0.49             40.00             100%              96%
31 Mar. '02         --                --               --               98%
30 June '02                          --                --               98%
FY2003
30 Sept. '02       --                --                --               98%
31 Dec. '02         --               --                --               98%
31 Mar. '03         --               --                --               98%
30 June '03         --               --                --               100%



AANNEX B
Page 18 of 18
REPUBILIC Of BENtN
Transpovl S eota Program
Pr,ot Imd zorrMmO    Soheore
1997                1961999                                2009                20
Io   TAM Naw                         0 r3  4|Q-b1 0t2 003t  04 0        1 Q    01Qr3021t4011t  0 !Qt, 2Q, 3|0tb 4001 100 21t, 3]Qt 40tr4 0  0Q  2
Lmpbmu"d- DvsiA
I        COMPONENT A. ton                    *  12
2        Work
2              Bifl Coona Awrxd                i./___
4            Sopawio A T-L A.i_
6        TA, Stu A Trdladag
7            Bib &Co& nl Awrd
_              EoeooIaes
I        COMPONENT M. Rod                    *  1
19       Wor-
11           Birdl A C-d Aw-rd
12               Ph- Ia
12               Ph s 11
14               Ph. In
II           Supci,iw,
Is           C-ftrou.
1T               Ph- I
19               Phr 111
1s                Phas IIl
20       TA,Sthldle & rILh
21           Did- ACoC     Aw.ad
22           Eoo
2_       COMPONENT C. R-sel Road              .                   .3
24       W.rA.
2S            Bids & Con-toc Award
26                Pha  I
2|                Phase 11
26           Sop--sc« <                                                                        , 
29           Corootoc
30                PhoauI I
31                Pha se!
32       NCO. Opom.r I    TA
I33                                  I Sr"Ma  M                                         I            
24           Sopplr        
21       COMPONENT D. L'                          1
36       Wor."
37            Shb & Con15 .sC AnAI
29               sthjo i
40                Phs ll [if
41           Supmr                                                             MM
42           Coo-t-ads.
43                PhI .!!
P h- 11                                                           0.
41  Phl! II
47           sdliio
a   Sand!..                               __Task   Salad Up r , xk
Pro4ed: ImI     l rrnlsoon uan  orsirn ______P_g,___R___d_Up__A__
O^: 9i1Q195                ~~~~Mdawfone       *R.11lZ Up PrC4grffs
. S.umary                           *



ANNEX C
Page I of 16
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAM
FINANCED BY THE CREDIT
COMPONENT A: PORT OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT
Description
1.    The component comprises three elements: (a) a program of civil works to
improve port operations performance; (b) an assistance and training program to
improve port management and facilitation activities, including information campaigns
targeting organizations representing public and private port operators and PAC
personnel; and (c) a program of support to Programme d`appui a~ la conduite
d'operations municipales in the areas of financial management, accounting, and
management of this component.
2.    Subcomponent A-1: Civil Works in the Port (Part BI of the Credit). This
subcomponent is intended to assist PAC in improving port operations by improving
port infrastructure. It includes:
(a)   a program of works to renovate the port docking area and other
physical facilities in order to speed up port operations and clarify the
assignment of responsibilities to individual port operators, in particular
creating dedicated space for customs inspection of containers and for
used car handling and repair (CFA franc 1,450 M); and
(b)   paving of dockside curbs and of the most heavily trafficked surfaces
within the port, replacing and widening the current underdimensioned
pavement (40,000 m2) and repairing related drainage works (CFA
franc 250 M).
3.    Subcomponent A-2: Operator Involvement (included in Part B2 of the
Credit). This subcomponent consists of support to institutions and operators
involved in port operations to improve the collection and processing of information
indicating the efficiency of port activities, and establishment of mechanisms to
involve users in port strategy and facilitation decision-making. Short-term assistance
and training activities would include,
for PAC:
(a)   short-term technical assistance to introduce new port management and
information software and to analyse information on port performances
and facilitation (two months year 1, 1 month each in years 2, 3 and 4);



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 16
for MTPT:
(b)   short-term assistance to the Minister's office (cabinet du Ministre) for
a study designed to reform existing mechanisms for consultation with
users;
(c)   short-term technical assistance to the Minister's office to update the
facilitation and arbitration strategy, including studies and consulting
(one month a year, or a total of four months).
for port users and operators:
(d)   an information campaign for transport users, which would describe the
impact of transport facilitation and ways to improve it, including their
participation in the new port participation committee (two months);
(e)   short-term assistance for the Cotonou Chamber of Commerce to install
an information system to monitor the competitiveness indicators for
the Port of Cotonou (two months in year 1, one month during years 3 -
4, for a total of five months);
(f)   short-term training and assistance for the new port participation
committee (one month a year for three years, or a total of three
months).
4.    Subcomponent A-3: Program of Support to PAC for Financial
Management, Accounting, Priority Program Updating, and Component
Implementation (included in Part B2 and B3 of the Credit). This subcomponent
includes:
(a)   preliminary and final engineering and supervision of works to be
carried out under A-I (CFA franc 100 M);
(b)   annual financial and performance audits for PAC operations (four
audits totaling CFA franc 50 M);
(c)   a study to update the port development plan and to review the
feasibility of port extension works (CFA franc 100 M);
(d)   technical assistance for introduction of a cost accounting system,
including related training (CFA franc 40 M); and
(e)   a training program for operations management, financial management,
and accounting, programming, and program management (staff
training; CFA franc 245 M);
Implementation
5.    The civil works program in A- I above and training programs in A-3 will be
included in PAC's priority program, which will be updated on an annual basis. PAC
will prepare proposals for expenditures to be included in the program, including



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 16
routine and periodic port infrastructure maintenance, arranged in order of priority and
including economic analyses and justification. These proposed programs will be
updated each year on the basis of performnance evaluations, and following broad
consultation with operators and other actors involved in the port zone. Each year's
program proposal will be forwarded to IDA no later than October 31 of the previous
year together with the financial projections based on principles and formats agreed at
program appraisal and presented in the port section of the program implementation
manual.
6.    Detailed engineering for civil works will be prepared for PAC by engineering
consultants (bureaux d 'etudes techniques or BET) and contracts will be awarded
following bidding by a shortlist of consultants acceptable to IDA. PAC will hire
engineering consultants to carry out works supervision or to assist with supervision.
7.    The Finance Ministry will delegate the necessarv authority to award and sign
contracts for these works to PAC. An internal PAC committee headed by the Director
of PAC will award contracts to the least cost bidder whose proposal meets the post
qualification criteria indicated in the bidding documents. Works contracts will be
signed only by the PAC Director and the firm selected. Evaluation of bids on
contracts which are to be supervised by technical agencies other than PAC, a
representative of the entity in question (Public Works Minister's office, Chamber of
Commerce) will be incorporated in the commission evaluating the bids and selecting
the winner.
8.    Local counterpart funds (around CFA franc 204 M) will be financed by PAC
under its annual budgets. Funds made available to PAC for works under
subcomponent A-I will be released under terms to be specified in an agreement
acceptable to IDA. Financial audits of PAC will be carried out once a year by an
external auditor selected following IDA review, and the audit reports will be
forwarded to IDA prior to June 30 of each year for the previous year's accounts.
9.    Tables C-1 and C-2 show a summary of the technical assistance, and training
and a preliminary expenditure plan for this component. Further details regarding
implementation are provided in the Program Implementation Manual (PIM)
drafted during the program's preparation and finalized at negotiation. The PIM
includes annexes defining: (a) detailed procurement procedures; (b) accounting
procedures related to this component; (c) list of performance indicators; (d) draft
terms of references for technical assistance and studies included in this component;
(e) rules and methods for the preparation of the priority investment program and the
updating of the annual budget; (f) method for economic analysis of the investment
included in the priority program; (g) standard bidding documents to be used for this
component; and (h) draft agreement between PAC and the Government for the
onlending of the credit.



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 16
COMPOSANTE A
Table C-1: COUT DETAILLE ET FINANCEMENT (1)
(en millions de FCFAI
CATEGORIE                                                                                              COUT UNITAIRE         COUT TOTAL
1 (a)    Al TRAVAUX
Amenagement des terre-pleins et assainissement                                                              1.450,000,000
Pavage des boads A qua, et des voies                                40 000 m2                  15.000        250,000.000
SlTotal                                            1,700,000,000
3 (a)    A2 SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
Aupres du MTPT                                                    5 hommes-mois             10,000.000         50.000.000
Aupres du MTPT                                                    5 hommes-moIs            10 000,000          50,000.000
Aupres des usagers                                                10 hommes-mois           10.000,0           100,000 000
Etudes, contr6le des taraux et audits                                                                         130.000.000
Etude de plan de ddevloppement                                   10 hommes-mois            10,000.000         100 000.000
S/Total  30 hommes-mois                             430,000,000
3 (a)    FORMATION
AT pour mise en place comptabilitL analytique                                                                  40.000.000
Fomation gestion, finarce et compte                                 174 agents                400,000         245.000.000
S/Total    174 agents                               285,000,000
TOTAL GENERAL                                               Z415,000.000
PAC 0
(1) Not including contingencies
Table C-2: PLANNING DE MISE EN OEUVRE
(en millions de FCFA)
1997       1998       1999       2000       2001    TOTAL
Al TRAVAUX                                                                   500       1200           0          0          0       1700
A2 SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
AT PAC                                                                      10         10          10         10         10         50
AT MTPT                                                                     10         10          10         10         10         50
AT usagers                                                                  25         30          10         10         25        100
Etudes, conttible des travaux et audits                                     25         40         25          20         20        130
Etude plan de developpement                                                 40         60           0          0          0        100
S/Total         110        150          66         50         65        430
FORMATION
Comptabilite analytique                                                     40          0           0          0          0         40
Formaton                                                                    88         87         46         24           0        245
S/Total         128         87          46         24          0        285
Total G6in6ral         738       1437        101          74         66       2415



ANNEX C
Page S of 16
COMPONENT B: ROAD REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, SAFETY,
AND NETWORK MANAGEMENT
Description
10.   The component comprises five elements: (a) a program of earth road network
improvement and maintenance works; (b) a program of institutional strengthening for
MTPT for programming and implementation of road investment and maintenance,
including personnel management; (c) a program of assistance to entities responsible
for road safety; (d) a program of promotion and support to develop the local private
civil works sector; and (e) studies and audits necessary for the implementation of this
component, and for the updating of the road investment priority program.
I1.   Subcomponent B-I: Priority Road Works in Support of Government's
Transport Strategy (Part BI and B2 of the Credit). This subcomponent would
finance a portion of the five-year rolling road improvement and maintenance program
for the road network under MTPT. including:
(a)   elimination of all trouble spots (points critiques, or places where traffic
is blocked for part of the year) remaining on MTPT's road network on
road sections totaling about 1,066 km. of which 400 km are currently
impassable throughout the rainy season;
(b)   rehabilitation and consolidation of bridge and drainage works included
in the first two tranches of the priority program, on earth road sections
with traffic in excess of 50 vehlday, totaling about 850 kim;
(c)   periodic maintenance (regravelling of laterite roads required at
intervals greater than 12 months) included in the first three tranches of
the priority program, on earth road sections with traffic in excess of 50
veh/day, totaling about 600 kmi;
(d)   upgrading of existing buildings according to the need of reorganized
DROA.
(e)   a program of works designed to improve road traffic safety, including
works to eliminate frequent accident locations ("points noirs" on the
paved network, to be defined during program implementation on the
basis of road safety data to be collected by CNSR (see Subcomponent
B-3 below).
12.   Subcomponent B-2: Institutional Strengthening of MTPT (Part B3 and
B6 of the Credit). This subcomponent would include technical assistance and
training required to strengthen performance in existing ministerial units, and to create
new units, along with specific support in priority areas such as programming and
implementation of investment and maintenance projects, data collection and



ANNEX C
Page 6 of 16
processing, and personnel management within DROA. Activities included are
described below for each unit affected.
(a)   for CPC, introduction of procedures for updating the transport strategy
and the corresponding priority works program, plus short-term
assistance and training for annual program updating during the
program period and financial management of road maintenance during
the project implementation period (new Road Fund). (Equipment, six
months assistance plus 5 months of training);
(b)   for DTT within MTPT, assistance to improve performance in issuance
of driving licenses and commercial vehicle licenses (cartes grises), and
to set up a system for collecting and analysing land transport data (two
computers, training for 10 staff. ten months of studies and short-term
technical assistance for DTT studies).
(c)   for BGR within DROA, a short-term assistance and training program,
along with purchase of new equipment, to prepare BGR to effectively
perform its role in gathering and processing road transport data
required to update the priority road program (nine months of
international experts, 36 months of local consultants, training for a
staff economist and a programmer, 230 days of on-the-job training or
study tours, four computers including software and printer., and vehicle
weighing and traffic counting equipment to replace worn-out
equipment);
(d)   for DROA's contract management operations. a program of short-term
assistance and training plus equipment to set up a new unit for contract
award and management for construction and maintenance works (five
months assistance, five training sessions and 10 months of on-the-job
training, two computers plus software and printer, and office
furniture);
(e)   for DROA's maintenance programming operations, a program of
short-term assistance, training and equipment to improve performance
in the programming and management of maintenance works,
management of road maintenance contracts with private enterprises,
deconcentration of management activities to the regional level, and
management of bridge and drainage works. This program includes
short-term technical assistance (ten months at SDER and 11 months
on-site), purchase of new or replacement vehicles required for on-site
works supervision and road maintenance management (15 vehicles),
purchase of computers with software and printers (13 computers), and
staff training or refresher courses (24 months of training or internships,
37 sessions of refresher courses. and 200 days of study tours, vehicle
supplies), and assistance for restructuring of staff assignments within



ANNEX C
Page 7 of 16
DROA to reflect its new functions under the new transport strategy
(one month);
(f)   for DROA's personnel management, short-term assistance and training
to support the creation of a new personnel management unit, to support
the staff reorganization which this unit will carry out, and to give new
impetus to the CRP training center which is responsible for
management of training activities (nine months of assistance, six
months of training, and 30 sessions of refresher courses).
13.   Subcomponent B-3: Road Safety (Part B4 of the Credit). This
subcomponent consists of assistance to design and carry out an action plan which
would (a) consolidate and strengthen existing management capacities for road
security within DTT and CNSR, including road user and public transport user
participation; and (b) improve user safety by intensifying road safety prevention
campaigns and by identifying high accident locations on the interurban road network,
to be corrected under Subcomponent B-i. This would include:
(a)   office furniture and computer equipment for CNSR (two
microcomputers and software for processing road safety data);
(b)   short-term technical assistance to DTT to improve rules of the road
regulations (two months);
(c)   short-term technical assistance to both CNSR and the national police
force to introduce new data collection procedures and training in data
processing and analysis (five months);
(d)   short-term assistance to CNSR for processing of data collected and to
define annual infrastructure improvement works (four months), and
improve the system of on-site technical supervision and its
management (five months), and
(e)   studies and short-termn support to CNSR designed to improve the
system of enforcing vehicle weight limits and traffic rules, and to bring
users and local residents into the process of improving safety
performnance (four months of international experts and nine months of
local consultants).
14.   Subcomponent B-4: SME Support Program (Part B5 of the Credit). The
purpose of this subcomponent would be to strengthen the implementation capacity of
private enterprises in the civil works sector, in particular for road rehabilitation and
maintenance. The program includes: (a) creation of a training and support mechanism
which, by program completion, would be managed wholly by the SME beneficiaries
and by construction industry professional associations; (b) a program of basic and
ongoing training for participating enterprises' staff; and (c) a support programn to
assist construction industry enterprises during the construction phase of works
contracts.



ANNEX C
Page 8 of 16
15.   Subcomponent B-5: Studies and Project Management (included in Part
B3 of the Credit). This subcomponent would include the various studies required for
management of the priority program and implementation of the works to be carried
out, and for the management of the road network component as a whole. Specifically,
it would include: (a) annual audits required to monitor program; (b) feasibility studies
required to update annually the priority investment program; and (c) preliminary
engineering required to prepare bidding documents for works financed under the
program, and supervision of these works by consulting engineers.
Implementation
16.   MTPT will execute this component through DROA. Subcomponent B-l(d)
and B-3 will be managed in close collaboration with CNSR, including the preparation
of the priority program to eliminate trouble spots. Studies and assistance for vehicle
safety will be initiated and supervised by CNSR, under MTPT's coordination. SME's
development under subcomponent B-4 will be managed by DROA and the Steering
Committee. The implementation of the training program and of support to
professional associations and companies will be carried out under contract by an
experienced operator, selected following limited bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines, and the shortlist will include NGOs specialized in this area of operation,
selected with IDA advice. Training and support programs will be defined annually in
close collaboration with beneficiaries, and sent to IDA for review prior to October 30
of the previous year.
17.   At program startup and in agreement with the Road Fund, DROA will
establish procedures required to ensure financing of force account works based on
actual production. Conditions and procedures for financing road maintenance works,
and for providing counterpart funds required for road maintenance works financed by
external donors, will be defined prior to program startup.
18.   Works to improve traffic conditions in order to eliminate trouble spots and
improve road safety included in subcomponent B- I will be defined beginning in the
second year of the CNSR information system setup and updated at least once a year.
19.   Government counterpart funds will be financed by (a) the Road Fund, for
periodic maintenance (regravelling) works eligible for Road Fund financing (IDA
program counterpart funds estimated to total CFA franc 1,100 M); (b) beneficiary
participation in the financing of the SME training and assistance program; and (c) the
national budget for counterpart funding of rehabilitation works (trouble spots, bridge,
drainage, building repairs equipment, road safety improvement works, and
equipment), estimated to total CFA franc 900 M. Counterpart funds financed by
National Budget will be made available by National Treasure in a Project Account
opened by the Road Fund for this purpose.
20.   Tables C-3 and C-4 show a summary of the technical assistance, training and
equipment and a preliminary expenditure plan for this component. Further details



ANNEX C
Page 9 of 16
regarding implementation are provided in the Program Implementation Manual
(PIM) drafted during the program's preparation and finalized at negotiation.
The PIM includes annexes defining: (a) detailed procurement procedures; (b)
accounting procedures related to this component; (c) list of performance indicators;(d)
draft terms of references for technical assistance and studies included in this
component; (e)action plan for the reorganization of DROA; (f) priority program for
the road subsector; (g) method for economic analysis; (h) financing plan for this
component; (i) procedures for the implementation of a sub-component related to
SMEs support; (j) environmental guidelines; and (k) standard bidding documents to
be used for this component.
COMPOSANTE B
Table C-3: DETAIL AT, FORMATION ET MATERIEL
(POUR LES TRAVAUX, VOIR ANNEXE ECONOMIQUE)
Coit Total         Quantite           Cofit Unitalre
en FCFA
Assistance Technique (Categorle 3 C)
DROA-                                        Expert intem         440,000,000          44 hxm     10 000 000 FCFA'mo,s
Expert local         18,000,000          36 hxm     500 000 FCFA/mois
Form. base           48,000,000       2 agents BGR  24 000 FCFA/a
Voy. etude          25,000,000          250jours   100 000 FCFArjour
Stages             36,000.000         180 jours   200 000 FCFA/jour
84,000,000         28 mois   300 000 FCFA/mois
72,000.000          12 mois    6 000 000 FCFA/mois
Cessions           195.000,000        52 cessions  3 750 000 FCFA/c.
15,000,000        30 cessions  500 000 FCFA/mois
S/Total                         933,000,000
CPC du MTPT-                                Expert intem.          80.000,000          6 hxm      10 000 000 FCFA/mois
Stage Form.          15,000,000          5 mois    3 000 000 FCFA/mois
S/Total                          75,000,000
DTT-                                            Expert             50,000,000          10 hxm     5000 000 FCFAVmois
Cessions form.        25,000,000        10 cessions  2 500 000 FCFAtc.
S/Total                          75,000,000
CNSR-                                        Expert intem.        200,000.000          20 hxm     10 000 000 FCFA/mois
Expert local         14,000,000          9 hxm      10 000 000 FCFA/mois
S/Total                         214,000,000
Materibl (Cat6gorle 2)
DROA-MTPT                                     Vehicules           56,000,000             4        14 000 000 FCFAtv6hic.
182,000,000           13       14 000 000 FCFA/vehic.
Mesure BGR            15.500.000                    Comptage. uni, mobilier
Ordinateurs el accbs                                              65,000,000          20 unit6s   3 250 000 FCFA
Logiciels et mobilier DROA                                        98.500,000              Divers
SlTotal                         417,000,000
CNSR                                         Ordinateurs           13.000.000         2 unites    7 500 000 FCFA



ANNEX C
Page 10 of 16
Table C-4: PLANNING DE MISE EN OEUVRE
(en millions de FCFA)1
1997    1998   1999   2000  2001  TOTAL Cat6gorie
BI TRAVAUX                                 499    2508   2626   2687  1600   9,920   1 (b)
B2 RENFORCEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL MTPT
Assistance technique formation            215    233   230   222   183   1.083   3(c)
Materiel                                  153    264                         417    2
S/Total    368    497   230   222   183   1,500
B3 SECURITE ROUTIERE
Matnriet infonnatique                      13                                 13     2
AT et formation                            75     50    50    39             214   3 (c)
S/Total   88      50    50    39       0     227
B4 PROMOTION PME                           100    125   221   221   144    811   3 (b)
B5 ETUDES ET GESTION DU PROJET
Audit annuels                                     20    20    20   20         80   3 (c)
Etudes de faisabilite                     25      25    25    25             100   3 (c)
Etudes techniques et contr6le de TX       362    175   230   185   50   1.002    3 (c)
S/Total    387    220   275   230   70   1,182
Total G6n6ral   1,442   3,400  3,402  3,399  1,997  13,640
Not including contingencies
COMPONENT C: RURAL ROAD REHABILITATION
AND MANAGEMENT
Description
21.    The component comprises two elements: (a) a pilot program of works to
improve and extend the rural road network, and (b) preparation of a strategy to
manage and finance rural roads, plus support to DROA and to the rural communities
in the implementation of the pilot works and maintenance operation, leading to an
approach which can be extended to cover the entire rural road network.
22.    Subcomponent C-1: Rural Road Works (Part Cl of the Credit). A pilot
program of works to rehabilitation and improve about 300 km of non-classified rural
roads would be carried out under DROA's supervision, in close collaboration with the
local communities in three areas already identified (Cobly, Adjohoun and Banikoara),
plus three more areas to be identified during program implementation.
Implementation of this program will lead to finalization of a sound strategy for rural
road maintenance which combines Government support and local community
management.
23.    Subcomponent C-2: Rural Road Management (Part C2 of the Credit).
The purpose of this component is to help DROA and the local communities work out
the best collaborative arrangements for implementing the pilot works program, and



ANNEX C
Page 11 of 16
for a sustainable national rural roads management strategy, including maintenance. It
comprises technical assistance, studies and training. DROA would receive
(a)   short-term assistance to set up and progressively extend, procedures
for programming, managing and financing rural roads, designed to
support the new collaborative approach, and tested under the pilot rural
road improvement program (7.5 months of international consultants, 5
months of local consultants).
Local community partners in the six areas selected for the pilot operation would
receive a program of assistance prepared by NGOs and consultants:
(b)   at the outset, to ensure that all groups interested in the rural road
program in the six pilot areas are adequately briefed and given access
to information about the program, that they are coached through the
steps required to form a legally recognized entity for program
participation purposes, and that they are given the assistance they need
to prepare rural road programs eligible for Government financing; and,
once financing has been approved for rehabilitation of rural roads
under the pilot, to guide them in carrying out the works which will
constitute their counterpart contribution, and in setting up procedures
and methods for carrying out agreed road maintenance programs (96
months of international NGOs, 144 months of local NGOs, 54 months
of consultants, and NGO operating costs).
Implementation
24.   MTPT will implement this component through DROA, in close collaboration
with local community partners responsible for programming and phasing of works on
the roads in their areas, with the assistance of an international NGO and a specialized
consulting firm, and within the framework for coordination of rural road maintenance
called the National Technical Council (Conseil techniqzue national or CTN). The
procedures for identifying, programming and carrying out maintenance on rural roads
will be recorded in a procedural manual subject to IDA's approval
25.   An international NGO with successful experience in dealing with civil works
in rural areas and in advising and coaching rural communities will be hired under the
program following evaluation of at least three NGO candidates acceptable to IDA.
The international NGO selected will be required to define its methodology for
achieving the desired objectives, identify local NGOs capable of acting as local
counterparts and intermediaries, make sure the local NGOs receive necessary training,
and support them through the setup stage of the pilot operation. The contract with
NGOs will include the cost of equipment and overhead for carrying out program
support. A consulting firm with a good track record in rural road rehabilitation and
labor-intensive civil works will be recruited to assist DROA in the definition of
technical standards and techniques for carrying out and supervising rural road



ANNEX C
Page 12 of 16
rehabilitation and maintenance works. The consultant will be selected after evaluating
at least three local consulting firms who are supported by experienced international
consultants.
26.   DROA will provide administrative support (secretariat) for CTN. Works to be
carried out by the local partners will be carried out entirely at their initiative and
under their responsibility. In this effort, the local partners will receive support as
needed from the NGOs and specialized consultant financed under the program.
DROA will supervise the works carried out by local partners in order to ascertain that
the terms of the agreement with them have been respected.
27.   Participation of local communities in rural road rehabilitation and
maintenance works during the program period will be a condition of implementation
of this component. The nature and degree of local participation will be defined during
the preparation of works and maintenance programs. Under no condition will this
local participation be less than that required to ensure: (a) routine manual
maintenance of the local network which has been rehabilitated with Government
funds, and (b) execution of manual works required to prepare for rehabilitation.
28.   Government counterpart funds will be financed by the National Budget.
Funds will be made available by the National Treasure in the Project Account opened
by the Road Fund (see paragraph 19 above).
29.   Tables C-5 and C-6 show a summary of the technical assistance, training and
equipment and a preliminary expenditure plan for this component. Further details
regarding implementation are provided in the Program Implementation Manual
(PIM) drafted during the program's preparation and finalized at negotiation.
The PIM includes annexes defining: (a) detailed procurement procedures; (b)
accounting procedures related to this component; (c) list of performance indicators;
(d) draft terms of references for technical assistance and NGOs' involvement under
this component; (e) draft elligibility criteria for the selection of local partners and of
works included in the programs; and (f) draft procudures for CTN operation and
functioning.
Table C-5: PLANNING DE MISE EN OEUVRE
(en millions FCFA)
1997     1998     1999      2000    TOTAL
Travaux 1ere tranche                        190      219                 409
Travaux 2eme tranche                                  193      225       418
Support ONG                        77        77       77        77       308
AT A la DROA et ONG                50        50       31        31       162
Total     127      317       520       333      1297



ANNEX C
Page 13 of 16
COMPOSANTE C
Table C-6: COUT DETAILLE ET FINANCEMENT
(en millions de FCFA)'
Rubniques                                    Cout Total      Part AID  Gouvmn       Participation des parbonsirs
Crbdit              ocaux (non inclus dans is
cout du projet)
TRAVAUX REHABILITATION (CaIdgorie 1 C)
p-6mmer t,ancho 3 zones (1 50 ks)                                               409              368         41                68
deu-dme tisoehe 3 zones (150 kin)                                               418               376        4                 68
S/Tobl      827               744        8                 136
SUPPORT AUX PARTENAIRES LOCAUX PAR ONG (Cat4gorie 3C)
ONG Intemabonale 96 hom (2 sur 4 ans) a 750 000 FCFANns                         72                72
ONG locale 144 hxm (24 hxm par site) a 250 000 FCFAIrors                         36               36
Acr.at 2 o6hicoles tlot terain a 44 500 000 FCFA                                 89                89
Acrat 6 mobyleltes i 500 000 FCFA                                                3                  3
Fo.cdonnemeot v6hicules 43 750 brn/arnehicule i 131 FCFA                         46                46
Fonctonnnment nobfeftes 12 500 hkn/an/mobylette 4 50 FCFA                        15                15
Fm,s Foncionnmoent 25 millions matenel divers. 5 6 rullonssan                    47                47
SITotal     308               308
SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS (Cat*gorie 3C)
Spec;abstepsteslnuraes. 48 hom (1 sur4 ass) a 750000 FCFA                        36                36
Speca.iste nulgansat-on-oganisa1,on 4 honn epatne i 10 millions FCFA             43                43
et 2 honn local a 1 5 millions FCFA
Sunw,-E,aluahon  7.5 hom consultant expatne i 10 mllons FCFA                     83                83
et S hor loal i 1 5 millions FCFA                         SITotal              182              162                           0
Total inclus dons I* cout du projet  1,297         1,214        8                 136
ENTRETIEN COURANT
(Non nclus dans Is cout du projet)
En/nel,en mecanls6
- pmmee Iranche                                                               105                         10
- de.oerne tranche                                                            105                         10
Entrehen manuel
- p,nmi4ne tranche                                                            75                                             75
deuxenme Iranche                                                             75                                             75
SITotal     360                         21                 180
Not induding contingences
COMPONENT D: URBAN ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
Description
30.    This component comprises two elements: (a) an initial tranche of
infrastructure works and intersection improvements designed to improve traffic
circulation and road safety in the city of Cotonou; (b) support and assistance for (i)
creation and startup of a locally staffed traffic management unit within the local
government entity (Circonscription urbaine de Cotonou or CUC), including training;
(ii) preparation of a traffic management plan for Cotonou; and (iii) planning and



ANNEX C
Page 14 of 16
implementation of a management system for Cotonou's bus and truck stations (gares
routieres).
31.   Subcomponent D-1: Traffic Improvement Works (Parts Dl and D2 of the
Credit). The works proposed for financing under the proposed program correspond
to the priority tranche of works in the traffic and bus/truck station improvement
program. The exact contents of this program will be determined by the traffic and
bus/truck station studies to be prepared with program financing. On the basis of
preliminary studies started under the ongoing urban program and to be completed
during program implementation, these works would include: (a) improvement of ten
(10) intersections located along the main primary roads, of which six will be equipped
with traffic lights; (b) construction of an initial network of cycleways (about 11 km)
along the most heavily traveled primary roadways between Godome and Sobebra; and
(c) renovation of the three main bus/truck stations, whose management would be
handed over to private operators under a concession agreement.
32.   Subcomponent D-2: Support to Build Local Capacity for Urban Traffic
and Parking Management (Parts D3 and D4 of the Credit). The proposed program
would finance:
(a)   support for the creation of an urban traffic management unit (Cellule
de circulation or CC) to handle traffic and parking management for the
city of Cotonou, including the preparation and implementation of a
first traffic plan, and management of parking and of bus/truck stations;
(b)   a program of assistance/advisory/training for the traffic unit to support:
(i) preparation and implementation of the traffic plan; and (ii)
preparation of a study covering the management and renovation of
main bus/truck stations in Cotonou. The program would also finance
preliminary engineering for the priority slice of works to improve
traffic and renovate the stations;
(c)   assistance to define and set up a procedure for consulting with urban
road and transport users in order to facilitate the implementation of the
urban traffic plan and promote road user safety measures (through a
local NGO with community participation);
(d)   equipment and office furniture for the startup of the traffic unit.
Implementation
33.   DROA will implement this component using AGETUR to be hired under a
management agreement for management of small works. MTPT will sign an
assistance agreement (convention d 'assistance) with SERHAU-SEM covering
monitoring and coordination of: (a) the setup and management of the traffic unit for a
period not to exceed two years, sufficient to complete the study for a traffic and



ANNEX C
Page 15 of 16
bus/road station management plan; and (b) support to the traffic unit (CC) in the
preparation of this plan. DROA will be responsible for engineering studies, works
procurement and supervision, and traffic light equipment purchase required for works
to implement the traffic plan under subcomponent D-1. MTPT will sign a separate
management agreement with AGETUR covering engineering and works to construct
cycleways, to renovate three bus/truck stations (b and c of subcomponent D- I), and to
make minor traffic improvement on primary roadways.
34.   The traffic management unit (CC) will receive technical support at startup for
the purpose of: (a) training for its own staff and for staff selected from other public
and private entities to develop local expertise in urban traffic engineering and
management; (b) assisting CC with the preparation of a study to produce a traffic
structure plan; (c) assisting CC with the preparation of a study to produce an action
plan for the management and renovation of bus/truck stations, which the City would
then be able to implement, and which would increase income earned by these stations
through private concession arrangements. This up front assistance would be followed
up by short-term consultant visits on demand of the CC head.
35.   Traffic signalization equipment (traffic lights) to be procured under the
proposed program for installation on the primary network will become the property of
the city once the equipment has been approved and commissioned, and the city will
manage and maintain it. Updating signal synchronization patterns will be the
responsibility of the traffic unit (CC).
36.   Government counterpart will be financed by National Budget through two
project accounts opened by both AGETUR and the Road Fund (see paragraph 19
above). National Treasure will deposit the necessary funds in these accounts.
37.   Tables C-7 and C-8 show a summary of the technical assistance, training and
equipment and a preliminary expenditure plan for this component. Further details on
implementation are provided in the Program Implementation Manual (PIM)
drafted during program preparation and finalized at negotiation. The PIM
includes annexes defining: (a) detailed procurement procedures; (b) accounting
procedures related to this component; (c) list of performance indicators; (d) draft
terms of references for technical assistance, NGOs and SERHAU support; (e)
functioning procedures for traffic management unit and CTP, and for the preparation
of the works program; and (f) draft convention between MTPT and AGETUR.



ANNEX C
Page 16 of 16
COMPOSANTE D
Table C-7: COUT DETAILLE ET FINANCEMENT
(en millions de FCFA)
CATEGORIE                            RUBRIQUES                                             COUT DETAILLE
Quantit6s     |        i        C
Travaux et equipements                                                                           1289
1 (b)             Amenagement de 10 carrefours (DROA)                           10               30             300
1 (b)             Equipements 6 feux de signalisabon (DROA)                     6                20             120
1 (d)             Amenagement 6km pistes cyclables (AGETUR)                     6                32             193
1 (d)             Amenagement trois gares routieres (AGETUR)                    3                225            676
MOD et Controle des Travaux                                                                      161
3 (d)             Etudes et supervision travaux   - AGETUR                    10% tx             893             80
3 (c)                                                - DROA                   10% tx             420             41
4                 Remunration MOD                                             4,5% tx            893             40
3 (c)          Etudes, AT et ONG                                                                                346
Assistance Plan de circulation                            10 mois              11             160
50 mois             1
Etude gestion des gares                                       1                60             60
Enquetes et suivi ONG local                                   1                60              60
Etudes techniques                                           5% tx              66              66
2              Equipements                                                                                       30
Cellule circulation                                     2 ordinateurs          7              14
materiel bureau        23              16
TOTAL GENERA                                              1826
Table C-8: PLANNING DE MISE EN OEUVRE
(en millions de FCFA)
1997         1998        1999       2000        2001          TOTAL
Travaux                                               437          420         432                                    1289
- DROA                                            140          140         140                                    420
- AGETUR                                          297          280         292                                    869
Etudes techniques et supervision                       67           27          27                                    121
- DROA                                             24            8           9                                     41
-AGETUR                                            43           19          18                                     80
MOD par AGETUR                                         14           13          13                                     40
ONG                                                    20           10          10          10         10               60
Etudes et AT                                          168           30          30          30         30             286
Equipements                                            30            0           0           0          0              30
Total         734          600         512          40         40             1826
FonctionnementCC(AchargeCV)                            12           12          12          12         12              80



ANNEXD
Page I of 2
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
1.    An assessment of the environmental impact of the program was carried out
during program implementation, based on field visits of the road networks (3,800 km
of roads in all ecological areas of the country), consultations with rural and urban
residents affected by road rehabilitation initiatives, and contacts with key administrative
bodies. Negative impacts which road works might have were defined, and guidelines
were prepared which would apply to all works in the program. Guidelines define
either measures for limiting negative impacts which were identified, or methods for
assessing such negative impacts and defining an appropriate response where
conditions are more complex. These guidelines have been prepared within the
framework of the National Environmental Plan (NEP), and are designed to facilitate
consistent action by all entities involved in program implementation.
2.    Since no new roads will be opened up under this program, the expected
environmental impacts will be milder than in the case of new roads. In addition, the
program will encourage labor-intensive road maintenance activities, which are
generally more environmentally friendly than highly mechanized activities. On
interurban road sections, potential environmental impacts and the accompanying
mitigation measures are as follows:
(a)   Laterite quarries that are opened up along the roads to obtain road
surfacing materials, if not rehabilitated after use, could induce erosion
and stagnating waters. Roughly 300,000 m3 of materials are extracted
annually from about 70 such sites, covering a total of about 30 ha. The
rehabilitation of these areas is technically straightforward and easily
carried out. Environmental guidelines require the restoration of such
quarries by restoring the sites or transforming them into water
reservoirs that may greatly benefit local residents.
(b)   Wetlands may be harmed by road crossing, particularly when road
drainage infrastructure is ineffective. This may lead to an imbalance of
fragile ecosystems, loss of agricultural land used during dry seasons,
and eutrophication of certain water bodies. The five-year priority
transport program includes repair and maintenance of all drainage
works (around 3000), which will result in the restoration of the
original water transfers upstream and downstream that naturally
regulate wetlands.
(c)   The drainage of roads (runoff waters) sometimes leads to the
accelerated formation of gullies and to erosion alongside the roads. It
has generally been observed that existing drainage infrastructure
carries water to areas with adequate vegetative cover and that erosion



ANNEXD
Page 2 of 2
is generally not exacerbated by road drainage. In cases where a
problem is seen to occur, the guidelines include provisions for
improving the downstream portion of road drainage systems..
(d)   Atmospheric pollution linked to road rehabilitation and maintenance is
very low and negligible compared to other sources of air pollution
such as general passenger and freight vehicle traffic. The main
problem at present is the dust generated by major rehabilitation works,
which is easily controlled by frequent watering of construction sites, a
method already widely practiced by road construction companies.
(e)    The destruction of human habitat is rarely a problem. In the few cases
where households had to be evicted because of road works.
compensation measures were deemed acceptable by residents, who
were able to relocate easily within their original community. In any
case, displacement of residents will not take place under this program.
3.    In the framework of the implementation of the NEP, Benin has recently
created a National Environmental Agency and prepared an environmental law that
includes requirements for environmental impact assessments, for sectoral
environmental guidelines and institutional coordination. In this respect, the program
will be a leader, since it will propose the first set of sectoral environmental guidelines
developed in Benin.
4.    The guidelines include a conceptual framework for undertaking the necessary
environmental impact assessments and the corresponding mitigation plans related to
future road rehabilitation and maintenance works. Environmental requirements will
be incorporated into the technical specifications of works contracts.
5.    In urban and peri-urban zones, potential environmental impacts and mitigation
measures are as follows:
(a)    The limited infiltration surface that characterizes urban areas increases
the risks of flooding. Traffic improvement works under the program
will be designed with adequate attention to the provision of proper
drainage infrastructure.
(b)   Atmospheric pollution issues are more serious in urban areas due to
the density of traffic, the large numbers of people affected, and the
limited airflow that characterizes urban areas. Even more care is
generally taken by road construction companies than outside the cities
in order to minimize dust displacement.
(c)    Habitat destruction and relocation of city dwellers will generally be
avoided in the program. Past experience in Benin has shown that when
dwellings have to be destroyed, the levels of compensation are realistic
and generally satisfactory to evicted households.



ANNEX E
Page I of 16
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
PORT COMPONENT AND ROAD COMPONENT
This annex summar izes the results ol' the economic analysis for the work included in the port
component A and for all works included in the priority road program, with detailed justification for
works on the earth network which are proposed for IDA financing. Details of the economic analysis
are in the Program files. At the end of the annex, there is a listing of all road works included in the
priority program as of July 1995, including traffic, length, costs, internal rate of return where
available, donor financing, and year in program (see Table E- 10) 'IThe phasing and financing of the
priority program for all subsectors. and the selection of elements for proposed IDA financing are
presented in the SAR, Chapter 3 (paras. 3.3 and 3.6). The economic justification for proposed IDA
components C and D is presented in the SAR. Chapter 4 (paras. 4.5 and 4.6).
PORT COMPONENT
(COMPONENT A)
1.     Methodology for Economic Justification. Under the present operating
conditions, the port of Cotonou should reach its saturation level (70 percent of the
quays occupation rate) at 2'.2'5 million tons in 1998, based on a realistic growth
scenario. The port component of the Project includes implementing reforms necessary
to allow efficient use of infrastructure to achieve higher productivity levels similar to
those of neighboring ports. If these performance objectives are reached, the capacity
of the port of Cotonou would increase to 2.6 million tons port traffic in 2001,
assuming a growth rate of traffic or capacity of 4 percent per year. Past experience
has shown that in the case of congestion in the port of Cotonou, maritime companies
use the port of Lome as an alternative rather than putting up with long waiting times.
The basic assumption used for the economic justification corresponds to the
saturation of the port of Cotonou in 1998 at 2.25 million tons and the second
assumption includes the proposed Project with 2.6 million tons in 2001. The
quantified benefits of the Project include: (a) savings on transport costs for
merchandise by road from Lome to Cotonou . (b) avoidance of the economic loss
resulting from the loss of revenues by Beninese public and private port operators; and
(c) savings on traffic and maintenance costs for port handling operations.
2.     Savings on Transport Costs for Merchandise by Road from Lome to
Cotonou. The total economic cost for the transport of merchandise by road, from
Lome to Cotonou between 1998 and 2001, is evaluated at 879 million CFA franc
(1995 terms with a 12 percent discount rate). Distance for the said transport is 150
km; transport is done by 25-ton trucks; 50 percent of the merchandise transferred to
Lome will be returned to Cotonou by road; economic cost for operating a 25-ton truck
is estimated at 500 CFA franc per kmi with an empty return to Lome assumed.



A NNEX E
Page 2 of 16
3.    Savings on the Loss of Revenues by Beninese Port Operators. The
economic loss of the transfer of 942,000 tons of merchandise to Lome, between 1998
and 2001, is estimated at 3,357 million CFA franc (1995 terms with a 12 percent
discount rate). The assumptions used for this calculation are. as follows: PAC gross
margin during the period is estimated at 5,569 million CFA franc; SOBEMAP gross
margin during the period is estimated at 5,600 million CFA franc; and total gross
margin per ton of merchandise is estimated at 5.73 CFA franc. or 2.86 CFA franc for
PAC and 2.87 CFA franc for SOBEMAP. On this basis losses of gross margin for
PAC and SOBEMAP from 1998 to 2001 total 3,358 million CFA franc. Loss in gross
margin of private operators is unknown and has not been included in the analysis.
4.    Savings of Traffic and Maintenance Costs for Port Handling Operations.
The total amount of traffic cost savings within the port facilities, between 1998 and
2001, is estimated at 670 million CFA franc (1995 terms with a 12 percent discount
rate). This amount is made up of the following: 594 million CFA franc for the
maintenance of port handling equipment and 76 million CFA franc for improving
road infrastructure within the port. The assumptions used are as follows:
rehabilitation of quay edges; reorganization of port area; and improvement of port
operations management. These are estimated to lead to a 17 percent reduction in
operating costs for vehicles and port handling equipment.
5.    Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis For the economic analysis,
three cases have been considered: (a) the base case using the above assumptions; (b) a
case with a reduced port traffic growth rate; and (c) a case with a reduced productivity
increase. Based on the above quantified benefits, the economic rate of return for the
base case is estimated at 250 percent. This economic calculation takes into account
the flow of investment expenses and benefits up to 2001, given in Table E-1. The net
present value of the investments in 1995 terms with a 12 percent discount rate is
estimated at 3,914 million CFA franc. If port traffic grows at 3 percent rather than 4.5
percent assumed in the base case, the ERR falls to 12 percent and the net present
value to 0. If productivity were only half of that assumed for the base case, port
capacity would be limited to 2.45 million tons leading to the congestion of the port at
the end of 1999 instead of end 2001. Under this assumption, the economic rate of
return would be reduced to 36 percent instead of 250 percent. Table E- I gives the
assumptions and the results of the economic analysis for each case, and Table E-2
gives the flow of investment expenses and benefits in the base case.



ANNEXE
Page 3 of 16
Table E-1: Assumptions and Results of the Economic Analysis
(in millions CFA franc)
Assumptions              Costs   Benefits     Net    ERR
Present
Value
Base Case      Port traffic growth: 4%             1200      4900       3700    250%
Port congestion: 2.6 M tons in 2001
Reduced        Port traffic growth: 3%             1200      1200        0       12%
traffic growth
Reduced        Port traffic growth: 4%             1200      1640       413     36%
productivity    Port congestion: 2.45 M tons in 1999
Table E-2: Base Case - Flow of Investment Expenses and Benefits
COSTS                                     BENEFITS
_________________ I       (in millions CFA franc)
Year    Investist   Transport Cost    Savings on  Savings  Gross     TOTAL    Net
Lomd/Cotonou  transport cost in  maintenance   margin PAC   Present
port      SOBEMAP       &                 Value
SOBEMAP
1996     -446         0             0            0           0         0      -446
1997     -403         0             0            0           0         0      -403
1998     -368         58            19          155        223        457      89
1999     -366         179           19          150         685       1034    608
2000      0           293           19          147        1117       1575    1575
2001     354          349           18          141        1332       1840    2194
Total    1228         879           76          594        3357       4906    3677
FIVE-YEAR PRIORITY ROAD PROGRAM
(COMPONENT B)
PAVED ROADS
Construction and Rehabilitation
6.     Paved road works included in the five-year priority program fall into two
categories: (a) new works (see heading 1.1 in Table E-7 at end of annex), involving
(i) paving of existing interurban earth road sections, plus additional lanes for the
Cotonou-Porto Novo highway, (ii) interurban road safety works at high accident
locations, (iii) new urban highways in Cotonou, and (iv) urban traffic improvement
works in Cotonou; and (b) rehabilitation of badly deteriorated sections of the paved
interurban network (see heading 1.2). Cost benefit analyses for new paving and
rehabilitation (a-i and b) were carried out by consultants financed by other donors,
using HDM. New urban highway construction (a-iii) was analyzed by consultants



ANNEX E
Page 4 of 16
financed by other donors using the VOC module from HDM, along with other
economic models tailored to urban conditions. Economic analysis of works under the
two categories proposed for IDA financing, safety works (a-ii) and urban road works
(a-iv), will be carried out during program implementation to finalize specific works to
be carried out, following further study of high accident spots and preparation of a
traffic plan for Cotonou.
7.    All traffic and vehicle operating cost data used by consultants was provided by
BGR or worked out in consultation with them; the estimates are considered sound.
Analyses carried out during the 1992 preparation of the initial priority program for
paved roads were adjusted for the 1994 devaluation. Construction design and costs for
paved road works were based on technical standards for pavements developed during
the strategy preparation. Double surface treatments, commonly used in the past, are to
be avoided in favor of cement-asphalt base and sand-asphalt surfacing, which offer
the triple advantage of (a) lower cost, (b) lower maintenance requirements, (c) use of
local materials (lower foreign exchange requirement). The results of the economic
analysis of paved road construction and rehabilitation are shown in Table E- I1
8.    Three sections of earth roads to be paved are included in the priority program
at Government's insistence despite their ERR. Of these, one I I -km section
(Natitingou-Porga) is required to complete the paved western route from Parakou to
Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso). Two other sections totalling over 200 km (Savalou-
Djougou-Ouake) would create an alternative paved itinerary for Cotonou-
Ouagadougou. branching off further south than Parakou. Since traffic levels are not
currently expected to justify these investments during the 1995-2000 period, they
were left in the program at the lowest priority level, including only a quarter of their
costs. Incorporation of these investments in their totality will be reconsidered at such
time as their economic justification can be established and after completing other
higher priority investments, including all periodic maintenance.
Maintenance
9.    Periodic maintenance alternatives for paved roads (see heading 1.3) were
analyzed by BGR staff with support from short-term consultants financed by IDA,
using HDM. Operating cost functions for each of seven vehicle types were calculated
directly by the HDM, whose VOC module incorporates variations in VOC elements
according to road conditions as defined by roughness coefficients (IRI). Cost-benefit
analysis compares an annual maintenance cost stream to a stream of benefits in the
form of road user savings due to improved road conditions over the base case
situation. A base case of routine maintenance only was compared with three periodic
maintenance alternatives initially defined for analysis: (a) a base case of shoulder
maintenance (cantonnage) only (ALTO); (b) shoulder maintenance plus surface
patching (point a temps) (ALT1); (c) shoulder maintenance plus periodic surface
sealing treatment, once 30 percent of road surface is lost to cracks, potholes or
stripping (ALT2); and (d) shoulder maintenance plus cement-asphalt or sand-asphalt
treatment, once the IRI reaches the value of 5 (difficult passage during rainy season)
(ALT3). Analysis showed on the last two choices as the most economic ones.



ANNEX E
Page 5 of 16
10.   Of the itineraries included in the priority periodic maintenance program,
four have an ERR < 12. The ERR of the best alternative for each itinerary is given in
Table E- I 1. Two itineraries (Dassa-Savalou and Bohicon-Parakou) despite their ERR
below 12%, have been included in the priority program because of the extreme
fragility of these road surfaces. The reasons for this are as follows: First, the ERRs are
misleading because HDM does not reflect the rapid degradation of fragile road
pavements, such as those with granular bases and water-permeable surface treatments
on a clay foundation, typical of Benin. Second, when in fact such roads are not
maintained, they deteriorate catastrophically, once the first potholes appear. Third,
immediate investment in periodic maintenance is an economic alternative to waiting
for the road surfaces to fail and then rebuilding them. Last but not least, the above
economic analysis was carried out assuming a 1995 startup date for these works,
when in fact financing has yet to be identified for 80 percent of them are shown in
Table 1.3 of SAR. Since it is more than likely that they will not in fact start up until
1997, it is most likely that by that time, surfaces will have deteriorated to a point
where ERRs will be at least 12 percent by then. The fact is that periodic maintenance
is a necessary component of any economically viable long-term road investment
strategy, whether or not the HDM results indicate it in this specific case. Government
has recognized this necessity by giving periodic maintenance first priority in the road
program, regardless of the low ERRs.
EARTH ROADS
Methodology
11.   An optimal maintenance strategy for the unpaved road network was designed
using a locally tailored approach, based on generalizing from empirical evidence of
road deterioration at given traffic and maintenance levels, based on maintenance
experience and observations of earth road conditions in Benin and neighboring
countries over the last few years. For example, regravelling frequencies for periodic
maintenance were defined based on local experience with different traffic and service
levels. The main objective was to optimize the allocation of road maintenance
resources, in order to maximize the number of itineraries that are practicable. Thus
maintenance activities must be tailored to the traffic levels, terrain and slope, and
weather conditions obtaining for each section to be maintained, if service levels are to
optimize the overall balance between user cost savings and maintenance costs. The
optimal maintenance strategy is that which minimizes the present value of the net cost
of maintenance, with net cost on a given section defined as the difference between the
cost of routine plus periodic maintenance activities, and the user cost savings for
vehicles using the road section; the present value of the annual stream of net costs is
calculated using a country discount rate of 12%.
Cost Data
12.   Vehicle Operating Costs. Base operating cost functions for each of seven
vehicle types calculated by the HDM were adjusted using visually determined



ANNEX E
Page 6 of 16
roughness coefficients (see Program Implementation Manual (PIM)for details).
Operating cost data collected during the 1992 strategy preparation reflect the impact
of the 1994 CFA franc devaluation, with correction coefficients ranging from 1.3 for
labor to 1.8 for vehicle purchase and tire costs. Fuel was shadow-priced at CFA franc
120 per liter for gas-oil and CFA franc 140 for gasoline (Government fixed pump
price in Benin, CFA franc 165), taking into account widespread use of fraudulently
imported fuel.
13.   Cost of Works. All costs are based on private contract execution (not force
account). Cost of works were calculated net of direct and indirect taxes as of April
1995. Total works costs include preliminary and final engineering, works,
supervision, and physical contingencies. Data used are those collected during
preparation of the strategy report in 1992 and thereafter from contracts awarded. Data
from contracts awarded before January 1994 were corrected to reflect the impact of
the devaluation of the CFA franc. The economic cost of periodic maintenance
includes all necessary works to prepare road surfaces, that is, regravelling (15 cm)
plus the initial grading of the roadbed, total cost of which is estimated at CFA franc
4,750 per cubic meter.
Optimal Maintenance Strategy
14.   The steps involved in defining an optimal maintenance policy for the national
earth road network are to determine: (a) the desired average service level to be
maintained between periodic maintenance activities; (b) the sequence of routine and
periodic maintenance activities; and (c) the frequencies of these activities. These steps
are summarized below, with details available in the PIM.
15.   Definition of Service Levels on Maintainable Earth Roads. Five service
levels ranging from excellent to very poor were identified, each of which corresponds
to a road condition as described by a measurable indicator, in this case, roughness.
The five service levels (niveau de service or NS) and the corresponding roughness
values are as follows: NS5, excellent (IRI = 4 to 6); NS4, good (IRI = 6 to 10); NS3,
fair (IRI = 10 to 16); NS2, poor (IRI = 16 to 20); NS1, very poor (IRI = 20 to 24). The
current service level of each earth road section was assessed during program
preparation using BGR methods based on a pragmatic field approach developed by
OECD. The known functional relationship between service level and vehicle
operating costs, as established by HDM, then also gives the relationship between IRI
and VOC. Roads rated at IRI > 24 are considered impassable and are dealt with under
the trouble spots category.
16.   Impact of Maintenance on Service Level. Maintenance of earth roads
includes: (a) tasks which do not vary with service levels, that is, manual routine
shoulder and drain clearing (cantonnage); and (b) tasks which have an impact on
service levels, such as routine patching (point a temps) and periodic regravelling.
Rainfall has an impact on manual routine maintenance needs, and soil sensitivity to
water has an impact on regravelling needs. Data accumulated during regular network
inspections over the last few years has led to the definition of the impact on earth road



ANNEX E
Page 7 of 16
roughness, and hence on service levels, of periodic gravelling and of different routine
maintenance approaches at different traffic levels, during the intervals between
periodic regravelling. The results are shown in Table E-5 (minimum routine
maintenance requirements to hold a given service level). and Table E-6 ( minimum
frequency of regravelling in years required to hold a given service level over a longer
period of time).
17.   Optimizing net maintenance cost. For each traffic level, the most economic
service level to maintain has been determined. For each traffic level, a curve is
generated of overall economic cost per km (net present value of VOC plus
maintenance cost, over 15 years at 12 percent) as a function of road maintenance
costs, at each service level (see Graph E-12). The graph shows an example of results
based on truck/car modal split of 10/90 and one on 30/70. The resulting determination
of optimal maintenance activities by traffic, service levels, and modal split is shown
in Table E-7. In the short to medium term, service level 4 (good) will be the highest
service level on the most heavily traveled earth roads. Using the service
level/maintenance activities relationship developed in the preceding paragraphs, total
maintenance costs were estimated for the entire earth network. Total estimated annual
routine and periodic maintenance program costs are shown in Tables H-8 and H-9.
The total annual cost of an economically optimal earth road maintenance program on
all 2,066 km of the MTPT earth network is about CFA franc 9.3 billion for periodic
maintenance during the next five years and CFA franc 1.6 billion per year for routine
maintenance..
Elimination of Trouble Spots and Drainage Repairs
18.   Spot Improvement on Trouble Spots (points critiques). The nature of the
national earth road network requires that all sections be passable at all times of year.
Network structure is such that reasonable alternative routings or detours simply do
not exist for 20 of the 57 sectio is, equivalent to 26 percent of the total network
length. The remaining sectors either carry more than 40v/d or do not have reasonable
alternative detours and serve sous-prefectures. From an economic point of view,
breakdowns on these priority roads have an adverse impact on agricultural production
and trade. On 28 sections, representing around 50 percent of the existing network,
traffic is currently slowed or blocked either year-round or during the rains, due to at
least one trouble spot per section, that is, a muddy section due either to poor soil
quality or to a drainage structure problem. The severity of trouble spots has been
categorized by degree of passability (niveau de praticabilite or NP): (1) permanently
blocked; (2) blocked during rainy season, difficult rest of year; (3) blocked during
rainy season, passable rest of year; (4) difficult passage; (5) difficult passage during
rainy season; and (6) smooth passage. For the entire network to be passable to an
acceptable degree, trouble spots in categories (1), (2), and (3) must be eliminated. The
priority program includes all 28 trouble spot sections (see heading 2.1), and all of
these are included in the proposed IDA program.
19.   Bridge and Drainage Repairs (ouvrages d'art et hydrauliques). There are
around 600 bridges or drainage structures requiring repair on 54 sections of the earth



ANNEX E
Page 8 of 16
network (60 percent of network lengtlh), ranging from minor repair to complete
reconstruction. This category of works helps prevent future trouble spots, as the
sections involved remain fairly passable (NP 4 to 6); all sections requiring such
repairs with serious problems (NP I to 3) were included in the trouble spots category.
If these additional works are not carried out, the spots in question will without any
doubt become the trouble spots of the future. Of the 54 sections, 21 are the nearest to
becoming critical and are programmed for 1996-98. and repairs on these sections are
therefore included in the proposed IDA program, along with financing for all of the
trouble spots.
20.    Economic Justification. - Base Case and Sensitivity. ERR of all
rehabilitation works included in the priority program (elimination of trouble spots and
rehabilitation of drainage structures) as well as routine and periodic maintenance have
been calculated for each road sections and three cases: (a) base case with road
maintenance corresponding to the optimum as defined above and assuming that the
traffic on the road sections which are currently affected by major trouble spots will
increase to 48 v/d after rehabilitation; (b) a case where the maintenance would be the
same as in the base case, but the traffic will increase to only by half (25 v/d) on the
sections in very poor condition; and (c) a case where road maintenance resources will
remain at the same level as in 1994 (CFA franc 1.7 billion per year compared to 2.7
billion in the base case). Investment in each case with program include the execution
of works of the three above for spot improvement, rehabilitation of drainage structure
and periodic maintenance.
21.    Situation without Project. Assumptions for the evolution of the network
without Project have been used for the economic justification with respect to the
expenses on earth roads, and are detailed below. In the scenario without Project, no
investment would be made. Only the manual maintenance will be carried out to
maintain basic traffic on the network despite a rapid and sustained degradation of the
level of service and road blockages. The levels of service and their evolution, in the
scenario with no Project, are presented in Table E-3.
Table E-3: Situation without Project
C 00iurret eo:Leiveiofi9t Ser:viceE:  ;EYQ1Uti  of Laeve Qf Servit Swith h:n Spot Impr vement>, n;oEtidS
-: j   - ;-   - if -  -Reh hia itatn of flr -ngeS $rtures no     t       0veli (o
i- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~. .EEE .ES .:E:.  .::  . .. .E: .EER  .. ..ES .: .E::E5  .E#   :,  .... ..::    .: ....... L..._   .  ....    ...    ....
Roads with two rainy seasons  Roads with one rainy season
*  NS1 on 470 km  of roads  *  NSI continue on the 470 km  *  NSI  continues  on  the
currently cut                 cut during the rainy seasons  470km
NS2     on   roads   which .   NS I over 2 years on the .   NS. I over 3 years on the
necessitate spot improvement  roads  that  needs  spot      roads  that  need  spot
improvement                   improvement
*  NS3 on the network with  .  NSI 1/3.  f.the.time.between      . NSI 1/20 f the time between
traffic <150 v/day            two regravellings (3 years    two regravellings (4 years
max.)                         max.)
*NS4 on the network with a
traffic > 150_v/day_________________________________



ANNEX E
Page 9 of 16
22.   It has been accepted that the evolution of the levels of degradation listed
above are valid for a percentage of 20% of heavy trucks. The time lag to reach the
levels LSI has also been modified as presented above, in a linear fashion between the
following extremities: 20% reduction in the values of the time lag for 10% of heavy
trucks and a 20% increase in the values for 30% of heavy trucks.
23.   Economic Rate of Return in the Base Case. The assumptions and the results
of the economic analysis of the program for each of the three above cases are
summarized in Table E-10. The results of the economic analysis for each itinerary
and for the above three scenarios are given in Table-E-4 and summarized below.
This table presents the length and traffic for each of the 61 road sections: (a) the cost
of investment and periodic maintenance; (b) the present costs (12 percent discount
rate) for elimination of trouble spots and rehabilitation of drainage structures; (c) the
benefits resulting from the execution of works, which are savings on traffic costs,
deducted routine maintenance costs compared to the solution without Project; (d) the
net present value for the base case; and (e) the internal rate of return of the two
sensitivity cases. The economic analysis for the base case shows the following: (a) the
maintenance strategy resulting from optimizing the above, presents a high global
economic returm; (b) 6 itineraries present an internal rate of return inferior to 12
percent. However, knowing thiat 5 out of these do not offer any alternative itinerary, a
return has been computed on these sections reducing works to those necessary to
enable traffic all year around but with difficult passages. In this case, only one
section. (Datori-Cobli) presents an economic return inferior to 12 percent. Sensitivity
to the level of routine maintenance is very high.
24.   Sensitivity Analysis. Should traffic increase only by half (25 v/d instead of 48
v/d assumed for the base case) on the sections currently in poor or very poor
conditions, the ERR for the overall program will remain very high but two additional
sections will have an ERR below 12 percent. Therefore, the program execution on
these sections will start by spot improvement, execution of the rest of the program
(rehabilitation of drainage structures and periodic maintenance), being subject to an
actual increase of traffic after the spot improvement works have been completed.
25.   The reduction of the routine maintenance budget to the level of 1994 (CFA
franc 1.7 billion) would result to an ERR below 12 percent on 42 sections. The
investments in elimination of trouble spots. in rehabilitation of drainage structures
and in periodic maintenance on these 42 sections will be conditioned to the actual
execution of the maintenance programs at the required levels of service (CFA franc
2.7 billion per year). In the case when budgets are reduced, a rehabilitation works and
maintenance approach on these sections will be considered and thus the program
defined in the proposed program be redefined.



ANNEX E
Page 10 of 16
Table E-4: Base Case and Sensitivity Cases
Assumptions and Results of Economic Analysis
(in billion CFA franc)
Cases               Assumptions            Cost    Benefits    NPV            ERR
- traffic measured on roads with
service level above 3 (fair)
- traffic 48 v/d on roads with  16.641   59.041    42.400       103% maxi
Base Case    service level below 3                                         302% mini -8%
6 sections below
12%
- routine maintenance
corresponding to the economic
optimum (billion CFA franc 2.7
per year)
- traffic measured on roads with
service level above 3 (fair)
Reduced by   - traffic 25 v'd on roads with  16.641   54.990     38.349       98 % maxi
Half Traffic   service level below 3                                        302% mini -2%
on Road in                                                                 8 sections below
Poor                                                                          12%
Condition
- routine maintenance
corresponding to the economic
optimum
- traffic same as in the base case  16.641   19.205  2.564    22% maxi 56%
Reduced                                                                      mini -13%
Routine                                                                     42 sections
Maintenancebeo12
- routine maintenance remains
at 1994 level (CFA franc 1 .7
billion per year compared to
CFA franc 2.7 billion per year)



ANNEXE
Page 11 of 16
Table E-5: Benin: Earth Road Routine Maintenance Required by Service Level
Service Levels and
Maintenance Activities                 Traffic Levels (vehicles per day)
< 10      10 - 50    50 - 100    100 - 200   > 200
Service Level NSI (Very poor)
Frequency of light grading/year           0           0       0     0%   0      0%        0
Heavy grading (% per year)               0%          0%         lOm3        103m         0%
. t,      ~ ~~~3                    3           3       ]ml                         3
Emergency repairs (m  /km)               15 m       15 m                                10 m
Service Level NS2 (Poor)
Frequency of light grading/year          0.25         1       3    10%   4    10%   5   10%
Heavy grading (% per year) Emergency      5%         10%        1i m3       1i          lo  3
3                         ~~~~               ~~~ ~ ~~~~              ~~~3 3 lo]Olo
repairs (m  'km)                         15 m       15 m
Service Level NS3 (Fair)
Frequency of light grading/year          0.5          2       5    15%   7    15%   8   20%
Heavy grading (% per year) Emergency     10%         15%        10 m        1 n3        10 m3
3                                   3           3
repairs (m /km)                          15 m       15 m
Service Level NS4 (Good)
Frequency of light grading/year           1.5         4       7    20%   9    20%        10
Heavy grading (% per year) Emergency     20%         20%        l 3n            3       20%
3                                              3-      lo           lom 
repairs (m /km)                          15 m       15 m                                10 m
Service Level NS5 (Excellent)
Frequency of light grading/year           3           6           10          12         16
Heavy grading (% per year) Emergency     30%         30%        30%          30%      30%   10
3                         ~     ~     ~ ~ ~~~           ~ ~        ~~3  3  -  3  3  3
repairs (m  /km)                         1 5m       15 m         Om         lOm          m
Table E-6: Benin: Earth Road Periodic Maintenance Required by Service Level
(Frequency of regravelling in number of years)
Traffic Levels (vehicles per day)
Service Levels                      < 10       10 - 50    50 - 100     100 - 200      >200
Service Level NSI (Very poor)     14 years    14 years    14 years      14 years     14 years
Service Level NS2 (Poor)             14          14          14            14           12
Service Level NS3 (Fair)             14          14          12            9            8
Service Level NS4 (Good)             14          14          9             7            6
Service Level NS5 (Excellent)        14          10          6             5            4



ANNEX E
Page 12 of 16
Table E-7: Benin: Earth Road Service Levels and Economically Optimal
Routine and Periodic Maintenance Activities
Traffic and Service Levels
Routine and Periodic                       TO       Ti         T2          T3         T4
Maintenance Activities                    < 10     10 - 50    50 - 100    100 - 200    >200
NS 3     NS 4      NS 4-5*    NS 4-5*    NS 4-5*
Routine Maintenance
Frequency of light grading/year           0.5        4          7          10         12
Heavy grading (% of length/year)          10%       20%        20%        10%        10%
3,       3          3           3          3
Emergency works (point a temps; m Ikm)   15 m      15 m       10 m        10 m       10 m
Clearing of roadside vegetation          1.5-2.5   1.5-2.5    1.5-2.5    1.5-2.5    1.5-2.5
(cantonnage; no./year)*
Mechanized drain clearing (no./year)*    1.5-2.0   1.5-2.0    1.5-2.0    1.5-2.0    1.5-2.0
Periodic Maintenance
Frequency of regravelling (in years)       14        14         9         5 - 7      4 - 6
* NS4 when truck'car modal split is 10/90, NS5 when it is 30/70.
Table E-8: Benin: Estimated Annual Routine Maintenance Cost for Earth Roads (millions CFA franc)
Type of Routine Maintenance Works
Works quantities and costs   Light      Heavy     Patching    Drainage   Roadside     TOTAL
grading     grading   (point az   clearing    clearing
temps)                (cantonnage)
Quantities                  12,500 km    400 km   25.800 m    3,200 km    3,400 km
Total cost, routine          660 M       140 M     120 M       150 M       540 M       1,610 M
Table E-9: Benin: Estimated Annual Periodic Maintenance Cost for Earth Roads:
Regravelling Requirements (millions CFA franc)
Traffic Levels
Works quantities and costs    TMJA 1996          TMJA 1996         TMJA 1996        TOTAL
< 50 veh/day    > 50 < 100 veh/day   > 100 veh/day
Length to be regravelled        428 km             555 km            437 km         1,420 km
Quantities                    385,000 m3         583,000 m3        589,000 m3     1,557,000 m3
Total cost, periodic           2,300 M            3,500 M           3,500 M         9,300 M



ANNEX E
Page 13 of 16
Table E-10: Economic Justification of the Earth Road Work Program
Base Case                  iLCase2    IlCase 3
hTnffic  Length   EPC       OA    Rech  Total | Invest. a)   Benefits  ' [ NPV c            RI %         RI %        IRI %
Carrefour (Zian) - Igofo           402        12             '47    '82       (       129          1,970         1841         302         302          56
Akpro - Adjohoun                    354       25             '32   '168               200          3.576        3.376         392         392          62
Lokossa-Deve-Aplahoue              214       36               25'  '244       (      240           2.651        2411          184         184         45
Zuunhoue - Athiemre (Front Togo)    214        7                     '49              44            514          471          199         199          47
Ouidah - Allada                    209        35              '6  '238                218          2,507        2 299         193         193          46
Naitiongou -Carefour RN7           207        2  =            11    '15       (       23            136          113          81          31           11
Ouake (Frootiere) - Djuugou         162       37            '254   '249               449           1,986        1.537        62          62           3
Okoulaosse (Lim Pro.) -Bassila      192      53               75   '356       (       385          3365         2.980         123         123          34
Savalo - Okoutaosse (Urn Pr)        192      88             -189   '597       0       702          5596         4,895         112         112          32
Tchetr - Savalou                    171      38              145   '258               360          2.198         1,838        as          95
Parakou - Binassi                  209       25                     '1i       0       151          1.706         1,555        165         165         39
Nikki- Ch,candou                   161       22              '27   '152               179          1.298         1.109        100         100          30
N'Dal - Nikk,                       139      55       98    '274   '374      98       746          3 201        2,455         97          97          29
Save - Okeuwo                       96       28              '89   '144       1       208           766          558          53          53           9
Camefour RN7- Tanguiela             94       47             '184   '141               259          1,139         880          63          63           11
Bassila - Djougou                   89       87             '761   '456       (       970          2,032         1,062        30          30           3
Nikki K-alale (IDA)                 89       48              '36   '250               229          1,063         835          98          68           12
Bankoana - Kand.                    86       70             '294    367    39         503          1,525        1,022         44          44           7
Djougou - Affon (Limise Prenoce)    80       50              '99    263    263        281           996          715          51          51           8
Affon-Sonoumun                      80        22             '25    113    11         110           436          326          57           10          10
Sonoumon- Boo                       80        18              '53     95     9        118           362          244          44          44           7
Bon - NDal,                        8t        37              '37    193    193        183           733          549          58          58           10
Aqohoun - Bonou (IDA)                76       31      '1   '137    161    599         599           972          373          26          26           2
FoBoure-GuessouSud                  75       31               58    163    221        157           514          357          47          47           7
FoBoume-Sinende6                    75       27               10    144    1          110           441          332          58          58           10
Tanguieta - Porga (Carrefour)        72      52       10    929    272    09          908          1.259         351          19           19          0
Dpougou- Pehunco                    99       72    '521      210    305    51        1,036         1.877         841          28          28           2
Logozoh& - Glazou6                  99        17             145      90    235       167           271          104          23          23           1
Kota - Kouande                      54       43      '22      21    126    147        169           680          511          55          55           9
Pehunco - Umite Province            52       32    '133      169      93    262       395           610          215          23          23           0
Siendi - RNIE2 (Yar)            "-848        51    '105       188    10X    289       393           968          575          46          46           6
Boukoumbe - RNIE 3                  48       43              108      99    196       140           454          315          44          20           6
Bioass (Pinene)- Nikk,          "25-48       77      '62     345    152    497        559          1.455         896          50          198
Fint Burktna- Knremou            --48        321    '67      110      63    17        240           614          374          51          19           6
Knimou - Banikoara              '-48          1 5     '30     21      29     5        80            278          198          81          29           11
Kandi-Segbana                       48       95      '45     133    115    24         293          1.598         1,305        126          10          14
Segbana - Front. N(geia         "'10-48       10     '21     315      20    336       356           245          -111          S           -2         -5
UmOte Prounce - Fo Bourne           48        16              71      50    121       86            175           89          28          12           1
ULmst Province - Bankoara            48      42               51      91    133       94            436          342          62          28           10
Kalale - Bessass8              '1I7-48        15     '31      40      29     69       100           292          182          57          20           a
Bessassi-Gaouenzi               '10-48       11      '24      31      22     53       77            207          130          53          19           7
Geouenzi - Niganzi              "10-48        35     '73      95      70    169       238           658     1   420           55          20           7
Niganzi - Sigbana               "10-48       39      '91    105       77    192       263           733          470          56          20           8
Bonou-LUrnPmv                   "9-4          9 69             5     27      3        40            111          71          56          19           8
Urn Pro- Ouinhl                 -9-48        18      '37      18      81              136           335          199          47          16           6
Ouinhl-Kpidikpo                 -9-48         17     '36     182      26    208       244           342           98          21           6           0
Porga (Carreobur) - FrnotireBurkIn  45       '3                       49     4(       35            138          103          51          51           6
Zuungbonou-Bopa-Come                43       47      '98      97      93    1         288           777          489          53          53           a
Kemu - Unyite Pmomnce               43       25               42      0    132        94            235          14           35          35           3
Kouandi-FPhunco                     41       39      '57      26    131    157        214           527          313          41          11           4
PFhunco - kerou                     40       73      '34      99    209    3          342          1,032         690          52          52           6
Doumr  (Fronotere) - Tchelti        39       23    '130       33    1D5    138        191           245           54          18          18           0
Cobly - Tangui6ta                   27       35    '242       95    140    235        426           329          -96           7           7           -6
KorontiAre - Boukountm              17       17    '187       31     63      9        242           104          138          -1          -1          -8
Guene - Kanmama                      186     41    '380       79      82    161       465           216          -249          0           0           -°
Tchaoumnu - BAtirou                  16      54    '338    279    199   438           693           297          -396         -1          -1          -9
Dauton - Cobly                       7       32    '143       89     64    15         86           -121          -210         -9          -d          -13
Total                   3,534   6,987  8,632  9,08       16,842        99,041        42,676
Proposed under IDA finenQnol                                                _                           _                        _
Traffic date colleced - estimated after rehebilitston                                        IRI for the progam:        103          98          22
-'    Spot irrwnpvement (EPC) and drrnmage structure repars (OA)         _       _                          I                         _
6:    Benefits uter cost savings minus oost of maintenance
Fl   Net Present value



ANNEX E
Page 14 of 16
Table E-11: PROGRAMME PROPOSE DROA
BENIN: PROGRAMME PRIORITAIRE QUINQUENAL DES INVESTISSEMENTS ROUTIERS
(1996 - 2000)
Traffic  km    Couits     T.R.I.            Financement              Year
TMJA           Totaux
(mio FCFA)
1 - Routes bitum6es                                       (
1.1 Constnuction routes bitumees
1.1.1 Routes Interurbaines
RNIE3 Djougou-Natitingou                            82     5,240            BID + Fonds Koweitien            En cours
RNIE6 Parakou-Djougou Lot A                         65       671           !BOAD + OPEP+CEDEAO+BN            En cours
RNIE6 Parakou-Djougou reste du projet               71     6,300            FED                              En cours
RNIE1 Cotonou Porto-Novo Travaux                    28    46,290    37%    KFW+BAD+BOAD+FED+BN                 1996
RNI E4 Abomey-Bohicon-Ketou-Illara                 100    10,040   21%    BAD+BOAD                             1996
RNIE Natitingou-Porga                              111     6,770    10%    A rechercher (+5500 apres 2000)     1999
RNIE Djougou-Ouake                                  28       810    8%    A rechercher (+3300 apres 2000)     2000
RNIE3 Savalou-Djougou                              228       180    6%    A rechercher (+20 200 apres 2000)    2000
Amelioration securite                                        600            IDA                                1997
Total Const. Rtes Rev tues Inter-urbalnes        713    76,901
1.1.2 Construction routes urbaines MTPT (accAs et traversee de Cotonou)
Lot Al Akossombo-Etoile Rouge Solebra               10     2,851            BAD-BOAD-BENIN
Lot C Godomey-Akossombo                              6    19,000  41, 2%                      En negociation
Lot D Etoile Rouge OCBN-3 Banques                    3     6,700   34,6%                        A rechercher
Lot E Port-Ancien Pont                              10     9,500   12,3%                        A rechercher
Lot E Ancien Pont-Carr Sobebra                        4    7,000   12.3%                      En negociation
Lot F Akossombo-3 Banques                            6     7,900   45%                          A rechercher
PLan et travaux d'amelioration circulaton                  2,200            IDA
Sous-Total Const. acces et trav, de Cotonou         35    55,151
1.1.3 Am6iloration Circulation dans Cotonou               2,0001          IDA
Total constnuction Routes bitum6es Urbaines                 57,151
Total Construction Routes Bltum6es                        134,052
1.2. Rehabilltation de routes bitum6es
RNIE2 Beroubouay-Malanville                        166    12,157   24%    FED                                En cours
RNIE 1 Cotonou-Hilacondji                           90    12,600    15%                                FED   1996
RNA Pobe-Onigbolo-Ketou                             43     3,400    12%/    __                En negociation   1997-
RNIE4 Dogbo-Azove-Abomey+Azove-Toh+RN 2B Re         95     8,440   20%    DANEMARK                            1996
Total Rehabilitation RoutesBitumXs          394   - 36,597
1.3 Entretben P6rlodlque de routes bitum6ees
RNIE1T Seme-Krake                       1           10       730   30%                          A rechercher   1997
RNIE1B Porto-Novo-Avrankou-lgolo          _         28     2,300 56 a 123%                      A rechercher   1997
RNIE4 Dassa-Savalou/RNIE1B Bohicon-Parakou          33    10,000  10.50%                        A rechercher   1996
Postes de peage                                        1   2,400            CFD                               1998
Total Ent. p6rlodIque Rtes Rev4tuea          71    15,430
2. Routes en terres                         I _     i _     I _
2.1. Elimination Points Crttiques et R6habiDltatlon des Ouvrages (Detall tableau EIO)
1 zoungbonou - Bopa - Comen                    43    47        195    N/A   IDA                                 1996
2 Sinende- RNIE2 (Yara)                        48    51        293    N/A   IDA                                 1996
3 Gu6ne - Karimama                              16    41       439    N/A   IDA                                 1997
4 Okoutaosse (Lim pro) - Bassila               192    53        75
5 Bassila - Djougou                            89    87        761
6, Natitingou - Carrefour RN7                 207      2        1 1
7 Carrefour RN7 - Tanguieta                    94    47        184L
8 Tanguieta - Porga (Carrefour)                72    52        636    N/A   IDA                                 1996
10 Ouake (Fronbere) - Djougou                  162    37        2541
11 Djougou - Affon (Limits Provin)              80    50         89
12 KorontiAre- Boukoumb6                         17    17       218    N/A   IDA                                 1997
13 Boukoumbe- RNIE 3                            48    43        108
14|Kota-Kouande                                  54    43        43    N/A   IDA                                 1996



ANNEXE
Page 15 of 16
15lKouande-Pehunco                               411   38        83    N/A   IDA                              1  1996
16 Djougou-Pehunco                               69    72       731    N/A   IDA                                 1996
17 Pehunco-Kerou                                 40    73       133    N/A   IDA                                 1996
18 Kenou - Limite Province                      43    25         42
19 Pehunco- Limite Province                      52    32       302    N/A   IDA                                 1996
20 Datori - Cobly                                 7    32       232    N/A   IDA                                  1997
21 Cobly - Tangui6ta            -                27    3g       337    N/A   IDA                                  1997
22 Ouidah - Allada                              209    35       -6            _                                   9
24 Binassi (Perere) - Nikki   __r   48    77                    407    N/A   IDA96
25 Nikki - Chicandou        -                   161    22  =    27                     _
26 Front Burkina - Keremou                       48    32       177    N/A   IDA            _                     1996
27 Keremou - Banikoara                 __=  48    15             51    N/A   IDA                               1996
28 Banikoara - Kandi                             86    70       264
29 Kandi - Segbana                               481 95    =1i8    N/A   IDA                                  t  1996
30 Segbana - Front Nig6na                      48      10       336    N/A  I7DA                           4        1996
31 Tchaourou - Beterou                           16    54       617    N/A   IDA                                  1997
32 Affon - Sonoumon                              80    22        25
33 Sonoumon - Bori                               80    18        53
34 Bon - N'DaIi                              =  80=  37             _                   __               __
35 N'dali- Nikki        _ _        _ _          1391   55       372    N/A   IDA                                  1996
36 Limite Province                               48    16        71                               _.           _
37 Fo Boure - Guessou Sud                        75    3f1       58           _         _
38 Fo Boure - Sinende _1=  75    27                              10               ._                     __
39 Limite Province- Banikoara                    48    42        51             _    _
40 Nikki- KaIaIl       _                         89    48        36-_
41 Kalale - Bessassi                             48    15        71    N/A   IDA                                  1996
42 Bessassi - Gaouenzi                           48   11         55    N/A _  IDA                                 1996
43 Gaouezi - N4ganzl                             48    35       16 N/A    IDA                                     1996
44 Neganzi - Segbana                             48    39       186    N/A   IDA                                  1996
45 Lokossa - Deve - Aplahoue                    214    36        25....................                _-
47 Carrefour (Zian) - golo                    402    12          47
50 Akpro - Adjohoun                             354j   25         3
51 Adjohoun - Bonou                              761   311      438       N/A   IDA                               1996
52 Bonou - Lim. Prov                             48     6        13    N/A   IDA                                  1996
53 Savalou - Okoutaossle (Lim Prov)             192    88       189
56 bDoume (Frontire) - Tchetti              |    39    23       163    N/A   IDA                                  1996
S7 Tchetti - Savalou                            171    38       145
5Lgozohe- Glazoue                                69    17       1451
59 Save - Okeowo                                 96!   281       89
o60Lim. Prov - uinhi                             48,   18        551   N/A  |IDA                              [  1996
d61Ouinhi-Kp6d6kpo                          |    48    17       218    N/A   IDA                                  1996
Travaux urgents sur 1. 18, 27, 30, 36, 38. 40, 45. 52  |     540    N/A  TBOAD                                 1996
|Sous-total Rehabilitation               j                                                                     1996
Froutes en terres (EPC etOA)                      2,022    10.521 (3.534 EPC + 6,987 OA)                       1996
Sous-Total Ent. periodique Rtes non-revetues        2,068     8,532
(See detail per road in Annex 10)        |                     _  _                      __-
3. Routes Rurales
Rehabilitation 407 km                                        646            BOAD
-Rihabilitation Borgou, Oueme et Zou                          3.141           BID
Rehabilitation Mono II                   -                   850            FED
Amenagement Zou et Bourgou                                  6,000           CFD
6 Operations pilotes                                        1,600          |IDA
'Pistes Atlantique                                ___-        445           KFW
Ponts dans I 'Atacora                    |             |    1.300|         |                    A rechercher
Entretien periodique                     l                  1.,            jBN
Total Routes Rurales                 15,482
TOTAL GENERAL                    220,600
|  RECAPITULATION                         j       j     j 
Construction ou amelioration routes bitumees            134,052



ANNEX E
Page 16 of 16
Graph E-12: Definition of the Optimal Maintenance Strategy
10 % of Truck Traffic
250-
0
°NS1
E ° 0_                                                                                 > 200 veh./day
, w   150                                                    NS4                        NS5
0.
5                             o               NS1_5    100-200 veh./day
>     0 -
0
a            1 0           1 2           14           16           t18            20            22
Cost of Road Maintenance per Km for each Level of Service (in CFAF 000)
0   70
0
60-
o                                                                                  50-1 00 ve h./day
0
U.
E 40 -
NS1         NS2
0.~~~~NS
" 'U30-        _          sNS3                    NS5         10-50 veh./day
° 3 20
o          NS1  NS2  NS3  NS4  NS5
°                                          < 110 veh./day
S
o     o            -                                     
0     0
7               8           9          10         11          12         13         14          15
Coat of Road Maintenance per Km for each Level of Service (In CFAF 000)



ANNEX F
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
PROGRAMME SECTORIEL D'INVESTISSEMENT DES TRANSPORTS
DOCUMENTS PRINCIPAUX DANS LES ARCHIVES DU PROGRAMME
1.    Restructuration du personnel du fonds routier. Ass. Schene, decembre 1995.
2.    Evaluation economique des strategies d'intervention sur les routes en terre. Audit
du BGR. Actions de formation. Pierre Desgranges, consultant, septembre 1995
3.    Etude sur la promotion du secteur prive des travaux publics. P. B. de Ronchi, J-L.
Gallez, consultants, janvier 1994 et P. Achy, mars 1995.
4.    Rapport de mission et annexes. Impact de la devaluation sur la strat6gie
sectorielle des transports du Benin. J. P. Taroux et J. Baillon, Consultant, juillet et
a6ut 1994.
5.    Plan d'entreprise 1995/2000. PAC, Jonction Etudes Conseil, mars 1995.
6.    Etude economique du programme de routes en terre, V. Chagnaud, novembre 95
7.    Detailed project implementation, World Bank, decembre 1995
8.    Justification economique. Composante portuaire et programme routier
(Annexes A5 et B5, World Bank, decembre 1995
9.    Formation MTPT. Mission de Dominique Prin aupres de la DROA/MTPT, fevrier
1995
10.   Rapport de Mission. Etude exploratoire. Circulation de Cotonou et enquetes
carrefours. Transitec Ingenieurs. Mars et avril 1995.
11.   Rapport final et annexes B et C. Etude de faisabilite de la rehabilitation et
l'entretien des routes de desserte agricole. Berocan International Inc, a6ut 1995.
12.   Restructuration du Port. Document de travail. Mission d'evaluation du Projet
Sectoriel des Transports. Gros Didier de Matons, a6ut 1995.
13.   Clarification statuaire du Fonds Routier. Rapport de mission de Claude Piganiol.
Ass. Schene,juin 1995.
14.   Etude de l'impact environnemental du projet. Nicolas Engli, Consultant.



I



B URKINA FASCI'_                                                                                       N    GE                            ,, 
ModAIoUl; .~                                                              \                                              f o -
BN NIGR, N                                                                            I E
'4       1           NIGE UR KI NA                                     \    3                                     Iulos\dtored
i   ENN   N I G E R I A    12  FASOSt<bs °                                                                           on4e  
* 0    GHANA                                       FAS                                                                        r
C   Knff                 Kcg       -           3rz
a~~~~ / 
ZHZ Angulo Debi F t ~~~~~~~~~N I G E R I A
P.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cI,
C-I ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 6
Ic,1;                                                                          Acd      °5cc            Gcee.l=gNX
1---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
(    .Ecbi                            K7c, /b         u o - ogu
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  Ei;                                                         N  Ifr.r  N5\;
'N            Moudo    umeo n NAEITurINGoS  'EOIat    ( >b.. Gooc                                                    S C
-.   KeIc ~       ~           ~          ~          IVESMENcPRGRA
Redjecde IDe.epcgROAeINFASTR CTUR
/o                                    ' N/                        '                          - e        aL       s/
>          \  ^t                        \  g  P/ARAKOTRANSORT  ECTO
.i                                                    schooutonL ang~4    INVESTMENT PROGRAM
1996-2000 FIVE YEAR PRIORITY PROGRAM
K,I,b;            -        CONSTRUCTIGN GR UPGRADING GF PAVED RGADS
N                -          v;  o,  /                         PERIODIC MAINTENANCE GN PAVED ROADS
t  Brle - uesse ..               SEASGNAIE IMPASSAbLE EARTH ROADS
T  O    G    O                                                                                 T      O BE REMAyblIAIAlED'
z  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~ID,bE. CoIo,e                                                                   RECGNSIRCIJED RECSURFACED, OR RGAEE
z  ,!              1            7, Dlebe K°n;z ssTud_c        9                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER PR EVIO S DA PROJECTS
AREAS GF RURAL ROADS PILOT OPERATIONS'
(V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
TtSP CONTRIBUIING FINANCING
o.o~~~~~~~~~                            ~     ~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ou01  01.1iNO  t3N  ^lR SIO' IAC)S ..D PERIODIC
|LIII PRORIllr IRCII AM IO RE fINANIjD (INDIA ISP
:              ! : stt |n           X                 ,, 9 , 1            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVI D ROA )5
'A                                       I                        Recogeoc                     - ___ P.  LARIH ROADS
g-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- T  b /i           lRACKS
I 'Adck,plc;>                 RIVERS
I                                    III \'' l;e. J         INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
3                         I             ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~                          ~     ~~~~D.  K   .1c   REGIONAE AIRPORTS
Alcee A    jeyc'cI  AEGMEY D_n      SdcpEe       -\    j           < NATIONAL CAPITAL
/                                                           obome   AcTOR          Oe.elA l  A--4  A   I   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
)                        l    )<         : t_gb_d_me   1   1 1sj 4    \          eJ~~~~gb  REGION CAPITALS
>                      Aploh_@v )    \  AL /)5 ' L {B_n_u  t) iiA                       INTERNATIIGNAL bOUNDARIES
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
k. ~ ~ ~ ~~~.
1                                       ic               09SSA     Ad,d,<+f   Nl9
s                        \                   ..ucLoed,9Ap"A'AG,cc Pope                                                                                       w
_  __                      ;                                                                                                                          ,~~~~~~-






IBRD 2;7_28
BENIN                                                                                                                              M A L I
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
COTONOU                                                                                                                        JSURKINA PASO C*
r       EXISTING BUS/TRUCK STATIONS                                                           MAIN ROADS
PLANNED BLS/TRUCK STATIONS                                                    ---  CITY BOUNDARY                                                   Th. b- d .. .. I,                     f   BE N      NIGERIA
3      INTERSECTIONS TO BE IMPROVED UNDER ONGOING PROJECTS                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARY                                              A, , _  n                   GHANA  G
r INTERSECTIONS TO RE IMPROVED UNDER THE TSP                                                                                                              T h. MdS,An  , P-m h'.  VC.
I MTPT NETWORK                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                                   ...                            Aecro
GA/f of GA,ne-
-_         -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ------ ----- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - - ---------------- 7 ----------                                                                                   _ r
SHERATON HOTEL  PORT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOTN
To  Ib=mez                                       _                                                                                                        I                   z2
t                                                                                                                 Bigh 9 h t   oNf   Ben  n,
<    ~     ~         ~    ~ -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -   - - -o                            '                                                      -  - -                      - -- -      -   - -
SILH EE _B S9
~~~~~~=  gl…DE  /   
r0  ,. :'                                                                        -X--_  .                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY'9






IBRD 27A2?
C        0          T                     N                                                                                                            2    N,CErr
zJ                               L        iL                                                                      BURKINA           *
FASO 
Main entrance to port0
Fl                                                                                                               =>--  -g\ B E N I N 
|  94ErJ  |   <  53>/  port                                               ¢TOGO
Ro Ro ramp                                                                           Commercirzl berths                  iot recr//                                                       Derelict                     It
_                                                               ISynchrohhl //                                                   ~~~~~~~                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wharf   
G  ins  Port 6asin                            for ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.rt. N-~~~~~~~~~~~~otoN~o     oo
ffi   \}   0?T m               3      ~~~~~~~~~~~  11 *l~~~eters (36 feet)                                           ssels,o/  od                                                            9*Q*o
etroleum~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Lo~ andtonou
t     gL                            k                                                // ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~containers                                                  tm
-  Nacigation buoy
BEN IN
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
COTONOU PORT
PAVEMENT TO BE UPGRADED                               Cut-off breakwater
BUILT-UP AREAS
'~------- ' RAILROADS
t PORT CUSTOMS FENCE                                                                              0                                         0
MEtTERS






, --                            - .,                                        ....;(>'<,iN  I G E R
|S<  l 0%  X  sia   I?               B U R                K I N An
Lirr                                      'BUR                   INd\                                                                                            0p1.loo..
(0  )  LOT                                                -J                                        Rod1 coT,~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~G- \
a \       *tR      ooot.oo                                                          /                                            O       G oau    K  /
4            l                                                                     /)                                                Goon.            /1
OKooler:                       ~~~~Kosooo
46;     -O          Aogooo-Debo       jo >              K      N IG ERIA
J4 r'                                                   '40                   .                                   010...0
H 51  ---- -i   t PO{9                                                                            Sonsoro°tT.Loug-
|    X Dussosl       ~ ~oI,ol                       °0loGogouooo                                                            Seygooo&' 
j              DoTg-I,,oo                                                                  406 EK,,oo                                              j
/      K.bi       25                                         32               Y-o
j 7     °     T..k:.-_uno          K.... l.                                                                                         G....n
0     Tookooo,ro  Noo lLN    44
t2i      K.oo,-qo                323.obo oS
oO0Kooonl,.. 512        I    Kolopoongo   37 PeTonLo                                                                  0c          T 
'6                                    49~~~~~~~~0       0or        011-6-k,e&
RowLokobeK                                                      49      1Fo-Bou,  521                            18S
1,         184                                                62        0G0000o-  Sod                                   !
01       o10n             6J                           Se,ou                8|/oo  1'9      oNSLL ,-
*      205                                                                                   196       _-
0Boeleloungou            ° O068     bo,,  101   'N                              K'Iooooo
Bod,ood. (Doopogol3           0D^oogoo          75        no00on000                             0
;~~~~~~~~1                                              745                         J
\  1                                owe We                           25    B            (
K >                                         tS                                   115                    'P-k-
/                    N..                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~234
P                                                     N, '_heeou
j                             \                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~592
A.                                                       ;                                                         'B E N I N
\   2TRANSPORT SECTOR
9 jINVESTMENT PROGRAM
1,79                                                  h    1994 ROAD TRAFFIC VOLUME
Ns N                                                     0ZOkofaoloouo                   Voo   K,6o0          ,                            OITNJAn1O VEHICLES/DAY
to0e,e       486 o:                                  ISoT 10<1NJAo20 VEbICIES/DAY
<:   aI   T    O  G    O   '              Dlebe K:nionguudo               \                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~20<TNJA<50 VEHICLES/DAY
Z    A    ~~~~T 0   G  0                                                       -...J.50NAI0 VICE/Y
,                                                                 178                                                                   I 0O0<TNJA,200 VEHICLES/DAV
I-)  .   /                         200'TNJAS500 VEHICLES/DAY
b     .                                                                                                                                         0,T:000e   S;ooIo5  500  #0    87  joLo 000V1NJAIE1000 VEHICIES/DAY
j96     15o7       380  64                         j                                                                            b
I  Tohb. d, lodom0                              b0 )                                TNJAoI000 VEHICIES/DAY
D....                   ooI oo
S                 OeGb.do.o.i                                               486     VEHICIES/DAY
940                                                     4      INIERNATIONAL AIRPORT
i                                                       r                 ,                          OAdoLplo-e '                    ±      REGIONAL AIRPORTS
1.roo   02  I0                   '       NATIONAL CAPIIAL
Ato,',. Ao !qoo~          DooonO          Kped; L0 I2                                              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
/ Alunie Avegome | ~~~~~~~~Abom-y,  h2 _54                             9       n D3      -     -     -     -         I 4TERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i      2437   \        0oZgbodooeo         Ioo  
('o*                                          C-99010iiolS ,1621 ,Zkpo                   '                                                  O
SQ~~                                             DogLo lobg 594
-,D 96I-111o.bo D                               o
D   5 996         /- ..                        5067'.
La;; tS-~ -w/                             A1,r,ogon      Aoho,  Soi !A,' Q
Hd-A3                                                 2   -       1 2                                               -                       o









I M AGING
Report No:      15126 BEN
Type: cAR



