Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24379
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29240; PPFI-QO120)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.5 MILLION (US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
06/24/2002
AFTTR/AFC13
Africa Region
This (locument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)
Currency Unit   CFAF
CFAF 1 = USS 0.0013
US$ I    CFAF 7225
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANECA               L'Association nationale des entreprises de construction et assimil&s
(National Association for Const ion Enterprises and Affiliates)
AGETUR              Agence d'execution des travaux urbains (Urban Works Agency)
BOAD                Banque ouest africatine de developpment (West Africa Development Bank)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CFD                 Caisse fianqaise de developpement (French Bilateral Aid)
CNCB                Conseil national des chargeurs bu Benin (National Shippers Council)
CNSR                Conseil national de la s6curit6 routiere (National Council for Road Security)
CINPR               Conseil tecimique national (National Technical Council for Rural Roads)
CUC                 Circonscripton urbaine de Cotonou (Cotonou Urban Cormmunity)
DROA                Direction des routes et ouvrages d'art (Roads and Works Departmt)
DMT                 Direction du matdriel des travaux publics (Directorate of Public WoTrk
Equipment)
DIT                 Direction des tranworts terrestres (Road and Rail TrmspoTt Directorate)
ERR                 Taux de rentabilite economique (Economnic Rate of Return)
GDP                 Produit int6rieur brut (Gross Domestic Product)
IDA                 Agence internationale de diveloppement (International Development Agency)
IRR                 Taux de rentabilit6 interne (Interest Rate of Return)
KfW                 Kredit fur Wiedaufbau (Geaman Bilateral Aid)
MDP                 MinistEre du D6veloppement rumral (Ministry of Rural Development)
MFE                 Ministre de rEconomie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MmT                 Minist6re des travaux publics et du tansport (Ministry of Public Works and
Transport)
NDF                 Fonds nordique de d6veloppement (Nordic Development Fund)
NGO                 Organisation non gouvernementale (Nongovernmental Organiation)
OCBN                Organisation commune B6nin-Niger (B6nin-Niger Railway)
PAC                 Port autonome de Cotonou (Benin Port Authority)
PRSP                Poramme de la lutte contre contre la pauvret6 sectorielle (Poverty Reduction
and SecCtr Progrmn)
QAG                 Groupe d'assrance de qualite (Quality Assurance Group)
SAL                 Prets l'ajustement structurel (Stural Adjustment Lending)
SAR                 Rapport devaluation (Staff Appraisal Report)
SERHAU-SEM          Soci6te d'Etudes rEgionales d'habitat et d'amdnagement wubain (Regional Habitat
& Urban Dewelopment Studies Bureau)
SLMTP               Soci6t6 de location du mnatriel des travaux publics (Public Works
Equipment Leasing Company)
SME                 Petites et moyemmes entreprises (Small and Mediun Enterpie)
SOBEMAP             Soci6t6 b6ninoise de manuntention portuaire (Benin Cargo Handling compay)
SOBEMAP             Soci6te bnioise de ranuntention portuaire (Benin Cargo Handling company)
TSS                 Strat6gie du secteur des transporW (Transport Sector Strategy)
VicL President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Direct    Antoinette MC Ssyeh
SectorManager.    Mmyone PleissFraissard
Taslc Team Leader;  Zaza MEnibanj      a



Project ID: P000117                                      Project Nanie: TRANSPORT SECTOR
.....                                            INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Te7m Leader: Zaza Manitranja Ramandimbiarison             TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Crpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 24. 2002
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT                    LICITF Number: IDA-29240;
PROGRAM                                                      PPFI-QO120
CounytylDepartnment: BENIN                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways; TP - Ports & Waterways; TT -
Transportation Adjustment; TY - Other
Transportation
KE Y DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/07/1993                             Effective: 03/06/1997         03/06/1997
Appraisal:  03/23/1995                               MTR: 05/05/2000            05/05/2000
Approval:  10131/1996                              Closing:  12131/2001         12/31/2001
Borrowver/lImplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT/MTPT AND PAC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Antoinette M. Sayeh                       Theodore 0. Ahlers
Secror Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard               James Otis Wright
Team Leader at ICR:  Zaza Manitranja                           Benard N. Peccoud
Ramandimbiarison
ICA Pri,nary Author:  James Otis Wright



The objectives of the project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were: (a) to
safeguard the competitiveness of Benin's transport sector and of its- transit corridor dtrough open
modal competition; (b) to improve governnent's capacity for planning, programming and
managing transport sector investments; (c) to boost the allocation of resources to infrastructure
maintenance; (d) to boost the recovery of infrastructure user charges; (e) to expand private sector
participation in public works and maximize its impact on the creation of jobs for unskilled labor,
(f) to build capacity in sector institutions and optimize human resource utilization; and (g) to
protect the environment and improve road safety conditions.
While a more focused set of objectives would have been easier to monitor and evaluate, the
objectives were supportive of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in
June 1994, which stressed private sector development and poverty alleviation. The SAR stated
that the project would support these objectives by: (a) creating an enabling environment for the
private sector through reduction of transport costs and privatization of transport operations; (b)
supporting the provision of basic social services and improving road infrastructure, mainly rural,
and urban transport management; and (c) supporting agricultural development by facilitating
access to rural areas. The Transport Sector Investment Project was included in the "base-case"
lending program outlined in the CAS for Benin.
The project was also consistent with a 1995 Policy Framework Paper, which was to be
inmplemented with the support of a third structural adjustment operation (SAL III). The objectives
of that operation were: (a) to accelerate the rate of growth of real GDP; (b) to further reduce
domestic and external imbalances to enable the country to be less dependent on foreign assistance;
(c) to alleviate poverty and improve basic social services; (d) to rehabilitate social and physical
infrastructure; and (e) to promote human resource development.
The IDA financed project was part of a broader Transport Sector Investment Program for
1996-2000, which was developed to implement the Transport Sector Strategy, which in turn was
based on studies that had been carried out in 1992 through financing by the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport (MTPT). The Transport Sector Strategy was presented to a donor round
table meeting, and the results were issued in March 1994 by the Bank as a Transport Sector
Strategy Report (12098-BEN) that covered issues relating to the principle modes of transport and
set the framework for the program:
*     Roads. Road fund receipts were insufficient to cover maintenance needs, and it was over
staffed. The Road Fund was to be changed to include user representatives, to limit financing to
the maintenance of MTPT managed Roads, and to no longer cover payroll and operating costs.
Road Fund resources were to be increased by raising the government's contribution and
contracting toll collection to private firms. This was done in 1995. Additional resources were to
come from an extension of the road toll system with some residual paid by the national investrnent
budget MTPT was to privatize road maintenance progressively, with Road and WoTks
Departnent (DROA) focusing on staff management, cost recovery, data collection and
procurement. The govermment also was to improve road safety by increasing operator
competence, vehicle inspection and urban traffic management.
-2-



*     Ports. The Autonomous Port of Cotonou (PAC) was much less competitive in terms of
transport facilitation a-nd operational productivity than ports in neighboring countries, which was
exacting a high economic cost on Benin, and it was in poor financial condition. These conditions
were caused mainly to slow administrative procedures, slow customs clearance and lack of
accountability. The strategy called for restricting new investment and introducing cost accounting
at PAC, improving the operations of the public sector Benin Cargo Handling Company
(SOBEMAP), contracting some operations out, reducing bottlenecks to reduce delays, and
nrviewing the activities of the Benin Maritime Navigation Company and the National Shippers
C'ouncil (CNCB).
*     Rail and Air Sectors. The government was establishing a "contract-plan" for the Railway
Company (OCBN) to enhance competitiveness and financial independence. It also agreed to
establish an autonomous entity to manage airport operations with French bilateral assistance.
A. total transport program of CFAF 247 billion (US$494 million) was agreed upon at appraisal in
A.pril 1995, but only 74% of the funding was confinned at that time. Most of the funding from
olther donors which was committed or under negotiation (CFAF 120.5 billion; US$241 million)
was to be focused on the roads sector, largely on paved road construction and rehabilitation.
Components to be financed by IDA were focused on the roads and port sectors (CFAF20.03
biillion; US$40 million). IDA financing in the roads sector was largely focused on unpaved road
rehabilitation, institutional strengthening and urban road improvements.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
ID)A funds were to support:
(a)   Port Operations and Management for (US$ 5.7 million). (i) Civil works to rationalize use
of space within the port, in particular creating dedicated space outside the port compound for
customs inspection of containers and for used car handling and repair and paving heavily
trafficked surfaces; (ii) short-term technical assistance and training to the PAC for operational
improvements using Portware software and training of port operators; (iii) short-term technical
assistance for financial management and cost accounting improvements for updating the five-year
pniority investment program and implementing the civil works component; (iv) short-term
technical assistance to MTPT management for preparation of a port operation and facilitation
strategy, and reform of user mechanisms; and (v) short-term technical assistance to port users
and the Chamber of Commerce for information diffusion and user group start-up.
(b)   Road Repair. Maintenance. Safety and Network Management (IJS$32.1 million!. (i)
Priority civil works on MTPT's road network, including elimination of all unpaved network
tnruble spots, involving about 1,066 kriis, of which 400 knms are damaged during the rainy season,
repair of critical bridges and drainage works on about 850 kms, of priority unpaved roads,
periodic maintenance (regravelling) on about 600 kms, DROA's office buildings upgrading, and
-3-



road safety improvements at frequent accident locations on the paved network; (ii) short-term
assistance, training, studies and- equipment for key management improvements within M-TPT,
including annual updating of the five year priority program; financial management, transport
licensing, contract management, data collection on road operators and road conditions, personnel
management; (iii) a traffic safety program including short-term technical assistance to the CNSR
and MTPT for road and vehicle safety, supply of data processing equipment, setting procedures
for eliminating high accident locations, improving rules for road and accident reporting and
enforcing vehicle weight limits; (iv) private sector support to strengthen local civil works
enterprises for road maintenance and spot improvements, including assistance to small and
mnedium enterprises by an NGO, training and support to improve the regulatory environment and
start-up of a public-private equipment pool; and (v) program management, including studies for
annual updating of the five-year priority program, annual works audits, final engineering,
preparation of bidding documents and works supervision.
(c)   Rlural Road Rehabilitation and Management (US$3.1 million?. (i) Civil works to
rehabilitate 300 Iam of rural roads in collaboration with local communities in Cobly, Adjohoun and
Bamikora villages and three other areas, as a pilot for defining a rural road strategy; and (ii)
introduction of a pilot, locally operated, rural road maintenance program by DROA with local
committees, including assistance to DROA for developing and implementing new procedures for
programming, management and financing of rural road maintenance and to local and intemational
NGOs who lacked experience and would be strengthened to assist local committees in fund
collection and volunteer mobilization.
(d)   Urban Road Improvements and Traffic Management (US$3.1 million). (i) Works to
improve road safety and traffic conditions in Cotonou, including elimination of high accident and
congested areas, 11 km of separate lanes for two-wheeled vehicles on the most heavily traveled
road and renovation of the three main bus/truck stations, including improvement of their
management; and (ii) equipment and vehicles for the new traffic management unit in the
Municipality of Cotonou, short-term technical assistance for training for Cotonou's traffic
management plan, studies for a bus/traffic management plan and its implementation and definition
of a means for urban user participation in traffic planning through an NGO.
Technical Assistance in All Components IDA financed program components supported no
full-time technical assistance. Terms of reference were defined for specific tasks for short-term
assignments, and local consultancies were specified wherever possible. All of the port assistance
(30 months) was to be external but 45 of the 125 months required for the road component were
to be hired locally.
The IDA-assisted components were defined within a broader program that was being undertaken
with parallel financing by eleven other donors. Although close donor consultation was to be
maintained during the project period, the IDA-assisted components were not directly linked to
much of the other donor activity.
The components were consistent with the objectives that focused on improving capacity and
resource mobilization and allocation, and private sector participation in Benin's transport sector.
-4-



1'he project design took into account lessons from previous projects (see Section 3.4). However,
it proved to be somewhat beyond-the capacity of the-implementing agencies, particularly the PAC.
Elecause of political and vested interests, the port component met resistance on policy changes
and was implemented very slowly. Implementation was delayed on the road maintenance
component due to slow development and staffing in DROA and a restructuring of the MTPT as a
n:sult of government changes in 1998. These latter constraints delayed, but they did not prohibit
the successful implementation of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Griven the importance of the new policies-for the sector and for the eventual success of the
IDA-assisted part of the project, specific changes in support of the strategy were requested as
conditions for negotiations. These included agreement on statutes enhancing the resources of the
Road Fund and enabling staff restructuring and early retirement. Agreements on restructuring and
partial privatization of activities in the Port proved more difficult to obtain. This ultimately
delayed negotiations for the project until October 1996, but it brought about progress in sector
policies. Before negotiations the government provided the Bank with a policy statement. In that
note, it declared its commitment inter alia to cost recovery from road users, increased
involvement of the private sector in road maintenance, increased management of rural roads by
users and reform and partial privatization of a number of port functions.
The thorough policy discussion and demonstration of government commitment during preparation
reduced the risk of failure for the rather ambitious agenda of the project. Specific risks identified
during preparation and dealt with in part through advance commitments were: (a) the ability of
the Road Fund to collect adequate resources; (b) the slow restructuring of DROA; (c) uncertainty
about the involvement of communities and NGOs in road maintenance; and (d) weak adherence of
all parties to the program. All of these factors eventually led to some implementation delays
dluing the project period, but (a), (b), and (c) were identified early and could be dealt with during
the early years of the project. Weak adherence of MTPT and PAC to the objectives of the port
component led to delays and were only resolved in part near the end of the project period.
A large amount of previous project experience in this sector, program development, donor
coordination and detailed project preparation went into the preparation of this project. IDA had
supported improvements in Benin's transport sector since 1970 through four highway projects,
three feeder road projects, one port project and one broader transport project. Previous lessons
from this experience were taken into account in the shaping of this project. These lessons
included: (a) road maintenance should be financed from user charges, not general taxation; (b) a
broader sector strategy should be followed by all actors and donors; and (c) all users and
operators should be involved to improve transport efficiency. Studies were carried out beginning
in 1992 with financing from an ongoing IDA-assisted project, by the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport (MTPT) focusing on trade facilitation and improving the financing of transport.
Thlere was also a broad consultation of private and public sector stakeholders that led to the
-5



Transport Strategy Report which was issued in March 1994 (see section 3.1).
The project was defined in great detail within the broader context of a donor-supported effort. A
large effort was made to be sure that all participants were fully aware of the details of the project
and their own roles in implementation. Given this detailed preparation process and the large
consensus building effort with the governnent and the donor community, quality at entry is rated
highly satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Oft come/achievement of objective:
The project largely achieved its stated objectives:
(a)   The competitiveness of Benin's transport sector has been improved. Rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance on both paved and unpaved roads has improved. The country is much
closer to achieving a sustainable road system, and road conditions have substantially improved
which have improved accessibility. Maritime transport has been liberalized. The National
Shippers Council (CNSR) has been restructured in support of shippers, ceasing its intervention in
cargo allocation. Most donors now recognize that Benin has one of the most competitive
transport sector (especially roads) in West Africa.
(b)   The government's capacity for planning and managing transport sector investments has
been enhanced. The preparation process introduced an integrated approach for planning
expenditure in the sector. MTPT reorganized some of its departments and staffing and introduced
an integrated approach for program planning and monitoring. This included a transport
information system. A year after the project agreement was signed, road construction was being
planned and maintenance was being programmed on a regular basis. In 2000 and 2001 the
project assisted MTPT/DROA to prepare its budget programs from FY01 to FY04, thus
maintaining the system of programming and budgeting that was established during the preparation
of this project. A community based rural transport strategy has been tested, and an evaluation has
been carried out on how to improve community participation in poor areas. The improvement of
port management was only partly achieved, but policy dialogue has been deepened.
(c)   Resources have been increased for infrastructure management and user fees have been
increased. The Road Fund has exceeded performance objectives (resource mobilization over
100% of targets; settlement of contractors' bills within 15 days) over the five years of the project.
Road Fund resources were expected to reach 3,380 million by 1999, and this was reached in
2000.
(d)   User charges for roads have increased. The recovery of infrastructure charges has been
increased, especially due to improvements in collections by the Road Fund (see Section 4.5).
(e)   Pivate sector participation and unskilled employment have been increased. Port
authorities are undertaking a study of private sector participation in port management, and
container handling activities, once a monopoly, have been liberalized with two private and one
-6-



public enterprises competing, which has led to improvements in quality and costs. Force account
iin DROA has-been dismantled and road maintenance works have been contracted out to the
private sector. A large amount of additional employment has been generated because of higher
level of road maintenance afforded by increased Road Fund receipts.
(1)   Capacity has been increased tn sccwr insltutuons. The Roads and Works Department
(]DROA) has been reorganized and its planning and management enhanced with more effective
procedures, incentives, qualified staff and equipment required for network information and
management. A new salary structure is in place which includes a performance based incentive
s:ystem. Fifteen qualified engineers have been hired and trained in DROA. The Road Fund has
been restructured into an autonomous entity with much less staff and with adequate resources for
road maintenance. A competent team now manages the Road Fund (see Section 4.5). While
accounting has improved in PAC, other management and software improvements are delayed.
(g) The enviromnent has been protected and road safety improved. Environmental mitigation
measures agreed upon at appraisal were employed by DROA in road rehabilitation and
maintenance, supporting the Environmental Action Plan of Benin: Improved urban traffic
mrranagement has led to traffic management and safety in Cotonou. A road safety program has
been initiated (see Section 4.2).
The project achieved a high degree of success. Under the roads component the system for
financing, managing and maintaining the road network has been fundamentally reformed. Urban
roads and traffic management have been improved. Progress was slower with regard to reforms
irn the port. Port operations have improved due to recent measures taken by its management,
inlcluding the introduction of private sector participation, but progress was delayed by political
and vested interests during most of the nroject period. On balance, however outcome is
satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(at) Port Operations and Management
The ports component got off to a slow'start and positive results were not evident until the end of
the project. There were high levels of inefficiency and rent seeking among various actors in the
port that MTPT was reluctant to address, which constrained reform efforts. Recurrent
maintenance and paving works were delayed and used car storage was cluttering the port. Inputs
of technical assistance for financial management and software development were often met with
resistance. There was a high turnover in port management dictated by political interests. A
Managing Director was appointed for the port in 1998, but corruption, security and internal
management problems persisted. In the end, although all the improvements in management
efficiency were not achieved, there were some positive results: (i) civil works were completed in
the port, some financed by BOAD, and a site was identified outside the port for a customs zone
for used automobiles; (ii) technical assistance was provided to PAC to design the customs zone
for used vehicles and supervise civil works; and (iii) new software for port management
(CHRONOPORT) was installed, but the PORTWARE software necessary to feed information to
it was only installed by some users. With better information management revenues began to
.7.



improve. However, some users, most notably customs and some unions, did not wish to use the
system; Customs was under the Ministry of Finance and was not compelled-to conform.
Resistance also arose from within MTPT to the PORTWARE software; and (iv) the master plan
for the Port of Cotonou was updated. The Bank had to threaten credit suspension and to limit
investment on the port component to bring about a government decision to adopt a new strategy
aiming at privatizing port management operations.
The 1997 audit of PAC had a number of serious qualifications and some audits were submitted
late. This led to a threat of suspension by the Bank. In the context of the discussions on port
management, the inefficiency of the public freight handling company was raised. Progress was
made on this issue near the end of the project period and when in preparing a follow-on lending
operation.
(b)   Road Repair. Maintenance. Safety and Network Management'
(i) Road repair and maintenance: DROA was slow to begin organizational changes, but its new
organization was agreed to by mid-1997. Additional professional staff were recruited. There
were initial difficulties with road works due to a lack of capacity among small and medium
contractors who needed more highly trained professionals and equipment. There was also a need
to establish a system of local supervision. A road data bank was put in place. In the end, these
systems were developed, and a new organization was put in place. Action was taken to establish
a system for equipment leasing, but this has not yielded much improvement. In 1997 Road Fund
receipts were 130% above estimate. Technical assistance was set up to provide a road data bank.
Road rehabilitation and maintenance covered 2,084 kilometers in five sets of contracts, including
elimination of critical points and upgrading and construction of bridges. Works were carried out
by a mix of small and medium local contractors and large local and international firms.
(ii) Road Safety: Technical assistance was provided to the Directorate of Land Transport (DTT)
and the National Center for Road Security (CNSR). Technical assistance was also provided to
improve the database on road security as well as to develop and implement a road safety policy.
Near the end of the project period contracts to be financed by NDF were agreed to with a
consultant to help CNSR to launch a public awareness campaign on traffic safety and train the
police in this regard. This component suffered long delays in consultant procurement.
(iii) Support to small and medium enterprises (SMEs). This component progressed slowly due to
problems with consultant recruitment and difficulties reaching agreements between the
contractors' association (ANECA) and DROA. Some training courses were arranged but only
near the end of the project period. The design of this component proved to be insufficient as it
was based on inadequate premises cooperation with the contractors association.
(c)   Rural Road Rehabilitation and Management
This component was slow to be initiated and a smaller amount of rural roads were rehabilitated
than planned. A cell for rural roads was foTmed in DROA. In 1998, and a National Council for
Rural Roads (CTNPR) was established with a set of procedures and agreements to be used in
working with local communities. An international NGO and local NGOs were recruited to assist
-8-



vith the program, but some were not fully competent in this type of program. The comununities
selected were geographically spread which led to delays. There were delays in setting up the
management structure and because several communities could not raise the required counterpart
finds. The Bank suggested that communities provide labor as their contribution. There were
also delays in tendering and the work on five lots had to be re-tendered near the end of 2001
mnaking it impossible to include the work in the project. Only about 50 of the planned 300
kilometers of rural roads were finished before the closing date. The rest were to be financed from
the government budget. The overhead costs for the program were high, about 35% of
investment. Several communities provided labor, financial and material support, but in some
cases community financial support did not reach the levels expected.
In spite of the difficulties with implementation, ex-post analysis in Banikoara, one of the regions
to benefit from rural road improvement, has shown that positive results were achieved. The study
of the Banikoara region showed that after road improvement cotton production rose from about
29,000 tons in 1998-99 to 44,700 tons in 2001-02 due largely to the improved market access of
the villages. Corn, rice and sorghum also posted significant increases. Access to health centers,
schools, water points and markets was also improved. Eighty-five,percent of the population
expressed satisfaction with the present availability of motorized transport. It should be noted,
however, reforms were being made in the cotton sector at this time, and some of the
inprovements could be attributable to this.
(d)   Urban Road Improvements and Traffic Management
A. study on traffic management and required works and management studies began early in the
p:roject period. At the end of the project all the works and the capacity building activities were
completed under contract by AGETUR. These included:
(i) Paving, drainage and a dedicated bicycle path were completed on Augustin Nicoue Avenue;
(ii) a truck/bus station, access roads and parking lots were constructed. However, some of these
faicilities were not yet being managed by the concessionaire, as originally intended, because of a
dispute between the CUC and the truckers' unions; (iii) eleven priority intersections were
improved, including traffic management and signalization. Consultants also trained members of
the Cotonou Traffic Cell, DROA, the National Police, CNSR and AGETUR. AGETUR managed
separate contracts for the installation of signals and civil works that were finished in 2001.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
BEonomic analysis was undertaken on nine of the largest road sections in the project on an
ex-ante and an ex-post basis (see Annex 3). IRRs calculated at appraisal ranged from 3% to 62%.
After implementation the rates of return ranged from 12.1% to 85%, with the exception of two
rmads which yielded a rate of return below 12%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were not possible in this type of project.
4.3 Institutional development impact:
9



ROADS:
Road Fund: The Road Fund was restructured and given independent status while its activities
were limited exclusively to road maintenance. Most of its 821 employees were retired or moved
to DROA, leaving it with II employees. Before the project the Road Fund only accounted for
18% of the cost of road maintenance, leaving maintenance very dependent on the national budget.
During the project the road tax (taxe de voirie) was raised, tollbooths were consolidated and
collections privatized. The contribution from the national budget rose from CFA 600 million in
1997 to CFA 850 million in 2002. Funding was thus guaranteed for recurrent and periodic
maintenance. This was a major achievement recognized by all donors and by the transport
community in Benin.
DROA: DROA was restructured to reform the road maintenance system. Force account work
has remained limited at one-third of the total, the remainder going to private enterprises. This
gave an important impetus to the development of SMEs, but the impact on them was limited by
their own constraints, such as equipment, organization, and skills. Some 30 contracting firms
came into being during the project period, but efforts to build their capacity through a cell in
DROA had only limited impact, largely because of conflicts within the contractors' association
which was contracted to manage the training program. IDA provided support to the contractors
and their professional association, but with little impact. In the end, training for contractors were
mounted directly by DROA.
Rural Roads: Some individual projects have had positive impacts, but the scale of the program
has been limited. NGOs have been involved in efforts to mobilize local populations in three
regions (Cobly, Adjohoun and Banikoara). The approach was only successful in Banikoara. The
amount of counterpart funds raised from some communities was low in relation to the cost of
road rehabilitation. Efforts are being made to improve community mobilization and training and
to reduce the costs of NGO participation in spite of several adjustments to accommodate this
capacity. This circumstance has led to delays.
Equipment Leasing (DMTP): The DMTP has been transformed into an Equipment Leasing
Company (SLMTP). Now separated from DROA, DMTP has an insufficient stock of aging
equipment. Insufficient working capital and management have limited its operations.
PORT
PORTWARE software had been connected to port users, including PAC, SOBEMAP and
customs, but customs and port unions, supported by other vested interests, have resisted its use,
which has constrained the improvement of port operations. A study of a new location for a
customs zone for used vehicles was undertaken, but the site has been changed, which will require
a new study. However, progress has been made in granting concessions for container handling to
private operators. In addition, the National Shippers Council (CNCB) has been restructured in
support of shippers, ceasing its intervention in cargo allocation. Finally, with IDA support, the
Government has agreed to involve the private sector in port management and operations as the
-10-



Dnly way to improve the efficiency of the port
While institutional development in the port has progressed more slowly, reorganization of the
iroads sector has been fully implemented and is leading to an efficient road management and
maintenance system. Therefore institutional impact is rated satisfactory, with elements of highly
satisfactory performance.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
.5. F Factors outside the control oJ'government or implemnenting agency:
*' Community participation for rural roads did not materialize as expected. Some local
communities lacked the resources and interest to participate.
*' Small and medium enterprises had limited financial and technical capacity- and did not perform
as desired for road maintenance and rehabilitation. As they gain experience and equipment this
constraint is likely to be less in the future.
*   The contractors association lacked the capacity and interest to manage the training program
for local contractors. Many of the contractors' expertise was in other types of development
such as building or water supply.
*   Some of the other donors had cumbersome approval procedures which delayed their
participation.
S.2 Factors generally subject to governmenl control:
*   The government was slow to make decisions regarding the port, both before and during the
project. There were three General Managers in the port during the project period. The
General Manager of the PAC was dismissed in November 1997 and not replaced for about six
months. This delayed important aspects of the policy dialogue until the end of the project.
* There were some early delays in the rural roads program as responsibilities between MTPT
and MDR needed to be agreed to.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   DROA was slow to begin its reorganization, which delayed the project. However, by
mid-1998 planning and programming at DROA were in place, works had been launched for
the first two years and the Road Fund was operational.
*   For some time, PAC management was unable to cope with inadequate administration, lack of
safety, poor container handling, corruption and delays in civil works. The restructuring of
CNCB was delayed. The failure to maintain and strengthen PORTWARE software greatly
constrained management effectiveness. The PAC audit for 1997 had important qualifications.
The state of the PAC accounts and audits and its hesitancy to introduce private sector
participation and improve financial management caused IDA to theaten suspension in late
1999.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project cost was only US$32.8 million of the US$45.22 million estimated at appraisal (see
Annex 2). This difference was largely due to shortfalls in the implementation of the ports and



rural roads components which were not completed by the project completion date. Part of the
shortfall in US Dollars was-also due to the devaluation of the FCFA-during-the-project period.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainahilitv rating:
Ports: Although a Port Authority and a Port Coordination Committee have been set up, the
Authority exercises inadequate control and the Committee rarely decides on important issues.
Software for port management is not operational and the private sector has not become involved
in port management. These factors may constrain the sustainability of physical improvements
made in the port. The partial privatization of container management and the restructuring of the
National Shippers Council (CNSB) in support of shippers should, however, somewhat mitigate
the above constraints. Sustainability of these limited improvements in the port is likely.
Roads: The restructuring of DROA and a change in the salary structure to include an incentive
system has improved its efficiency. The Road Fund has been restrctured with reduced staff. Its
funding includes resources to complement the limited fuel tax receipts which gives it sufficient
resources to maintain the road system. Training for small and medium contractors has not been
successful through ANECA, but is being pursued by a cell in DROA. DROA is now contracting
most road maintenance to the private sector. Sustainability is highly likely.
Rural Roads: A National Council for Rural Roads has been established to monitor and evaluate
the pilot projects and follow up on their broader application in collaboration with DROA. It has
been recognized that in zones lacking cash crops beneficiaries cannot pay sufficient counterpart
funds and, even when labor is taken into account, some funding from the government budget is
likely to be necessary. Sustainability is likely.
Urban Roads: A cell has been created in the Municipality of Cotonou to follow up on road
improvement work by implementing a traffic management plan for the city. Staff have been well
trained and have proved to be efficient. Sustainability is likely.
Especially given the improvements achieved under the project in the financing and management of
road maintenance, the introduction of some private sector participation in the port and the interest
and ability of the MOF and MTPT to proceed with a sector investment approach in the future, the
project sustainability is rated likely.
6.2 Transifion arrangement to regular operations:
The improved road funding and maintenance system put in place during the project should be able
to maintain and extend the improvements in the road system. While transition is less certain in the
port, the privization of container handling and elimination of the CNCB should maintain some
momentum in the improvement of port management.
All components of the project were not completed within by the closing date. The remainder of
- 12 -



the project is expected to be financed from the government budget.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank had been involved in the transport sector in Benin since 1970. Through this experience
it became aware that a project-by-project approach was not having a sufficient enough impact on
sustainability issues such as the lack of systematic maintenance and institutional support. The
Bank financed studies and prepared the Transport Sector Strategy Report which became the
framework within which this project was developed. Together with other donors and the
Government of Benin, the Bank took the lead in formulating the broad Transport Sector
Investment Program for 1996-2000, which became the framework within which this project was
prepared (see section 3. 1). It ensured that important policies and institutional improvements were
in place before the project was negotiated.
Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
There were eleven supervision missions during the project period. Early during supervision,
attainment of Development Objectives was downgraded to Unsatisfactory due to the situation in
the port. Problems in the port continued, but inputs of technical assistance were provided to
upgrade PAC management and there was a warning to suspend disbursements due to qualified
audits and lack of movement on institutional changes. This led to improvements, especially in
accounting, container handling and freight forwarding. Technical support was provided in a
timely manner to the borrower that kept the project on track in spite the negative effects of
changes at the head of MTPT. QAG has rated supervision satisfactory with many aspects
considered Highly Satisfactory. Supervision at the ICR stage is rated satisfactory.
!t3 Overall Bankperformance:
EIspecially given the thorough job of policy analysis and consensus building among donors and the
government and the aggressive follow-up on key issues such as road maintenance and financing
and port efficiency, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borroover
7.4 Preparation:
T he borrower was fully involved in project preparation. It participated in the formulation of a
strategy for the sector in collaboration with IDA and many other donors. Important reforms and
institutional changes were enacted before the project was negotiated and became effective.
Elorrower performance is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation perfonnance:
For the roads component, MTPT provided support to the agency and to the important reforms in
road maintenance brought about by the project. Government support was less consistent in port
- 13 -



reformn, although initial steps were taken which may open opportunities for the future.
Government iniplemnentation performnance is rated satisfactory.
7.6 Implernenling Agency:
The PAC was slow to enact meaningful policy changes, and difficult financial and auditing issues
arose during the project, but some meaningful changes in cargo and container handling were made
near the end of the project period. More significant improvements were made in road
maintenance funding through DROA with the reform of the road fund and the improved
programming of maintenance. The AGETUR and the Municipality of Cotonou implemented the
road improvement and traffic management component well. Implementation agency performance
is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperfornmance:
For the reasons stated above, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Comprehensive policy analysis, consensus building and sector-wide institution building are
important for obtaining lasting results. Building polity consensus and donor support may take
time, but it is worth while to ensure profound improvements.
*   Improved management and privatization can be very difficult to achieve in the face of strong
vested interests. There were a number of studies and consultant reviews of the port, and
successive missions raised the issue to the highest levels. Only near the end of the project was
significant progress made. In these cases, strong persistence and follow-up during supervision
can lead to results.
*   Training of small roads contractors is important for this type of program, but difficult to
achieve. The original intention was to put the contractors' association in charge of training,
but its capacity and interest to do so were not fully assessed. The issue of training private
contractors, especially in countries that traditionally lack this expertise, needs to be treated
more vigorously from the beginning.
*   Mobilizing local' counterpart funding for rural road rehabilitation is difficult in the poorest
areas. At the mid-term review it was decided to take only the local labor contribution into
account, increase the contribution from the national budget in order to boost poverty
alleviation and consider lowering the road standards. Counterpart contributions are likely to
be difficult to collect in areas lacking cash crops. Success can be achieved by using resources
from other sources and possibly by reducing standards.
*   It is important for road maintenance systems to be promoted and helped to develop. This is a
multifaceted effort involving training of private contractors of all sizes and ensuring that they
can have access to the necessary capital and equipment. The success of AGETUR activities in
Benin in this and previous projects has demonstrated how small contractors can be helped to
develop in urban areas. This project has begun to demonstrate how private contracting can be
promoted for maintaining trunk and mral roads.
* In this project, the importance of an independent road fund has once again been demonstrated,
corroborating the experience of other African countries.
- 14 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implententing agencl':
Comments of the implementing agency:
Credit no. 2924-BEN became effective on March 6, 1997, exactly three months after signing.
This early progress led to high expectations for project implementation. At the closing of the
Credit on December 2001, it was evident that good results had been achieved. However, all of
the objectives had not been achieved.
Project closing was done under conditions that did not meet all the original expectations.
Actually, the Credit Agreement was closed without a clear means identified for finalizing the
contracts under implementation and without continuing the remaining activities of the project
which were still being financed under the,credit. Requests made by MTPT were not successful.
The only exception proposed was to finalize the unfinished components from the national budget.
To accomplish this, it would have been necessary to have the non-disbursed amount of the MTPT
credit in the national budget. This situation was not in accordance to earlier agreements with the
Bank. The progranmmatic lending operation proposed between the Bank and MFE to cover this
type of shortfall has not been initiated as discussed.
In principle, budgetary reform would be beneficial, but like any reform affecting behavior and
culture, it needs lengthy preparation. To move quickly without adequate preparation would be
costly for the country. To succeed, the reform must be flexible, progressive and adaptable. It
should not be dogmatic and harsh. There is still time to reconsider the proposed method.
'b) Cofinanciers:
Cromments have been received from the Nordic Development Fund and incorporated into the report.
1'c) Otiler partners (NGOs/private sector):
][0. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lndicatodUatrix                    Projected In bst PSR                  ActuaLatest Esimate
Grwth of PAC balfic (2.56 M tons by Year  2.50M                             Adcieved
2000)
Number of days to dear a cortair      30                                    28
level of RF resourcs (3,380 M CFAF by  Objective met in 2000.               Adieved
Year 1999):
Level of RF routn mahiten  expenses   5.000 M CFAC                          Ahieved
(2.749 M CFAF by Year 2000)
Yeafly kcm of roads regraveled/rehablilated  on target                      on trget
(about 300 km rehablitated and 500 km
grave_e every year):
% of roads in bad condibion (deease from  10%                               to be met
50 % In 1996 to 0 % by Year 2000)
Km of feeder roads transferred to local  ongoing                            50
pagrters (300 km by Year 2000):
Output Indicators:
indicatoulatrix                     Projected in last PSR                AcudlLatest Esdmate
Pivate conaer handing company         Privazation                           Liberaltion (3. co anIes)
Reforms of CNSB                       Autobnomus entit Ayh
Operabonal fanal m    angment system at Operaona and efficienl              Not iprovwed.
fe Port
Cordainer handing performance (contanrs  24 adiNeved by private entities.   Aceved. However, SOBEMAP
per hour)                                                                   pefrmance stl amund 15 containers per
hour
Perfomance of the Port Fadiation (number 3 days                             20 days
of days In te port to dear a contaer)
Growth-f the Port traffic             AGR = 2.6%                            10-15%
Por Debt rabo                         35%                                   65
Coractn a    toil mads mangement
Road routine mainenancanfcng (100%    100%                                  Achieved
needs are covered).
Colection rate of road fund resources  100%                                 Aceved
Road condiions (% in bad condidlon)   10%                                   Acfieved
Loca contractors deveopmen (numTber of  30                                  50
SMEs awarded) 1996 = 0, in road
maintnance wotks
Number of days to dear _cos' hvoices 30 days                                23
Bid evaluation, sign   of ntracts (number 50 -60                            69
of days)
Nwnber of rura communue (rnproved     6                                     6
acaess to)
End of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
A. Port Operations and Management                   5.71           0.99         17.34
B. Road Repair, Maintenance, Safety and Networkl   32.10          28.11         87.57
Management
C. Rural Road Rehabilitation and Management         3.08           0.95         30.84
D. Urban Road Improvements and Traffic Management   4.33          2.33          53.81
Total Baseline Cost                                45.22          32.38
Total Project Costs            45.22          32.38
Total Financing Required            45.22          32.38
ProJect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category     TC8          NCB                       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    20.73        12.45         0.00         0.00        33.18
(17.68)      (10.74)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (28.42)
2. Goods                    0.72          0.14         0.10         0.00         0.96
(0.61)       (0.12)       (0.09)        (0.00)      (0.82)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         10.99        0.00        10.99
ConsultancTes, NGOs, TA,    (0.00)       (0.00)      (10.67)       (0.00)       (10.67)
Studies & Training
4. Operating &              0.00          0.00         0.09         0.00         0.09
Maintenance Costs
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.09)       (0.00)      (0.09)
Total                    21.45         12.59        11.18         0.00        45.22
,_______________________   (18.29)       (10.86)      (10.85)      (0.00)       (40.00)
- 17-



Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (ActualLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          OtherN.B.F.               Total Cost
1. Works                        8.66          17.25         0.00          0.00         25.91
(6.51)        (15.67)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (22.18)
2. Goods                        0.48          0.95          0.00          0.00          1.43
(0.41)        (0.90)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.31)
3. Services                     0.89          0.36          3.68          0.00          4.93
Consultancies, NGOs, TA,       (0.89)        (0.36)        (3.65)        (0.00)        (4.90)
Studies & Training
4. Operating &                  0.00          0.00          0.11          0.00          0.11
Maintenance Costs
0 ()        (0.00)        (0.1 1)        (0.00)        (0.1 1)
Total                       10.03          18.56         3.79           0.00         32.38
_ _ _  (7.81)      (16.93)        (3.76)       (0.00)        (28.50)
PPF advance included under Services.
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project. and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv lent)
Percentage of Appraisa
Component             Appraisal Estimate          ActuaVLatest Estimate
IDA      GovL      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.     IDA   Govt    CoF.
A. Port Operations and   5.30      0.41                0.88      0.05              16.6   12.2
Management
B. Road Repair,         27.82      4.29               24.60      3.57     2.70     88.4   83.2
Maintenance, Safety and
Network Management
C. Rural Road            2.88      0.20               0.95       0.05              33.0   25.0
Rehabilitation and
Management
D. Urban Road            4.01      0.32               2.07       0.21              51.6   65.6
Improvements and Traffic
Management
-18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
_                        .            .              AC1IARASAL            ESI DAUAL  _
RO)AD SECTIONS                                                                          REt_A       NPV
_KM      COST    COSTI KM TRAFFI Oa     COSTr   COST/ KM TRAFFIC iRI     VALUE
PEHUNCO-KEROU 72,641 342 0OO 000 4 708 085     40     6 15841 988  8 477 884    108    17       20 171,27
KEROU-LIMfI     25,947 94 000 000 3 622 769  43     3    104 248 10255 685     192 17,50       20 146,39
DEPARTEMENT-      41,55 94 000000 2 262 335   48    10 17 277 929 7 636 051     124  1,40       20
BANEKORA                  _ -
BANiKOARA-      69,372 5030 000 7 250 764    86    71 545 627 9 536 205       26 52,70         15  2319,63
KANDI             I_                                        _
FGIENE/UUU    42,35 465 000 000 10 979 929  16  -8  9459 008 20 530 319      50 -9,50       30
ZA1AN.IGOLO     12,09 129 000 00 10 669 975  402  5   10418 215  9 133 020    449   66        15 _765,172
APRO-ADJOHOUN      24,96 200 00000  8 012 821  354   62 81 053 901  7 253 762   513    85        15 2,304,929
OIJAKUE-DJONUGOU     37 449000 0   12 135 135  162    3 438376185  11848005     296   12,1       15
N DALI-NIKUK       55 746 000 000 13 563 636  139  29 651640275  11848005     281  33,1        15 3,507,855
Unit: Cost is in FCFA; Traffic is TMJA; Residual value in %; NPV :Net Present value;
-19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Perfornnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/ear     Count           Specialty                     Progress     Obiective
[dentification/Preparation
06/93                       1    Highway Engineer
10/93                       1   Highway Engineer
12/93                       1   Highway Engineer
I   Urban Management Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
11/94                       1   Highway Engineer
I   Urban Transport Specialist
AppralsallNegotiatdon
03/95                       1    Highway Engineer
I   Port Economist
I   Urban Transport Specialist
I   Principal Engineer
I   Municipal Finance Specialist
I   Road Economist
I   Financial Analyst
06195                       1    Division Chief
/ Highway Engineer
I   Principal Engineer
I   Financial Analyst
11/95                       1   Highway Engineer
I   Financial Analyst
01/96                       1    Highway Engineer
08/96                       I    Highway Engineer
Supervision
12/96                       I   Transport Planner                  S             S
04/97                        1   Transport Planner                 S             HS
06/97                        1   Transport Planner                 S             S
I   Consultant
11/97                        1  Transport Planner                  S             S
04/98                        1   Transport Planner                 S             S
07/98                        1   Sr. Transport Planner             S             S
01/99 Update                                                       S             S
06/99                        1   Sr. Transport Planner             S             S
I   Operations Officer
12/99                        1  Sr. Transport Planer               S             S
I   Operations Officer
I Research Assistant (Intern)
05/0                         1   Sr. Transport Planner             S             S
I   Rural Transport Specialist
I   Research Assistant (Intem)
10/00                        I  Sr. Transport Planner              S             S
02/01                        1   Sr. Transport Planner             S             S
I   Consultant
- 20 -



06101                        1   Sr. Transport Planner             S              S
I   Rural Transport Specialist
I   Consultant
10/01                       1   Sr. Transport Planner              S             S
I   Highway Engineer
ICR
04/02                       1    Highway Engineer                  S              S
2    Consultants                       S              S
I I Program Assistant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation             136.6                       364.9
AppraisaVNegotiation                   125.1                       505.8
Supervision                            104.5                       407.4
ICR
Total                                  367.2                      1,278.1
* as of 06/17/2002 Supervision includes ICR mission.
-21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                      * H   O SU O M   ON   O NA
O Physical                             * H   O SUOM     O N  O NA
n Financial                            O H * SU O M     O N  O NA
n Institutional Development            * H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                       OH    * SUOM     ON   O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             OH    * SUOM     ON   O NA
El Gender                        O H   OSUOM      ON   * NA
n Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      ON   O NA
E Private sector development           0 H O SU O M     0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management             * H O SU O M     0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)              O H   O SUOM     O N  O NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
5.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
] Lending                                         OHS OS       OU    OHUL
] Supervision                                     OHS OS       OU    OHU
0 Overall                                         OHS OS       O U   O HU
4.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
[] Preparation                                   -OHS OS       O U   O HU
[] Government implementation performat....        O HS 0 S     O U   0 HU
[] Implementation agencyperformance               O HS         C s  U  O HU
[ Overall                                         OHS OS       OCU   O HU
-23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
Development Credit Agreement
Mission Aide memoires
Government ICR Contributions (Rapport d'achevernent et Synthse du rapport d'achevement)
-24 -






X-IIVIR1..IIG                  - N__
Report No.:        24379
Type:     ICR



