Report No. PID533
Project Name                   Benin-Transport Sector Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     BJPA117
Implementing Agency            Government of the Republic of Benin
Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MTPT) B.P. 08-1159
Cotonou, Benin
Phone:  229 - 31 46 64;   31 32 04
Fax: 229 - 31 28 51
Date Initial PID Prepared      August 2, 1994
Date This PID Prepared         November 28, 1995
Project Appraisal Date         March 1995
Projected Board Date           October 31, 1996
1.   Background:  Strategically positioned between Nigeria and the
former French colonies on the Gulf of Guinea, Benin is a small, narrow
country with a long history as a regional trading center. A natural
transport corridor for landlocked Niger and western Nigeria, Benin+s
highly open economy and low transport costs give it unquestionable
advantages in the transit trade to and from the Sahel in spite of
facilitation difficulties within Benin. Beninese traders are also well
placed to play the intermediary between the huge Nigerian market and
Benin's francophone neighbors.
2.   Benin's prosperity depends heavily on trade and transport, and its
transport sector is a major contributor to national income. The formal
transport sector accounted for 8 percent of GDP in 1993. The transport
sector is organized to meet three principal aspects of demand: domestic
cotton exports, transit traffic and trade with neighboring countries,
and internal trade between towns and rural areas. The emergence of a
new political and economic environment beginning in 1990 created new
opportunities to pursue and deepen reforms in the transport sector, and
to reinforce its ability to meet economic challenges. These
opportunities were reflected in studies carried out in 1992 by MTPT,
completed in April 1993, which formed the basis for a new transport
strategy, focusing primarily on facilitation, fiscal/financial and
capacity building issues.
3.   Project Objectives.   In light of the objectives of Government+s
reinforced overall adjustment strategy as supported by IDA+s SAL III,
the proposed project focuses on infrastructure maintenance and
rehabilitation, supporting rural production, encouraging private sector
supply response, mobilizing domestic resources through user charges, and
building institutional capacity. The proposed project would support
activities required to ensure that existing road and port infrastructure
function well at full capacity through the end of the century. The
project also supports relatively new Government policies to increase



user participation in road maintenance finance and management, as in the
case of rural road maintenance, and to facilitate private sector
construction industry participation in maintenance works contracting, in
particular for small urban improvements.
4.   Project Description:   The main components of the project are: (a)
Port Operations and Management: civil works to decongest the port and
support to the port authority; (b) Road repair, maintenance, safety and
network management: priority civil works on inter-urban roads,
primarily periodic maintenance and elimination of all trouble spots on
the earth network, plus support to the MTPW; (c) Rural road
rehabilitation and management; (d) Urban traffic management: road
works required to improve road safety and traffic conditions in the city
of Cotonou.
5.   Project Financing:   The total Project Cost is estimated at US$45.4
million. The proposed IDA credit of US$40 million will finance 88
percent of project cost net of taxes and duties. The local counterpart
share of US$5.4 million will be financed as follows: (a) US$4.4 million
by Government; (b) US$0.6 million by project beneficiaries; and (c)
US$.4 by PAC.
6.   Project Implementation:   The project is expected to take about five
years to implement and is scheduled for completion by June 30, 2000.
Its implementation is linked to the implementation the five-year
priority transport program of which it is a part, to be managed by an
interministerial committee chaired by the Planning Ministry, and to be
reviewed during biannual donor meetings that the committee would
organize. Overall management of the proposed IDA project would be
carried out by the Cabinet Director of the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works. Individual components would be implemented as follows:
the port component by the port authority, and all other components by
the Ministry of Transport and Public Works through its Road Directorate,
DROA. The urban works agency, AGETUR, created under the ongoing urban
project (Cr. 2338-BEN), would be hired to carry out most works in the
urban component. The municipality of Cotonou would finance and manage
the Traffic Management Unit to be established under the proposed
project.
7.   Project Sustainability:   Benin+s record of success in transport
sector operations has now brought it to a position close to independence
from external assistance, except for major capacity expansions. A major
factor contributing to this record of success has been the unusual
degree of continuity of Government technical managers through a number
of changes of government. Provided there is no major disruption of
technical management staff, project improvements should be sustainable.
8.   Lessons Learned from Past Operations:   Main lessons learned from
past operations are as follows: (a) road maintenance must be funded by
broad-based user charges, not general taxation, because the latter does
not capture any revenue from the large number of informal sector
operators; (b) a single sector strategy must be followed by all actors
and donors; and (c) the involvement of users and operators is a major
factor for the improvement of transport facilitation and efficiency.
- 2 -



9.   Poverty Category:   To support the country±s poverty alleviation
objectives, the transport strategy supported by the project aims at:
(a) reducing the cost of transport overall; (b) improving access to
isolated areas; and (c) supporting operations that create job
opportunities for low-skill workers.
10. Environmental Aspects: The Project is classified as Category B.
Since no new roads will be opened up under this project, the expected
environmental impacts will be milder than in the case of new roads.
Negative environmental impacts such as dust and quarry erosion will be
of short-term duration, with adequate mitigating measures (such as
frequent watering of work sites to reduce dust) specified in the
description of works submitted to companies in order to prepare bids.
Positive environmental long-term impacts will be achieved by improving
safety through improved maintenance and the elimination of hazardous
road sections, improving bridge and drainage works.
11. Program Objective Categories: The primary program objective is
environmentally sustainable development. Secondary program objectives
are economic management, private sector development, and human resources
development.
12. Project Benefits: All port and road improvements will reduce
transport time and vehicle operating costs, reduce the cost of transport
and of goods carried, and encourage trade and agricultural production.
In the port, improvements in productivity yield shipper savings in road
transport, incurred when port congestion in Cotonou diverts traffic to
Lome, and physical improvement s in the port yield cost savings to
forklift and other cargo-handling vehicles. On national, rural and
urban roads, improved road surfaces yield vehicle operating cost
savings.
13. Project Risks: Project risks are limited to three new and
innovative activities introduced under the project: (a) the inability
of Government to reverse the decline in Road Fund financing; (b) the
capacity of DROA to restructure its staffing; and (c) the actual
involvement of local communities and the effectiveness of NGOs in rural
road management. Concerning (a), the diversification of funding sources
collected directly by the Road Fund through road tolls and freight
surcharges should reduce the likelihood of this risk. Concerning (b),
the Road Directorate (DROA) has initiated and directed the design of its
own reorganization, and financing for the restructuring will be ensured
through the Road Fund. As for (c), IDA has already acquired some
experience in this area from the use of similar arrangement in the Rural
Water and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2622-BEN). Local and/or international
NGOs used to offering support to local communities will be carefully
screened and will receive adequate training and support.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
-3-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



