Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2924 BEN
Agetur Project Agreement
(Transport Sector Investment Program)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX URBAINS
Dated December 6, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2924 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX URBAINS (AGETUR):
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
AGETUR agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
AGETUR (the AGETUR Subsidiary Agreement), part of the proceeds of the credit provided 
for under the Development Credit Agreement (the Credit) will be made available to 
AGETUR on the terms and conditions set forth in the AGETUR Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (C) AGETUR, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AGETUR declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part D.2 of Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and road 
construction practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower, the Association and AGETUR shall otherwise agree, AGETUR 
shall carry out Part D.2 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, required for Part D.2 the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit made available to AGETUR by the Borrower, shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AGETUR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and  9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, 
respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement and Part D.2 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitations thereto, AGETUR shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of Part D.2 of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. AGETUR shall duly perform all its obligations under the AGETUR 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGETUR shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the AGETUR Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AGETUR shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part D.2 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the AGETUR Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
AGETUR shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D.2 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGETUR of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the AGETUR Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGETUR
Section 3.01. AGETUR shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices, under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. AGETUR shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.03. AGETUR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
Page  3
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGETUR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
AGETUR shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AGETUR thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify AGETUR of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or fax to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  4
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For AGETUR:
Agence d'Execution des Travaux Urbains
B.P. 2780
Cotonou
Benin
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGETUR or 
under the Development Credit Agreement by AGETUR on behalf of the Borrower, may be 
taken or executed by the Director General of AGETUR or such other person or persons as 
he shall have designated in writing, and AGETUR shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX URBAINS
By /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin
Authorized Representative
