Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2924 BEN 
Pac Project Agreement
(Transport Sector Investment Program)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PORT AUTONOME DE COTONOU
Dated December 6, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2924 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1996 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and PORT AUTONOME DE COTONOU (PAC):
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three 
million three hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,350,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that PAC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PAC 
(the PAC Subsidiary Agreement), part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement (the Credit) will be made available to PAC on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the PAC Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (C) PAC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PAC declares its commitment to the objectives of Part A of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and port-management 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required therefor.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower, the Association and PAC shall otherwise agree, PAC shall 
carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services, required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to PAC by the Borrower, 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PAC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement 
and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitations thereto, PAC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of Part A of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. PAC shall duly perform all its obligations under the PAC 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PAC shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the PAC Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PAC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the PAC Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
PAC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PAC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the PAC Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PAC
Section 3.01. PAC shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and port-management 
practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PAC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and port-management practices.
Page  3
Section 3.03. PAC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PAC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
PAC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PAC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify PAC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or fax to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For PAC:
Port Autonome de Cotonou
Avenue de la Marina
B.P. 927
Cotonou
Benin
Telex:
5004 Dirport
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PAC or under 
the Development Credit Agreement by PAC on behalf of the Borrower, may be taken or 
executed by the Director General of PAC or such other person or persons as PAC he 
shall have designated in writing, and PAC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-parts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
PORT AUTONOME DE COTONOU
By /s/ Lucien Tounoukouin
Authorized Representative
