             Document of
          The World Bank




                                        Report No: 32391

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (TF-21999)

                ON A

              GRANT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

                 TO

               INDIA

              FOR A

OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES II PROJECT




             May 18, 2005

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2004)

                          Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
                                  US$ 1 = Rs.46.11

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              April 1   March 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFC          Chlorofluorocarbon, an ozone depleting substance
CP           Country Program
CTC          Carbon Tetrachloride, an ozone depleting substance
ExCom        Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund
FA           Financial Agent
FY           Fiscal Year
GoI          Government of India
IA           Implementing Agency
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDBI         Industrial Development Bank of India
IOC          Incremental Operating Costs
KG           kilogram
LC           Letter of Credit
MAC          Mobile Air-Conditioning
MoEF         Ministry of Environment and Forests
MP           Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
MLF          Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MT           Metric Ton, a unit of measure equivalent to 1000 kilograms
MTR          Mid-Term Review
OC           Ozone Cell of India's Ministry of Environment and Forests
ODP          Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS          Ozone Depleting Substance
OTF          Ozone Projects Trust Fund
PCR          Project Completion Report
PIM          Project Implementation Manual
PSR          Project Status Report
SGA          Sub-Grant Agreement
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNEP         United Nations Environment Programme
UNIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Programme

                         Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
                        Country Director   Michael F. Carter
                        Sector Manager     Jeffrey S. Racki
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Bilal H. Rahill

                                            INDIA
                          OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              5
6. Sustainability                                                                  6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   7
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            20
Annex 8. Partner Comments - Ministry of Environment and Forests                  21
Annex 9. Parter Comments - Industrial Development Bank of India                  22

Project ID: P031829                                                  Project Name: OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES II
Team Leader: Bilal H. Rahill                                         TL Unit: SASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES II                            L/C/TF Number: TF-21999
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (97%); Banking (3%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/01/2005                                     Effective: 03/01/1995                05/09/1995
     Appraisal: 05/16/1994                                         MTR:                             11/14/2002
      Approval: 03/02/1995                                      Closing: 09/30/2000                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MOEF THROUGH IDBI/IDBI WITH MOEF OVERSIGHT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                D. Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Jeffrey S. Racki                               Luis Ernesto Derbez
Team Leader at ICR:             Bilal H. Rahill                                Naimeh Hadjitarkhani
ICR Primary Author:             Sidney F. Thomas (Cons); Bilal
                                H. Rahill


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives presented in the Memorandum of the Director were to "(a) establish an effective, flexible
mechanism to prepare, appraise, finance and implement a large group of subprojects through local institutions; (b)
support India's total ODS phaseout program; (c) implement cost-effective subprojects; and (d) provide a basis for
an ODS phaseout schedule at or ahead of current target."

3.2 Revised Objective:
While not changing the foregoing statement of objective in any operational sense, a more comprehensive statement
of objective focusing on environmental outcomes was adopted in FY00 for the purposes of the Bank's Project
Status Report (PSR) system (see Sect. 7.2) as follows: "The global objective being pursued through this project is to
support an accelerated recovery of the stratospheric ozone layer through the elimination of the use of substances
that contribute to the depletion of the ozone layer, namely chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and related chemicals, more
commonly referred to as Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). The elimination of the use of ODS is achieved
through the replacement of ODS-using manufacturing operations with equipment and production technologies that
do not use ODS. While it is not possible to measure the impact of ODS elimination in India on the health of the
ozone layer, all ODS phaseout contribute to reducing the load of ODS in the stratosphere and, hence, the rate of
ozone depletion. In this context therefore the best surrogate indicator for India's contribution to protection of the
ozone layer is the amount that it phases out of its consumption profile." This revised statement of objective sought
to provide greater emphasis on desired outcomes, particularly for PSR users unfamiliar with the Montreal Protocol
and its global objectives. The original project objectives remained entirely appropriate in terms of operational
outcomes.

3.3 Original Components:
There were two original components, respectively: (a) US$48.5 million allocated for approved ODS phaseout
subprojects, and: (b) US$1.5 million for the local financial intermediary fee, amounting to 3% of the total Ozone
Projects Trust Fund (OTF) grant of US$50.0 million.

             No.                 Component                                Allocation

              1     Subgrants to support ODS Phaseout                             $48,500,000.00
              2     Financial agency fee                                           $1,500,000.00
                    TOTAL                                                         $50,000,000.00


3.4 Revised Components:
These components have not been revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A rating of satisfactory is warranted for quality at entry. This was a straightforward project, well conceived at the
time it was approved. The Bank was still feeling its way forward in managing the responsibility it had agreed to by
becoming an Implementing Agency (IA) of the Multilateral Fund (MLF) for the Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol (the Protocol), together with the United Nations (UN) agencies UNDP, UNIDO, and UNEP. As an IA, the
Bank was tasked with the identification and implementation oversight of subprojects to reduce the consumption of
ODS. All subprojects are subject to approval by the Executive Committee (ExCom) of the MLF. Prior to the
present project (referred to as ODS II), the Bank had designed and started implementing the Reduction of
Consumption of Ozone Depleting Substances Project (ODS I), comprising two subprojects totaling US$1.25
million. It quickly became apparent that in the Indian context, the number of such subprojects would be too many
for the Bank to handle directly. Therefore, ODS II was conceived as an "umbrella project" (one of the first in the
Bank's Montreal Protocol program), to be intermediated through a local financial agent, which would assume the
responsibility to "prepare, appraise, finance and implement" all the subprojects that would be identified for
implementation under the project. Six subsectors were identified for emphasis, consistent with the broader country
strategy for Montreal Protocol compliance, as outlined in India's 1993 Country Program (CP): domestic
refrigeration, mobile air-conditioning (MAC), commercial refrigeration, halon-based fire-fighting equipment,



                                                          - 2 -

aerosols, and solvents. The project was a well conceived response to the country need, and well designed in its
essential aspect ­ that of the umbrella project ­ given the Bank's own limitations in respect of the retail aspect of
the operation. Nevertheless, there were some shortcomings, as discussed below.

One critical shortcoming in the quality at entry is that the demand risk (given the umbrella framework with only
partial pipeline development) which was foreseen was not well enough mitigated in the design. In the absence of
any financial incentive (such as operational cost savings associated with the introduction and use of non-ODS
technologies) or market pressure to the enterprises in carrying out the subprojects, it is reasonable to think that
regulatory pressure was going to be necessary to support demand. This was not built into the design of the project1.
 For certain subsectors exposed to international competition (domestic refrigeration, MAC, and aerosols in
particular), the project was not only ripe, but urgently needed, with competitive pressures very much driving early
conversion. For example, in the domestic refrigerator and large chiller markets, the import competition touted their
"eco-friendly" products, which forced domestic makers to move to early conversion. For other subsectors (notably
commercial refrigeration and solvents, dominated by small-scale enterprises relatively insulated from global
market pressures) there was neither financial incentive nor regulatory compulsion in place, and for these the
project was unripe. For the latter, regulatory compulsion, in the form of ODS Rules and Regulations promulgated
in 2000, was in the end necessary. It is unlikely that the Government could have proceeded quickly enough in this
regard, given procedural, political, and other inertia, to have introduced the needed regulatory framework at project
inception. Rather, the present project provided a basis for policy dialogue with the Government on the regulatory
framework which was needed, and which made the difference in the "unripe" subsectors, albeit too late to avoid
delays in completing subproject implementation.

It should be noted though that such delay did not vitiate the achievement of the broader Protocol objective of ODS
phaseout, nor the broader Protocol-mandated timetable. At the time of ODS II approval, the Protocol-mandated
phaseout deadlines faced by India were threefold: (a) a 1999 freeze on chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) consumption
equal to the average consumption for 1995-97 (i.e., the baseline); (b) an interim reduction target in 2005 equal to
50% of the foregoing freeze level; and (c) total phaseout by 2010. Thus, from the standpoint of the Protocol
deadlines, it was not critical that conversion in the unripe subsectors be completed by the original Closing Date in
FY00. Therefore, either or both, a later closing date should have been set from the beginning, and/or, regulatory
reform sufficient to compel action in the unripe subsectors, should have been made a dated covenant.

It is noteworthy that ODS II was succeeded by two projects, each one introducing procedural enhancements and
streamlining of the administrative framework for subproject implementation oversight. ODS III (US$82 million;
approved FY00; closing FY10), addressed the specific circumstances (essentially lost-profit compensation) of CFC
producers. ODS III adopted a performance-based disbursement approach tied to actual reduction achieved in CFC
production and subject to third party inspection. Then came ODS IV (US$52 million; approved FY05; closing
FY10), recently approved by the MLF to address the requirements of carbon tetrachloride (CTC) producers and
users. Again, a performance-based approach has been adopted. The innovation in the case of ODS IV is that the
performance-based disbursement has been extended to CTC consuming enterprises, for conversion subprojects, and
not just for CTC producers. Furthermore, ODS IV is proceeding on a standard-cost basis, by subsector, for
conversion subprojects. This approach, while it may entail some unevenness in treatment, effectively requiring
subproject beneficiaries in many cases to shoulder a share of the incremental cost of conversion, is considered
necessary by the MLF if the now looming phaseout deadline of 2010 is to be met.




____________________
1 The feasibility of including a regulatory framework as part of the project was probably marginal at best given the
phaseout schedule in effect and the pressures from some parts of industry to delay ODS phaseout as long as
possible.




                                                           - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome is rated as satisfactory. Ninety percent of the ODS abatement anticipated was achieved, at only 60%
of the cost anticipated. But for falling slightly short of abatement target, and the implementation delay, the rating
would have been "highly satisfactory." The total amount phased out by some 83 subprojects is estimated to be
5,400 MT ODP basis, as compared with an appraisal estimate of 6,000 MT ODP. The appraisal figure is 6,999 MT
ODP, but this was based on mis-calculations subsequently corrected. If not for a small number of subproject
cancellation, the actual ODP phaseout captured by the project would have exceeded the 6000 MT ODP2 figure. On
this bottom-line measure, the project was clearly a success. Notwithstanding the additional time required to
complete subproject implementation, the level of abatement achieved occurred well before the target year of 2010
for ODS phaseout established under the Protocol. India was able to meet its interim targets (Sect. 3.5) with respect
to the year 1999 limit, thanks to a significant extent to the present project, and appears set to meet its year 2005
reduction limit (see Annex 1, Figure 1). Therefore, we would expect the Government and the MLF to have been
pleased at the outcome.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The main project component consisted of what turned out to be 83 subprojects aimed at ODS abatement, measured
in terms of annual ODP tons abated due to conversion to non-ODS processes. As mentioned, ODS abated is
estimated to be 5,400 ODP tons. This level of abatement was obtained at a cost of US$30.2 million, 60% of what
was anticipated (US$50.0 million). Thus, phaseout efficiency achieved, in terms of cost per kg of ODP abatement
achieved, was better than anticipated at appraisal: US$5.59/kg actual vs. US$8.33/kg anticipated (but see Sect.
5.4).

The second project component consisted of the intermediary fee to IDBI, the financial intermediary. IDBI's
compensation was based on a percentage (3%) of disbursements. Therefore, compared to anticipated fee earnings
of US$1.5 million at the outset, actual earnings were about US$0.9 million. In addition, these earnings were spread
over ten years, instead of five. Not only was IDBI's compensation less than anticipated, its resource expenditure
was probably double, in line with actual (83) v/s. anticipated (40) numbers of subprojects. Moreover, IDBI's burden
in intermediating the project was also considerably increased when the requirement of preparing subproject
completion reports (PCRs) was later imposed. Perhaps understandably, therefore, IDBI has complained about the
adequacy of its compensation, and more specifically, would have preferred, in hindsight, to have been
compensated, in part, on a service-provider basis under a technical assistance component.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
ODS conversion projects provide no economic return to the enterprises affected.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
ODS conversion projects provide no financial return to the enterprises affected.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project sought to achieve the institutional development objective of "establish[ing] an effective, flexible
mechanism to prepare, appraise, finance and implement a large group of subprojects through local institutions."
IDBI was able, through learning by doing, to develop the necessary institutional capacity to intermediate a line
comprising 83 subprojects, and Ozone Cell provided adequate policy and regulatory support in this effort. To that
extent, the main institutional development objective was achieved. Indeed, IDBI has been retained again in ODS
III and ODS IV, albeit with truncated responsibilities under the new performance-based approach (Sect. 3.5 and
7.2). The rating in this respect is satisfactory.
____________________
2 The appraisal figure is 6,999 MT ODP, but this was based on mis-calculations subsequently corrected. If not for
a small number of subproject cancellation, the actual ODP phaseout captured by the project would have exceeded
the 6000 MT ODP figure.




                                                           - 4 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The factors beyond the control of Government and IA are those pertaining to the role of the MLF, which retained
subgrant approval authority for all subprojects, regardless of size ­ although the Grant Agreement vested the Bank
with approval authority under US$500K ­ and which required direct subproject progress and completion reporting
to it. This affected implementation in the following ways: (a) over the life of the project, the cost-effectiveness level
that the MLF was willing to finance kept on dropping, reducing what the disbursements otherwise might have
been; (b) there were two instances, involving the same enterprise, where reimbursement claims were denied at the
level of the MLF, and Government found it difficult to take up the enterprise's appeal at the ExCom (see Sect. 5.4);
and c) with respect to subproject reporting required of the local intermediary, this imposed unanticipated costs on
IDBI and the Bank.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The principal shortcoming of implementation consisted in delay, due to insufficient financial incentive and/or
regulatory compulsion (Sect. 3.5). Clearly, it was within Government's power to introduce the required regulatory
framework, which it did in 2000. The ODS Rules (2000) came too late to avert the delay in implementation, but it
stimulated a second wave of subprojects and an acceleration of implementation of the delayed projects. Had the
ODS Rules been promulgated five years earlier, at the time of project inception, it seems likely that the
implementation delay could have been at least partially averted. The Government was, however, under no
obligation under the Grant Agreement to adopt and announce the ODS Rules any sooner than it did. Furthermore,
India's ODS Rules is recognized as one of the most proactive piece of legislation for control of ODS amongst
developing countries.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
IDBI did a generally creditable job of marketing and selling the line of grant, and of delivering its services. With
help from the Bank and its consultants, it identified, marketed, appraised, on-financed, and supervised subprojects
in the key affected subsectors of commercial refrigeration, domestic refrigeration, mobile air-conditioning (MACs),
foams, aerosols, halons/fire-fighting, and solvents. Clearly, given the delays that were experienced, the question is
raised whether IDBI was deficient in fulfilling its intermediary function. It is certainly possible that IDBI could
have put more than the 2-3 full-time officers that were assigned to it, with faster results. However, neither was this
level of staffing unreasonable. On the other side, IDBI could reasonably claim a variety of reasons to account for
the delays: (a) lack of regulatory pressure inhibiting demand (Sect. 3.5); (b) lack of leverage under the terms of the
subgrants to provide incentive to subgrant beneficiaries for timely implementation in the absence of pure pecuniary
incentive through operational cost savings; (c) reliance on consultants for subproject identification and appraisal
over which it had no real influence; (d) lack of provision for technical training of IDBI staff in the issues connected
with ODS-to-non-ODS conversion in the relevant subsectors; and (e) the lack of an operational manual for the
clear guidance of both IDBI staff and subgrant beneficiaries in the processing of the subgrant through the various
stages of the subproject cycle. While these claims could reasonably shift blame to the project designers, IDBI's low
level of proactivity was certainly a contributory cause. As project intermediary they must share responsibility for
project design, and with sufficient initiative on their part, these impediments could have been overcome. Many of
these issues and `missed opportunities' for enhancing implementation performance in the early days of the project
were identified and analyzed in the Mid-Term Review (2002).

5.4 Costs and financing:
Out of US$50.0 million provisioned under this umbrella project, commitments (subgrants approved) totaled
approximately US$33.0 million, out of which disbursements at closing amounted to US$30.2 million, for a 90%
disbursement rate. There is no cancellation required given that the US$50 million amount was a notional amount
and actual approvals were conveyed on a sub-project by sub-project basis in accordance with decision of the
Executive Committee. A small number of subprojects were cancelled due to enterprise bankruptcies or refusal to
move forward with implementation. Forty subprojects estimated at appraisal swelled to 83. Compared with an
estimated US$1.25 million per subgrant at appraisal, the final actual figure was US$364 thousand. In part, the
reason for the over-estimate lay in the relative weight in the relevant pipeline sample given to the early subprojects,
including those carried out under ODS I, which were individually larger than the long tail of later subprojects. In



                                                          - 5 -

this context, it may also be mentioned that several of the beneficiary enterprises complained of what they
considered to be legitimate claims being disallowed. Of 16 enterprises visited as a sample during the ICR mission,
three had complaints with respect to cost reimbursement:

a) Godrej Enterprises, makers of domestic refrigerators, felt it was still owed approximately US$600K from the
ExCom, the case for which was not however taken up by the Government on its behalf at ExCom. Godrej also
sought, following the reduction in their share ownership structure of foreign participation, a revision in their
compensation to reflect what it would have been in the absence of the earlier foreign ownership, but were denied
there as well;

b) Manali Petrochemicals stated that it was denied compensation for the cost of in-house development of
conversion technology, in place of the provision which had been made for the equivalent technology import. They
think the denial was not justified (reason given by the Bank, they claim, was simply that the "file was closed"). The
Government did not take up their claim with the ExCom, and the company, not wanting to "make waves", did not
press the matter; and

c) Voltas made an informal request for additional funding, on account of increased incremental operating cost,
which was turned down; no formal request was made, therefore there was no exchange of supporting
correspondence.

While it was not possible in the context of preparing this ICR to form any reliable judgment on the merits of these
claims, what nevertheless seems clear is that as a matter of process, the affected enterprises feel, apparently with
some justification, that their cases were not properly heard, and in any case, they had no right of recourse, in terms
of appealing the decisions. Government, for its part, said that processes at the ExCom did not easily allow them to
place such appeals on the agenda.

It may also be mentioned that there were about three enterprises which had their cost reimbursement claims
reduced due to increased foreign ownership during project implementation, which reduced their grant funds
proportionately, in contrast to the Godrej case above, where reduction in foreign ownership did not translate into a
proportionate increase in cost reimbursement.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability (in the sense that the ODS consumption phased out under the project will stay phased out) is rated as
highly likely (see Annex 1, Figure 1). At a policy level, the ODS Rules (2000) are being strictly enforced, which
means that legal trade of CFCs is restricted and monitored. Moreover, all ODS-producing countries, except North
Korea, are parties to the Protocol, therefore the international market for the substances ­ mostly CFCs, but also
halons, CTC, and 1,1,1-trichloroethane (TCA) ­ that have been phased out under this project is expected to be
phased out internationally in line with the requirements of the Protocol, leading in all likelihood to an absence of
supply post-2010. Having converted to non-ODS processes, there is little likelihood that an enterprise would revert,
given the cost of re-conversion, and given that in the not too distant future supply availability will be illegal, and
therefore uncertain at best, and likely at prohibitive prices should suppliers seek to flout the Protocol. Finally, it
should be noted that in those cases where the old equipment could be brought back into ODS-based operation, the
subgrant agreements required that they be destroyed. In the sample of enterprises visited as part of the preparation
of this ICR, it was verified that the engineer-certified destruction had indeed taken place, as destroyed equipment
had been retained for such inspection.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations for this project is straightforward: it occurs for each subproject at the
completion of each conversion subproject, and the resumption of operations using the non-ODS substitute. At the
aggregate level, for the country as a whole, the Government of India is obligated to certify phaseout compliance
under the Protocol. By 2010, India is supposed to have phased out a variety of ODS, including all of those



                                                           - 6 -

addressed under the project. Indian compliance in the aggregate can be monitored. Should there be significant
non-compliance at the country level, it may be advisable to revisit inter alia beneficiary enterprises under the
present project to check whether there has been reversion to the use of ODS substances.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the area of lending is rated satisfactory overall, and also in all of the areas comprising
lending, respectively identification, preparation, and appraisal.

With respect to identification, the project was well conceived, as earlier discussed (Sect. 3.5). ODS II was designed
as an umbrella project intermediated through a local financial institution, when it became clear that the direct
approach adopted under ODS I could not be replicated over the dozens of enterprises that would need to carry out
conversion projects.

With respect to preparation, the essential issue was whether to proceed with a closed or open pipeline. In either
case, it would have been necessary to fill even an open pipeline with at least a number of subprojects sufficient to
prove the demand. The Bank did a creditable job of identifying and preparing a number of initial subprojects, with
37 subprojects approved in FY95 alone, the year of inception (Annex 1). Nevertheless, the quality of subproject
preparation came in for some criticism, in respect of the aerosol subsector, as being "cookie-cutter" in approach. In
addition, the absence of a project implementation manual (PIM) and corresponding training arranged for IDBI
staff (Sect. 5.3 and 9(a)) would have been a factor contributing to delay in project implementation. However, it
would seem on balance fair to assign a rating of satisfactory to the Bank's performance in project preparation.

With respect to appraisal, a rating of satisfactory appears warranted, given the fundamental viability of the project
in terms of manifest demand, and basic implementation arrangements. The choice of IDBI as sole financial
intermediary could be well defended, considering the long-standing and ongoing partnership between the Bank and
IDBI, and given that the size of the operation (US$50 million) did not realistically allow for a second intermediary.
A viable set of subprojects was ripe and ready to go as of the time of appraisal. However, a significant cluster of
subprojects was unripe, given the absence of either financial incentive or regulatory compulsion, and inadequate
provision was made to mitigate the attendant risk (Sect. 3.5). The average subproject size was also over-estimated
(Sect. 5.4). Hence, the pace of demand estimated at appraisal was clearly over-optimistic. However, on balance, a
rating of satisfactory appears warranted.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory, although there were some shortcomings.

On the positive side, there was strong continuity in the supervision effort (only 2 task managers over a 10-year
period), there was clear and substantial achievement of target outcomes, and there was exemplary initiative
exercised in fashioning solutions to some ­ particularly disbursement ­ problems that arose. On average, at greater
than two per year, the number of supervision missions was adequate, with a "big push" of four supervision
missions in the first year of implementation, FY96, appropriate and helpful, and continued focused supervision
throughout the final years of project implementation. The introduction of a new set of performance indicators
(several of which tracked IDBI's operational effectiveness) in FY01 provided an enhanced framework for project
supervision and for addressing operational issues.

With respect to shortcomings, more could have been done to address the early implementation delays that were
encountered. It was well recognized in the project document that in order to achieve the 2-3 year commitment
target, "the pace of subproject preparation need[ed] to be accelerated." Therefore it was surprising to find that there
was no project launch workshop to facilitate such acceleration, and thereafter to sustain an appropriate pace of
implementation through the normal subproject processing cycle. Nor was a project implementation manual
prepared for the guidance of intermediary and beneficiaries in the processing of subprojects. Given this lack, there
were attendant delays in subproject processing, even though there was clear success in accelerating the pace of



                                                         - 7 -

project preparation, with some 74 subprojects approved within three years of Project Effectiveness. This early
success was not however enough, as disbursements lagged behind appraisal projections. The solution to the
problem of delay did not lie entirely within the control of the Bank. Fundamentally, the problem was one of
demand, and ripeness, as earlier discussed (Sect. 3.5 and Sect. 5.2). Certainly the situation improved after 2000,
which coincided with supervision responsibility for the project being switched to the New Delhi Office, and the
promulgation of ODS Rules (2000). These Rules were critical in gaining industry's attention, and by exerting the
necessary regulatory compulsion, were instrumental in forcing implementation of those subprojects which were
languishing in the pipeline for lack of financial incentive. It may be noted that the second peak in annual
disbursements occurred in FY02, subsequent to the imposition of ODS Rules, the first having occurred in FY98
(see Annex 1).

One would have expected a Mid-term Review (MTR) to be carried out by FY98, given a completion date in FY00.
In the event, the Closing Date was extended, in early FY01 to FY10, and the MTR carried out in FY03. The
extension of the Closing Date to FY10 was justified inter alia on the basis that the ultimate Protocol-mandated year
of phaseout was 2010, and therefore to the extent there continued to be demand for phaseout subprojects, the line
should be kept open if funds were available, and indeed replenished, if necessary. As part of the justification, it was
also noted that this was the approach, recently at the time, adopted in other countries. The MTR was finally taken
up in FY03, at which time the main finding was that the nearness of the phaseout deadlines ­ 2005 reduction
targets, and 2010 final phaseout ­ required an expedited approach to ODS phaseout, specifically on a sector rather
than subproject-by-subproject basis, with incremental costs established by subsector norm, rather than by enterprise
actuals. ODS III and ODS IV had already been conceived as successor projects (Sect. 3.5) in this regard, and the
decision was taken to allow ODS II to close as soon as the existing pipeline had completed implementation, the
demand having in any case dried up, and ODS III and IV being put in place. The MTR nevertheless provided yet
another opportunity to identify opportunities for enhancing implementation performance all the way through to
closure and to assist IDBI with enhancing its capacity to deal with ODS III (which was already under
implementation) and ODS IV (which was being identified).

Until FY01, there were no formal project supervision ratings filed in the Bank's Project Status Report (PSR)
system, and its predecessor Form 590 reporting system. It would appear that as a Trust Fund project that was not
presented to the Bank's Board for approval, rather approved within the management structure at the level of
Regional Vice President, it fell into a gray area for which the use of formal supervision reporting systems was not
explicitly required, therefore the burdens associated with such reporting (Form 590 initially, later PSR) were
sought to be avoided (this was not uncommon for Montreal Protocol operations). While in terms of process,
supervision clearly suffered as a result during this stage, e.g., with respect to the tardiness of the MTR, it is hard to
sustain the case that supervision was wanting in a substantive sense, given the clearly successful outcome. Other
aspects of good supervision work were followed diligently (aide-memoires, management letters, among others) and
the project was finally integrated into the PSR system in FY01 at the request of the new Task Team Leader.

A word on the cost of supervision is also warranted given that the average cost of supervision over the life of the
project (about US$200,000 per year) amounted to as much as twice that of supervision cost for regular Bank
operations. The main issue with the size of supervision budget is the fact that it is linked to the nature of the Bank's
role as an implementing agency of the Multilateral Fund where the Bank's role and responsibilities include active
support for pipeline development and the process of review of subprojects within the Bank and with the executive
committee of the Multilateral Fund where discussions could be protracted and very time consuming. The funding
for all of these activities is provided through the supervision budget. In the early years, when pipeline development
activities were significant, regular supervision mission were supplemented by numerous pipeline development
mission staffed with technical specialists. The nature of the project also required extensive
administrative/coordination work and a full time consultant was appointed to coordinate the subproject cycle
process which in the end produced over 80 subprojects. Furthermore, in the early years of the project, the Bank
was under tremendous pressure to show some progress on Montreal Protocol implementation and intensive
supervision was strongly supported by the Bank's Environment Department which had responsibility for overall
program management. The annual cost of supervision nevertheless dropped significantly over the years,
amounting to an average of US$100,000 in FY02-FY04, more in line with regular Bank operations.




                                                          - 8 -

With respect to procurement and disbursement rules agreed under the Grant Agreement, there appeared to be no
non-compliance. The Bank was particularly effective in taking the initiative to address the problem of disbursing
against incremental operating costs (IOC). The attempt to reimburse actual IOC is of course difficult because it
requires the monitoring of actual raw material expenditures against pre-project benchmarks, and making
imputations of incrementality to variations from the benchmarks taking into account physical and price variation
due to conversion from ODS to non-ODS technology. This is difficult at best, fraught with methodological issues,
and in any case, slow. Bank proposed and adopted the approach of disbursing against raw material expenditures
until the ex-ante, calculated IOC limit has been reached. This resolved at one stroke the dilemmas otherwise faced,
and moreover facilitated quick disbursement. The drawback to this approach was that IOC disbursements were also
made to at least one enterprise (Madras Polymoulds) that ceased relevant operations due to loss of market, and
therefore incurred very little IOC. With that exception, the approach to IOC disbursements was entirely justified,
and a good example of the exercise of supervisory initiative, well appreciated by IDBI and subproject beneficiaries.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, given a successful outcome, both in terms of ODS abatement
achieved, in terms of helping India to meet its broader Protocol-mandated phaseout deadlines and in terms of the
performance management framework that was introduced during the latter part of project implementation. The
shortcomings in the Bank's performance noted in the foregoing narrative are not such as would vitiate this overall
outcome and rating.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rating is satisfactory. The Ozone Cell of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and the financial
intermediary, IDBI, both staffed adequately for the project, and performed adequately in keeping with their
respective roles. IDBI kept 2-3 staff assigned full-time to the project in the early years, and Ozone Cell provided
adequate support from its core staff. Policy support for the project could ideally have consisted in the issuance of
ODS Rules five years earlier in 1995 (Sect. 3.5). Such a measure would have got the attention of industry, and
made it easier for the intermediary to develop the subproject pipeline and accelerate both the pace of subproject
preparation, and of subproject processing. Both would have mitigated the risk of delay which was recognized in the
project document. For its part, IDBI could have prepared a project implementation manual to facilitate project
implementation. However, the Bank shares equal responsibility in this area, since the requirements of MLF
subproject processing were different from what the intermediary was used to, and therefore it (IDBI) felt it needed
to defer to the Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Rating is satisfactory. Government's key role in implementation performance lay in ensuring an appropriate
regulatory framework was in place. In the end, the issuance by the Ozone Cell of ODS Rules (2000) was critical in
"closing the deal" for those enterprises which had until then been tardy in implementation. Government's further
role lay in expediting and facilitating ODS-related investments and fiscal exemptions. In this regard, one
enterprise (Friz-Tech) was pleasantly surprised at the speed of the Ozone Cell in processing the duty exemption for
port clearance of equipment procured under the project. This remark was indicative of generally strong
commitment and ownership on the part of the Government in carrying out the project. All the enterprises visited as
part of the ICR mission expressed satisfaction with the performance of Ozone Cell in project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rating is satisfactory. Enterprises visited by the ICR mission were generally laudatory of IDBI's performance,
although there was one case where there was the implied criticism that normal subproject processing was
considered onerous by the enterprise. It is clear however that IDBI performed creditably. IDBI maintained
substantial compliance throughout with its reporting obligations under the Grant Agreement, and audit reports
were generally acceptable. Where there were exceptions, noted by the auditors, they were generally of a minor
nature, and due to various processing errors, for example, reimbursement of taxes on equipment purchases, which
was not allowed under the Grant Agreement.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                                         - 9 -

Overall rating is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lesson learned pertains to the importance of an adequate policy and/or regulatory environment. Key to
timely implementation is incentive, either of the carrot or stick variety, a lesson that is hardly new. And key to
incentive is an enabling policy and regulatory environment, in this case the necessity of regulatory compulsion.
Subprojects fell into essentially two clusters, firstly those for which competitive market pressures provided
sufficient incentive ­ these were carried out early and, subject perhaps to processing delays, on time ­ and
secondly, those for which regulatory pressure was needed to provide the necessary incentive ­ these came late, and
only after ODS Rules (2000) were promulgated (Sect. 3.5). Clearly, had ODS Rules been promulgated sooner,
implementation likewise would have been quicker, although it is of course a separate issue whether it was in the
national interest to accelerate the conversion process, given the cost to the economy of Protocol compliance.

The lesson of incentive applies not only to the demand side, but also the supply side. IDBI, as the sole
intermediary, did not have the pressure of competition on the supply side. Including a second intermediary may not
have been feasible in the present case, however, given the relatively small size of the umbrella.

There is also a lesson of management process, which is critical to timely implementation. Best practice suggests
organizing and running a project launch workshop to bring potential beneficiaries quickly up to speed on the
project and what is offered, and how to go about availing of it. Likewise, best practice suggests preparing a project
implementation manual (PIM) to lend clarity to the process, and thereby to avoid avoidable delays. These features
are notably present under both ODS III, and ODS IV (Sect. 3.5, Sect. 7.2). Under ODS III, the PIM is updated on a
regular basis, and under ODS IV, the PIM has been extensively discussed with major stakeholders to ensure
ownership and ease of implementation once the project starts.

Finally, it may be remarked that IDBI stayed engaged and committed, although their remuneration turned out to be
less than anticipated, and the burden of work greater (Sect. 4.2, Sect. 5.4). The lesson here is perhaps that some
enterprises take their commitments seriously, even when these may be to their disbenefit at times. IDBI has
certainly been rewarded for such commitment, as they have again been chosen to intermediate ODS III and IV,
where the ratio of fees earned to resource input required is more in their favor as compared to ODS II, given the
difference between subsector and subproject operation. The lesson here may be that there is much to be said for a
long-term partnership and the Bank's investment in the relationship with IDBI has been an important aspect of the
highly successful Montreal Protocol program in India over 12 years.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MoEF has expressed general satisfaction with the project. Their written comments are attached as Annex 8.

IDBI provided both written comments, which are attached as Annex 9, and made an oral presentation to the ICR
mission which stimulated very useful discussion. Their main comments are summarized and assessed below:

Quality of technical appraisal. IDBI in its presentation claimed that smaller enterprises complained that the
technical appraisals performed by the Bank consultants often did not fully provide for actual incremental costs,
with the result that extra costs had to be borne by the enterprises. This complaint would appear to have merit, as it
was acknowledged that there were both, a "cookie-cutter" (Sect. 7.1) kind of approach adopted in at least the
aerosol subsector, and an adoption by ExCom of a "standard cost" approach to compensation (Sect. 5.1).

Operational manual. IDBI was of the view that project implementation could have been speedier had an
operational manual been prepared for the guidance of subproject beneficiaries. This point is readily conceded.

Incentives and penalties. IDBI felt it did not have sufficient instruments at its disposal to enforce timely
implementation by subproject beneficiaries, who could not be penalized for delay. IDBI would have liked to have



                                                           - 10 -

the option of reducing, say, the reimbursement entitlement in respect of incremental operating cost, or alternatively
enforcing a penalty for delay, paid for from enterprise entitlements. In the absence of such wherewithal, IDBI is of
the view that much of the overall delay in project implementation remained outside their control. It is felt that this
contention would be moot had there been adequate regulatory compulsion

Technical training for IDBI staff. IDBI suggested in its presentation that there should have been provision for
technical training of IDBI's staff, relative to the technological issues relevant to process conversion in the various
subsectors. This point is well accepted. However, it is not clear to what extent this lack impacted on project
implementation; certainly IDBI could on a case-by-case basis come to the necessary technical understanding to the
limited extent required to evaluate procurement documents and bid awards.

Supervision frequency. IDBI made the comment that frequent Bank supervision missions were critical in
supporting implementation. Two per year was considered optimal. IDBI was of the view that the situation
improved after supervision responsibility for the project was switched (2000) to the New Delhi Office (NDO). The
Bank's supervision effort was adequate, with at least two supervision missions undertaken each year over the
course of project implementation.

Reporting requirements. IDBI complained about the imposition, after the fact, of reporting requirements that had
not been agreed at the outset, specifically the requirement of preparing subproject PCRs (Sect. 4.2). There seems to
have been some misunderstanding in this regard; the appraisal document stated it as an "agreement reached", but
it is not included in the Grant Agreement.

Canceled projects and compensation. IDBI expressed further frustration with respect to canceled projects. Here,
the claim is that they did the financial appraisal and other work, but because compensation was tied to
disbursements, they received no corresponding compensation. Compensation on the basis of time spent and
services rendered would have obviated this problem. From the perspective of the Bank and the MLF, however, it is
clear that a disbursement-based fee arrangement is to be preferred, both from the standpoint of simplicity, and
because it ensures that fees are tied to performance. It entails some risk for IDBI, but it may be noted that they have
again accepted a disbursement-tied fee arrangement under ODS III and ODS IV.

Incremental operating cost (IOC) disbursement. Finally, it was observed that IOC disbursements were problematic
until the Bank decision to link IOC disbursements to actual expenditures for raw material purchases (Sect. 7.2).
IDBI found this later approach to their liking.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None.




                                                          - 11 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
 No.                           Indicator/Matrix                         Appraisal Estimate          Actual
  1      ODS abated (ODP metric tons)                                                   6000               5400
  2      Completion date                                                            03/30/00           09/30/04
  3      Total disbursements (US$ million)                                                  50             30.2
  4      No. of subprojects                                                                 40               83
  5      Cost-effectiveness (US$/kg ODP abated)                                          8.33              5.59


Disbursement Schedule (Actual by Fiscal Year):
(US$ million)
    Disbursements        FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04* FY05*
 Actual                       3.5    0.4    2.5     4.1      2.8     2.7   3.5    5.5    5.2      0.0   (1.3)

* Disbursements in FY04 and FY05 were used to recover Special Account balance, including a refund of some
  US$1.3 million in FY05.


Disbursement Schedule (Cumulative):
(US$ million)
    Disbursements        FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05
 Appraisal Estimate           3.5   13.5   23.5   32.5     40.0     45.0  50.0   ­      ­       ­       ­

 Formal Revision*           ­       ­      ­       ­        ­       ­     ­      ­      ­       ­       ­

 Actual                       3.5    3.9    6.4   10.5     13.3     16.0  19.5  25.0    30.2    30.2

 Actual as % Estimate     100.0     29.0   12.6   32.0     33.3     35.5  39.0  50.0    60.4    60.4

 Date of Final Disb.        ­       ­      ­       ­        ­       ­     ­      ­      ­       ­      Feb

* The projected disbursement schedule was not formally revised in the MTR.


Subproject Approvals and Completions by Year:
    Subprojects        FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 Total
Approved                   37     15      22      3       4        0     1    1       0       0      0    83

Physical Completion          1      1      3     22      18      12      8    6       2       5           78

Financial                           1      1      7       6      22     17    9       6       4      5    78
Completion



Size Distribution of Subgrants:
  No.                            Size Range                                   Count             Percentage
   1     Less than $100K                                                                     2             2.6
   2     $100K - $199K                                                                      43            51.3
   3     $200K - $499K                                                                      23            28.2
   4     $500K - $1,000K                                                                     9            10.2
   5     More than $1,000K                                                                   6             7.7
              TOTAL                                                                         83           100.0




                                                          - 12 -

Figure 1: CFC Consumption v/s Protocol Ceiling - metric tons (MT)




                                                 - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                                            Appraisal           Actual      Percentage of
                     Component                              Estimate                          Appraisal
                                                           US$ million       US$ million
Subgrants                                                      48.5               29.3           60.4
IDBI Fee                                                        1.5               0.9            60.4
Total OTF Grant                                                50.0               30.2           60.4
                 Total Project Costs                           66.5               N/A            N/A
                Total Financing Required                       66.5               N/A            N/A



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                                                 Procurement Method     1              Total
Expenditure Category                             ICB           NCB           Other 2     N.B.F.        Costs

 1. Works                                         N/A           N/A           N/A          N/A          N/A
                                                 (N/A)         (N/A)         (N/A)        (N/A)        (N/A)
 2. Goods                                         N/A           N/A           N/A          N/A          N/A
                                                 (N/A)         (N/A)         (N/A)        (N/A)        (N/A)
 3. Services                                      N/A           N/A           N/A          N/A          N/A
                                                 (N/A)         (N/A)         (N/A)        (N/A)        (N/A)
 4. Miscellaneous                                 N/A           N/A           N/A          N/A          N/A
                                                 (N/A)         (N/A)         (N/A)        (N/A)        (N/A)
  Total                                          0.00           N/A           N/A          N/A          N/A
                                                 (N/A)         (N/A)         (N/A)        (N/A)        (N/A)


Note: A procurement table showing breakdown, as above, by category and method, was not given in the appraisal
document. Neither did IDBI's project database show such a breakdown, rather only disbursements, as opposed to
costs, with only a breakdown between incremental capital, and incremental operating, costs. It is however, known
that there was no ICB under the project, with no contract award above the ICB limit of US$3.0 million. Therefore,
per the Grant Agreement, all procurement was either by national shopping (at least three quotations), or
international shopping (at least three quotations from at least three countries). Equipment by far dominated
procurement awards, with most awards being placed internationally in Europe, U.S., and Japan (in that order) for
the specialized equipment required. There was very little in the works category, except where hydrocarbons were
adopted as ODS substitutes, and appropriate safety-engineered facilities needed to be constructed for safe handling
of the (combustible) substitute.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                            Appraisal          Actual/Latest        Percentage of
     Component              Estimate             Estimate             Appraisal
                       OTF Govt. Priv. OTF Govt. Priv. OTF Govt. Priv.
Subprojects             48.5      0.0 16.5 29.3       0.0   N/A 60.4        - - 60.4

IDBI Fee                 1.5      0.0   0.0    0.9    0.0    0.0 60.4       - -    0.0


____________________
1Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contigencies.
2Includes civil works.




                                                        - 14 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 15 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count             Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Jul 1993                       3    Op;Eng;Eng
               Mar 1994                       2    Op;Eng
               Aug 1994                       3    Op;Env;Eng

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Dec 1994                       5    Op;Eng(2);Cons.(2)
               Jan 1995                       4    Op;Eng;Cons(2)
               Jan 1995                       1    Cons
               Apr 1995                       4    Op;Eng;Cons(2)

 Supervision
               Jun 1995                       1    Cons
               Aug 1995                       3    Eng;Disb;Aud
               Sep 1995                       2    Op;Eng
               Feb 1996                       2    Op;Eng
               May 1996                       1    Eng (Cons)
               Sep 1996                       2    Op;Env
               Jan 1997                       1    Eng
               Apr 1997                       2    Op
               Dec 1997                       2    Op: Eng
               Mar 1998                       1    Eng (Cons)
               Aug 1998                       2    Op
               Dec 1999                       4    Op (2); Eco; Env
               Nov 2000                       3    Eng; Eco; Env
               May 2001                       4    Eng; Env; Eco(2)
               Oct 2001                       2    Eng; Eco
               May 2002                       4    Eng;Env;Proc;FMS                         S             S
               Nov 2002                       5    Eng;Env;Eco;Op;PA                        S             S
               May 2003                       3    Eng;Eco;Env                              S             S
               Nov 2003                       3    Eng;Env;Proc                             S             S
               Apr 2004                       3    Eng;Env;FMS                              S             S

 ICR
               Sep 2004                       3     Eng;Env;Cons
               Dec 2004                       4     Eng;Op;Env;Cons

Abbreviations: Eng=Engineer; Eco=Economist; Env=Global Environmental Specialist; FMS=Fin. Mgt.
Specialist; Disb=Disbursement Officer; Aud= Audit Specialist; Cons=Consultant/Tech. Expert; Op=Operations
Officer; PA=Prog. Asst




                                                    - 16 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            10.7                           26.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 45.7                         192.1
  Supervision                          391.0                        1584.9
  ICR                                   29.0                         102.5
  Total                                476.4                        1906.1




                                            - 17 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank. Report No. 12446-IN. India ODS I Project Document, in the form of a Memorandum and
   Recommendation, Chief of Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division to Country Director (India
   Department) . July 26, 1994.
2. The World Bank. Report No. 13091-IN. India ODS II Project Document, in the form of a Memorandum and
   Recommendation, Country Director (India Department) to Regional Vice President (South Asia Region).
   February 11, 1995.
3. The World Bank. Global Environment Coordination Division, Environment Department. Montreal Protocol.
   India: Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant ­ Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS Phaseout II). Project
   Document. February, 1995.
4. OTF Grant Number TF-021999-IN. Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Second Montreal Protocol
   Ozone Depleting Substances Project) between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Acting
   as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, and Industrial Development Bank of India. May 9, 1995.
5. The World Bank. South Asia Environment and Social Department. India: Second Phaseout of Ozone
   Depleting Substances Project (ODS II ­ P031829). Mid-Term Review. Final Report. January, 2003.
6. Other documents kept in the Project Files.




                                                     - 20 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments - Ministry of Environment and Forests

Background

The ODS-II project first started under the Small Project Agreement Programme (SPAP) of the World Bank was a
landmark project giving a thrust to phasing out Ozone Depleting Substances in India on a large scale particularly
in the RAC sector. Among the 80 subprojects under the ODS-II programme, Aerosol, Foam and Halon subprojects
were also taken up along with majority of RAC sector. The project is now complete (except a few residual ones).
The project has assisted about the 80 beneficiary enterprises and has achieved a disbursement rate of over 90% of
the amount approved by the Executive Committee (ExCom) of the Multilateral Fund (MLF) amounting to about
US$ 33 million. Though there have been a few cancellations and implementation delays in case of some
subprojects, these did not lead to any revision of project completion date. It has indeed help India in phasing out
approximately 5,230 MT of ODS in complying with its commitments to the Montreal Protocol (50% reduction of
baseline consumption in 2005). IDBI, the financial intermediary, reimbursed the cost incurred by enterprises
towards technology change on completion of the project. The enterprises were also given the freedom to choose
the best available alternative technology to replace the existing ODS technology.

Issues Identified During Implementation Process

1. During the course of implementation it was observed that although enterprises were free to choose alternative
    technology, they had to make initial investments. Medium size enterprises found it difficult to mobilize
    requisite finances to meet this cost.
2. The role of IDBI was confined to merely as a financial intermediary. They ought to have played a proactive
    role in helping the industry to adopt the required technologies. The geographical location of IDBI at Mumbai
    office and non-involvement of regional offices also led to some delay.
3. We are also of the opinion that the Project could have ensured a better feedback mechanism. Although Project
    Completion Reports have been submitted, there have been no inputs in these reports on ways to improve the
    project implementation process.
4. In many cases, approval of PCRs submitted by entrepreneur were delayed due to lack of a Project
    Implementation Manual.

Lessons for the Future

1. A Technical Assistance (TA) component will help the project to substantially overcome problems relating to
    technology changeover. Enterprises often look for advice on technology issues from the implementing
    agencies. Creating awareness on various technical issues and capacity building relating to the project are
    important aspects of a TA component.
2. Scheduled visits by technical personnel from IDBI to the project sites can help in getting a better insight of the
    problems faced by the enterprises. There needs to be improved interaction between industry and IDBI.
3. Grants based funding mechanism with definite milestones for release of payments will be more practical than
    a system of reimbursement. This will reduce the financial burden of the enterprisess and avoid undue delay in
    payments.
4. Providing an information exchange mechanism that will facilitate greater interaction between the financial
    intermediary and the entrepreneur will be useful to reduce the communication gap and would minimize delays.




                                                         - 21 -

Additional Annex 9. Partner Comments - Industrial Development Bank of India

Background

Montreal Protocol (MP) on substances that deplete the ozone layer was adopted in 1987 as an international treaty
to eliminate production and consumption of ozone-depleting chemicals. The countries which had per capita
consumption of ODS less than 0.5 kg were eligible for availing of grant from the Montreal Protocol Multilateral
Fund (MPMF). India being eligible became a party to the MP on Substances that deplete the ozone layer in 1992.
MPMF provides money for investment and non-investment activities viz. technical assistance, training, etc on new
technologies.

The Second Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting Substances Project (ODS II) is a USD 50 mn Umbrella Project,
approved on a grant basis through the World Bank's Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) in May 1995, is
implemented by Industrial Development Bank of India Limited (IDBI). The objective of project is to provide
support to ODS users in the various sectors viz. Aerosol propellants, Foams, Commercial Refrigeration, Domestic
Refrigeration, Mobile Air-Conditioning (MAC), Solvents, Fire-Extinguishers (Halons), to assist them in switching
over to non-ODS technology thereby enabling implementation of India's program for the phase-out of ODS
regulated under MP.

Over 83 projects have been covered under the USD 50 mn umbrella grant agreement. Total Subproject approvals
amount to over USD 32 mn while disbursements have crossed USD 28 mn.

Implementation Framework & Role and Responsibilities of IDBI

Individual projects on approval from the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Government of India
(GoI), are put up to Executive Committee of the Montreal Protocol (ExCom) for its approval. The project
implementation cycle under ODS II commences on approval of the project by the ExCom. For implementation of
ODS II project, the World Bank has signed a Grant Agreement with IDBI, which details the scope of the project as
well as procedural and administrative aspects relating to fund disbursement under this project. IDBI, in turn, enters
into Sub-Grant Agreement (SGA) with the beneficiary enterprises. IDBI is responsible for sub-project appraisal,
assisting procurement and disbursement of OTF Funds. IDBI's roles and responsibilities are detailed below:

Sub-projects approved by ExCom are required to be appraised by IDBI taking into consideration the approval, the
funding there of, projects scope schedule and quantity of ODS to be phased-out, financial status of the enterprise,
financing plan for implementing project, environmental issues involved and disbursement schedule.
Following sub-project appraisal, beneficiary enterprise and IDBI enter into a Sub-Grant Agreement (SGA), which
lays down key conditions such as obligation on the part of beneficiary to carry out sub-projects in accordance with
the sound technical, financial, managerial, and environmental standards, procurement of goods, works and
consultants services as per World Bank procedures etc. The beneficiary enterprises are responsible for
implementation of sub-projects and undertake necessary activities agreed upon in the sub-project document and
SGA, intended to achieve ODS phase-out.

IDBI's responsibility is to monitor the implementation of the project and provide assistance to the beneficiaries by
way of reimbursement of expenses incurred by them towards the implementation of the project. For which IDBI is
required to conduct regular site visits to the beneficiary enterprises. IDBI also assists the enterprises in
procurement activities by establishing letter of credit (LC), making direct payment to suppliers etc. IDBI is also
responsible for ensuring destruction of ODS based equipment by the beneficiary enterprises.

Further, IDBI is also expected to assist the beneficiary enterprise in preparation of the Project Completion Report
(PCR). Since May 1999, WB requested IDBI to prepare Project Completion Reports (PCRs), which was not
originally envisaged in the scope of work assigned into IDBI. As desired, IDBI has been preparing PCRs and
submitting the same to WB.




                                                         - 22 -

IDBI is required to carry out annual audit of its account by independent auditors and make available the audit
reports to World Bank.

IDBI is required to report the status on implementation of project to World Bank and MoEF, GoI on a quarterly
based in their respective formats to facilitate monitoring of projects. The database developed for the purpose,
captures all relevant details concerning the project, ranging from ODS phased out, funding and disbursement
status to project implementation status, etc.

Role and Responsibilities of MoEF, GoI and World Bank

MoEF, Government of India (GoI) is the designated National Authority (Nodal Ministry) for the implementation of
Montreal Protocol activities in India. To strengthen the phase out of ODS by the industry the Government of India
framed the Ozone Depleting Substances (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 (ODS Rules 2000), which
establishes deadlines for phase out of ODS consumption and production, necessitates registration of all producers
and consumers of ODS, imposes ban on creation and expansion of production capacity of ODS and includes other
monitoring and reporting requirements. Ozone Cell, the administrative body of the MoEF handles the policy issues
and co-ordinates all the Montreal Protocol related activities on a day-to-day basis. Viz. monitoring of ODS
phase-out in the country, formulation of overall phase-out policies, based on recommendations of Sector Working
Groups, implementation and monitoring of various policy measures, related to ODS phase-out, getting approval of
phase-out project proposals at EXCOM, Compilation of project completion and commissioning report for
submission to EXCOM, Dissemination of information and creation of general awareness among the public.

Montreal Protocol activities in India are undertaken mainly through international agencies and organizations
which are designated as Implementing Agencies (IAs) viz. United Nations Industrial Development organization
(UNIDO), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
and the World Bank (WB). World Bank which is the IA for ODS II develops annual work programmes for each
year. The work programmes indicate the activities to be carried out in Article 5 countries within the calendar year.
Work programme activities may include preparation of country programmes, pre-feasibility and feasibility studies,
training, demonstration projects, institutional strengthening and other technical assistance and implementing
investment projects. WB conducts regular Supervision Missions to IDBI and MoEF, GoI to monitor
implementation of ODS II by IDBI and MoEF, GoI.


ODS II - Achievements Projected V/s Actual

Beneficiaries were responsible for carrying out implementation of sub-projects to achieve the objective of ODS
Phase-out, and procure goods, works and services to be financed out of OTF grant in accordance with WB's
procurement guide lines.

Under ODS-II, EXCOM has so far sanctioned a grant of US$ 32.63 mn (adjusted to US$ 30.34 mn to 83
sub-projects to be implemented through World Bank/IDBI. 7 sub-projects aggregating a grant of US$ 1.29 mn
have been cancelled. Financial appraisals have been carried out by IDBI in respect of 76 sub-projects, involving
aggregate Ozone Trust Fund (OTF) grant of US$ 30.34 mn. The total disbursement under the ODS Phase-out
Project as at the end of November 2004 stood at US$ 27.88 mn. The average grant per sub-project works to US$
0.37 mn. While 68 projects received grant between US$ 100,000 to US$ 500,000, 8 between US$ 500,000 to US$
1,000,000 and 7 more than US$ 1,000,000. The various sectors covered under ODS II included Aerosols (7),
Foams (33), Commercial Refrigeration (26), Domestic Refrigeration (8), Mobile Air-Conditioning (4), Solvents
(4), Halons (1).

ODS phase-out target: As against the envisaged ODP phase-out target of 6,029.06 MT the actual phase-out
achieved was 5372.04 MT. An ODP of 657.02 MT is for the balance projects which have been cancelled. Though
they have discontinued using ODS, they have not been included for the purpose of ODP phase-out calculations.
It has been observed that from the year 1998 the number of project completions (i.e., quantity of ODS phased-out)
has been very consistent. With the enforcement of Ozone Rules 2000 which required the ODS consumers to stop



                                                         - 23 -

consumption by end December 2002, the consistency in the project completions maintained its impetus.

It has been observed that the average time taken for physical completion of the sub-project was around 30 months
as against the envisaged average scheduled duration of 18 months. While the average time taken for
implementation in Aerosol sector has been lowest at around 17 months, It may be observed that the time taken for
implementation of projects in domestic refrigeration sector is maximum at around 45 months closely followed by
MACs sector at around 43 months. It may be mentioned that delay in the case of MACs has been mainly on
account of modifications for the production/assembly lines. Further, as domestic refrigerator sector was
undergoing consolidation, there was a major delay. The absence of any statutory requirements and lack of market
incentives added to the problems. As a result the enterprises found it convenient/economical to carry on operations
with ODS technology as long as possible.

It was also observed that the time taken for average time taken for carrying out the appraisal in various sectors was
around 10 months as against the envisaged duration of around 3-4 months. Further the average time taken for
execution of sub-grant agreements with IDBI should have been around 6 months as against the actual duration of
14 months.

The year 2000 and 2003 witnessed a higher level of disbursements viz., US$ 4.73 mn and US$ 3.91 mn
respectively. It was mainly simplification of procedure for disbursement of incremental operating costs in 2000 and
the enforcement of Ozone rules in 2002 which resulted in significant increase in disbursement during the years
2000 and 2003. The envisaged cost effectiveness was US$ 5.02 per kg of ODP as against the actual US$ 4.48 per
kg of ODP. This indicates that projects have been implemented in more cost effective manner than originally
envisaged. However, this calculation does not cover the expenditure incurred by the enterprises from their own
resources for the items not covered by the project sanction.

Overall Assessment of IDBI's performance

IDBI's performance does not depend solely on achievement or non-achievement of any one factor and hence it is
not fair to limit the assessment to the form of absolute ratings. However, it can be concluded that IDBI's
performance under ODS II was quiet satisfactory given the limited control it enjoys over the beneficiary
enterprises. Further, it has been clearly established that the delays in the project implementation have mainly due
to the lack of commitment on the part of beneficiary enterprises. In the absence of statutory requirements and
market incentives, as also because the projects costs were sanctioned as grant, the promoters commitment to
implement the project has been the single most important factor for timely implementation. Further, the delayed
submission of the Project Completion Reports (PCRs) by the beneficiary enterprises was also a major concern
during the implementation of ODS II.

Though the project is being monitored from Mumbai, IDBI has been utilizing the services of its vast network of
branch offices to the best possible, to aid implementation of ODS II. The changes in the management team of IDBI
over the last nine years has had little affect on the implementation of ODS II.

Though there were no operating procedures/guidelines, except the SGA existing under ODS II, which define the
project management framework, IDBI being a major Development Finance Institution of India, could utilise its
expertise in the area of term lending, the sound procedures and practices in-vogue in the lending parlance, for
implementation of ODS II. It is always good to have an operations manual explaining the roles of individual
stakeholders and procedures to be adopted during the various stages of project implementation.

IDBI's performance in terms of its compliance with the procurement procedures, disbursement procedures, etc.
can also be gauged from the quality of annual financial audit reports which are being submitted to World Bank
every year. Till date there have not been any major audit findings.

World Bank conducts regular Supervision Missions to IDBI to monitor the project implementation by IDBI. As a
part of these Missions World Bank have reviewed all major procurements, IDBI's disbursement procedures and
timeliness, etc. IDBI's rating in this regard has been maintained as satisfactory till date.


                                                          - 24 -

Overall Assessment of World Bank's Performance

The Project design provides very limited control/authority to IDBI, which otherwise could have supported its
efforts in ensuring timely completion of projects, thereby improving the implementation efficiency.

World Bank conducts regular Supervision Missions to IDBI to monitor the project implementation by IDBI, to
review compliance of procurements procedures, IDBI's disbursement procedures and timeliness, etc. Such
Missions which were held generally once in six months helped IDBI to always keep pace with the implementation,
and take assistance from the World Bank as an when needed. The frequency and adequacy of these Missions seem
to be appropriate and foster the achievement of the common goal of implementing the project in timely and
effective and efficient manner.


Lessons Learnt & Suggestions

IDBI in mid 2002 conducted a survey of all the beneficiaries under ODS-II to ascertain their views on activities
involved in project preparation, technology transfer, adequacy of grant, market acceptance, overall satisfaction, etc.
Responses received were considered for analyses and the results are provided below.

The beneficiaries under ODS-II include small, medium and large enterprises. Small enterprises had faced
difficulties in following the procedures/ guidelines in documentation, procurement, reimbursement of their claims,
preparation of PCR's, etc. A greater number of enterprises indicated that the funds granted were not sufficient for
meeting the capital cost and had to mobilise additional resources for completion of the project. Though the
procedures to be followed in implementation have been included in the SGA executed between IDBI and the
enterprises. The enterprises have often not followed the procedures and have approached IDBI for guidance. In
advising the enterprises and following procedures/guidelines IDBI has spent considerable amount of time and
energy. Dealing with such small enterprises requires different approaches and flexibility compared to dealings
with large and medium enterprises. IDBI had provided dedicated team of Officers for implementation of the project
and operational flexibility to ensure smooth operation. A procedures manual would have been of great help in the
entire process.

It has been observed that in the absence of any market incentive and statutory requirement, the enterprises did not
show much interest in completion of the project within stipulated time frame. Moreover, IDBI does not have any
statutory powers to penalise the enterprises which were delaying implementation. It required great effort on the
part of IDBI to persuade the enterprises to complete their projects. However, with the ODS Rules in place the
project witnessed good progress in terms of individual project completions, disbursements, submission of PCR's,
etc. Here it is suggested that for any delay in project a part of IOC in proportion to the delay could have been
deducted. This could have acted as dis-incentive for delay in completion of the project.

Preparation of PCRs and submission of the same to WB were not originally envisaged in the terms of reference
assigned to IDBI. However, IDBI since May 1999 has been carrying out this responsibility on insistence of World
Bank. The PCR format was revised in September 2000 and the format was found to be too elaborate. The
beneficiary enterprises have taken undue long time to understand, and furnish required information in view of its
elaborate nature. There has been considerable lapse in time between physical completion of projects and
submission of PCRs. Further, PCR has been revised again in January 2002 seeking some more details. These
frequent changes in the PCR formats could have avoided delayed submission of PCR's by the beneficiary
enterprises, thereby reflecting better implementation efficiency.

Article 10 A of Montreal protocol governs that each party of Montreal protocol shall take every practicable steps to
ensure that the best available, environmentally safe substitutes and related technologies are expeditiously
transferred to the Article 5 countries (developing countries) under fair and most favourable conditions. The main
impediment in selection of alternative technologies and ODS substitutes in India has been inadequate
implementation of Article 10 A. A good number of enterprises indicated that they faced problems in acquiring



                                                          - 25 -

technology transfer. It has been observed that the non-ODS technology being adopted under ODS II requires the
Indian industry to depend heavily on foreign markets for servicing requirements of their equipment and import of
raw material/chemical substitutes. Further any major changes in their plants for the purpose of expansion or any
alterations would warrant external assistance. Efforts should be made to assist the Indian industry to enable it to
meet its country's demands.

IDBI monitors the project purely as a financial intermediary for a percentage fee. There should be a separate
technical assistance component under ODS II for providing operational support to the project.

Though a few projects were cancelled resulting in lower abatement of ODS, in absolute terms. However, as all the
cancelled projects have discontinued using ODS, they have in effect lead to complete phase-out of ODS. It can
therefore be safely said that phase-out of consumption of ODS as envisaged in the country programme for ODS II
has been fully achieved. In view of this, it could be concluded that the implementation of ODS Phase-out project
(ODS II) has been a great success.

Keeping in view the time duration of ODS II, IDBI had an average asset base of Rs. 70,000 crore (US$ 175 bn),
and generated an average profit of Rs. 1,000 crore (Rs. 2.5 bn) per year since 1994, with an average employee base
of 2800 employees.

It was observed that during the 10 year period since 1994 IDBI incurred an estimated Rs. 7 crore (US$ 1.75 mn) on
implementation of ODS II and received a as Financial Agents (FA) fee an amount of Rs. 5.77 crore (US$ 1.44 mn
approx.). This means that IDBI earned an amount of Rs. 57.70 lakh (US$ 0.14 mn) per year since 1994 in
implementing ODS II. To add to this there was always an opportunity cost which was foregone for carrying out
this activity.




                                                        - 26 -

- 27 -

