Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14895-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1995)
US$1  =  GNF978
GNF1 = US$0.001
GNF1000 = US$1.05
MEASURES
1 m = 1.09 yd
1 m2  =   10.76 sq ft
1 km2 = 0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDI             Agence Canadienne du Developpement International (Canadian Agency for
International Development)
DAAF             Division des Affaires Adninistratives et Financieres (Financial Affairs
Directorate)
FED              Fonds Europen du Developpement (Lome IV) (European Development Fund)
GIZ              Gesellschaftfuir technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Assistance)
MEPUFP           Ministere de I'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire et de la Fonration
Professionnelle (Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational
Training)
MESRSC             Ministere de 1'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche Scientifique et de la
Culture (Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific Research and Culture)
PADES              Projet d 'Appui au Developpement de l 'Enseignement Superieur (Higher
Education Management Support Project)
PASE             Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel de l'Education (Education Sector
Adjustment Program)
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year                                        University Year
January 1 - December 31                            October - June



' REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................. I
1. INTRODUCTION .................................                                                                          1
2. SECTORAL BACKGROUND ..................................,                                                                 2
A. Background ..........................................2
B. Economic Developments .........................................2
C. Education Sector ..........................................3
D. Lessons Learned from  Previous IDA Involvement .........................................                              8
3. THE PROJECT ..................................                                                                          9
A. Objectives and Scope .........................................                                                      10
B. Project Description .........................................                                                       10
C. Project Cost and Financing .........................................                                                16
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................                                                               17
A. Status of Project Preparation ..............................................................................        17
B. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation ..................................     ............................................  17
C. Implementation Schedule ..............................................................................              19
D. Procurement ...............................................................................                          19
E. Disbursements ..............................................................................                        21
F. Accounting, Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring ..............................................................................  22
5. ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS ..............................................................                                     23
6. PROJECT  BENEFITS AND  RISKS ..............................................................                            27
A. Benefits ..............................................................................                             27
B. Risks ..............................................................................                                27
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .                                                   ......................................... 28
This report is based on the findings of the Bank appraisal mission which visited Guinea in May, 1994. This
mission comprised Messrs./Mmes Robert Prouty (Education Specialist, Task Manager and Mission Leader),
Marylou Bradley (Operations Analyst), Cherif Diallo (Economist, Resident Mission), Jean Laroche
(Communications Specialist/Consultant), and Maurice Gamier (Higher Education Specialist/Consultant).
The Lead Adviser is Mr. Thomas Eisemon (PSP). The Peer Reviewer is Mr. William Saint (AF4PH). Ms.
Janine Leygonie, Sr. Staff Assistant (AF5PH) participated in the production, processing and finalization of
the report. Mr Jean-Louis Sarbib and Mr. Ok Pannenborg are the Department Director and Managing
Division Chief, respectively, for this operation.



iv
ANNEXES
Annex 1-A   Basic Data
Annex 1-B   Male Female Comparisons of Predicted Hourly Earnings
Annex 1-C   Flow chart of the Guinean Education System
Annex 2-A   Key Project Activities
Annex 2-B   Training and Skills Transfer
Annex 3     Project Cost and Financing Tables
Annex 4     Mid-Term Review
Annex 5     Implementation Schedule
Annex 6     Policy Statement for Higher Education and Research
Annex 7     Selected Activities Institutional Reotganization Component
Annex 8     Operating Budgets
Annex 9     Higher Education Enrollment by Institution
Annex 10   Implementation Manual: Table of Contents
Annex 11    Summary Statement of Loans and IDA Credits
Annex 12    Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Annex 13    Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Government of Guinea
Implementing      Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific Research and Culture
Agency:           (MESRSC)
Beneficiaries:    Post-secondary students under the aegis of MESRSC
Credit Amount:   SDR 4.5 million (US$6.6 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan':  IDA:               US$6.6 million
Government:       US$0.7 million
Total:            US$7.4 million
Project Objectives
& Description:    This operation has been designed to provide support for development and
implementation of a new policy framework in Guinean higher education,
and for institutional capacity-building. Activities in support of policy
development are front-loaded to the first two years of the four-year
project.  The long-term  objective of the project is to establish a
reconfigured, streamlined system of higher education and research, with
greater institutional autonomy, improved cost-effectiveness, and increased
relevance for economic development. Specific objectives are to help the
government to: (a) reorganize the Ministry and the institutions of higher
education based on identified need and resource availability; (b) build
financial and budget management capacity at the Ministry and
institutional levels; and (c) establish a viable information and
communication system. The Ministry will assume a new role focusing on
quality control, cost-effectiveness and relevance.  This will mean
overhauling the flow of information, establishing criteria for evaluating
teaching and learning processes (linking the amount of financing to these
criteria), and helping the institutions become more academically relevant
and financially competitive. This approach is seen as a necessary prelude
to any broader attempt to redefine curricular offerings, etc., or any major
investment operation, all of which will be undertaken only under a follow-
up operation to be contingent upon progress realized through this project.
Slight differences in the amounts may occur due to rounding of figures.



ii
The project will:
1.    Support institutional reorganization by:
* Financing analysis and reform of university governance, finance,
management, female participation, student services, user fees and other
areas in the context of decentralization and institutional autonomy.
Agendas for the studies and analysis under the first year of the project
have been developed through a broadly participatory process at each of
the institutions of higher education and of research; and
* Financing Ministry-level development of accreditation and evaluation
procedures.
2.    Upgrade the information and communication systems by:
* Overhauling data collection, analysis, and dissemination procedures
at the central Ministry level;
* Creating institutional information systems; and
* Improving communications via installation of a telephone system at
the University of Conakry, radio communications throughout the sector,
and Internet connectivity.
3.    Improve Budgetary Programming and Monitoring by:
* Supporting Ministry-level financial management, including
establishment of an internal audit unit and application of competitive
funding criteria to allocation of institutional grants; and
* Supporting institution-level financial management, including
implementation of a computerized accounting system.
Benefits:         The economic analysis conducted during project preparation focused on
internal efficiency savings generated by the project.  The external
benefits of the interventions planned were not quantified because of the
weakness of the existing data base, a weakness to be addressed under the
project. Internal savings and new revenues were estimated in four key
project areas: (i) private resource mobilization, (ii) the opening of
University social services management to competitive bidding, (iii)
restriction of scholarships, and (iv) increased productivity of teaching
and non-teaching personnel.  It was estimated that cost-savings and
resource mobilization will amount to US$6.4 million over the life of the
project, and that additional recurrent costs under the project will amount
to US$1.6 million, for net savings over four years of approximately
US$4.8 million. Key performance indicators have been included in
Government's Policy Statement for Higher Education and Research
(Annex 6).



iii
The project will help the Guinean government ensure that future
investments in the sector are focused on sustainable activities and
programs that can be shown to have an impact on economic
development. By introducing cost recovery measures, it obliges the
sector to initiate demand-driven programs which provide graduates with
marketable skills.  Through development of criterion-based funding,
along with accreditation mechanisms, the project provides incentives to
individual institutions to achieve long overdue cost efficiencies. Along
with the budgetary targets included in the Government's policy statement
for higher education, to be monitored throughout the project, this will
further ensure that the absolute priority given to primary education is
maintained, and that funds arc freed for the continued expansion of
primary and secondary education and for improvements in the quality of
higher education. Recasting the role of the Ministry of Higher Education
(MESRSC) as one of support and quality control, rather than direct
management will reduce political tensions throughout the entire sector
and provide a more stable environment, conducive to the long-term
sustainability of reform efforts.
Risks:             The project is low risk. Policy reform measures have been front-loaded
early in the project cycle to ensure that they remain the focus of
activities and the subject of the annual and mid-term reviews. The main
short-term risks include the availability of capable leadership to guide the
reform process and potential opposition from interest groups (students,
faculty) that may see themselves as losers in the process; long-term risks
include the potential failure of Government to provide adequate ongoing
budgetary support and the converse possibility that increased investments
in higher education will draw resources away from primary education.
These risks cannot be entirely eliminated, but they have been addressed
through the participatory, consensual approach taken to project
development.   Intensive  budgetary  discussions  were  held  with
representatives from the Ministry of Pre-University Education
(MEPUFP) and the Ministry of Higher Education, as well as the
Ministry of Finance, to ensure agreement on budgetary funding that
gives a continuing priority to primary education. These agreements are
included in the policy letters for both ministries and will be a focus of
annual and mid-term reviews for this project and for the Equity and
School Improvement Project approved by the Board in May 1995.



iv
Poverty
Category:          Not applicable
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable
Economic
Analysis:          Net annual savings from the project would be approximately 1.2 million
dollars, or just over 4.8 million dollars over the course of the project.
Of this amount, approximately two-thirds would be reinvested in higher
education and research and one-third in primary and secondary
education. The current project was the least cost alternative of the
various approaches considered.
Program
Objectives
Category:          Human Resources Development
Map:               IBRD No. 27032



v
Summary of IDA Financed Project Cost Estimates'
(US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
Foreign       Local      Total    % of Total
_ _______________                                       I           Base  Cost
1. Institutional reorganization    1.4          1.7        3.1        48%
2. Information &
communication systems              0.8          0.9        1.7        27%
3. Budgetary programming &
monitoring                         0.5          0.5        1.0        15%
4. Refunding of PPF                0.3          0.3        0.6        10%
3.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS:                           3.4        6.5        100%
0.2
Physical Contingencies:        0.2          0.2        0.4         6%
Price Contingencies:                   l   0.3         0.5         8%
TOTAL PROJECT COST:             3.4     |   4.0         7.4        114%
Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
Foreign         Local         Taxes &           Total
I  _ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __D uties   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IDA                 3.4             3.3             0.0            6.6
Government          0.0             0.3             0.4            0.7
TOTAL               3.4             3.5             0.5            7.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
IDA Fiscal Years
FY96           FY97           FY98          FY99
Annual                  3.5             1.5            1.3           1.0
Cumulative              3.5             5.1           6.4            7.4
Slight differences in the amounts may occur due to rounding of figures.



l



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of Guinea has requested IDA fiancing over four years for a technical
assistance credit to support the development and initial implementation of a reform program
for its higher education and research sector. This operation has been designed to provide
support for development and implementation of a new policy framework in Guinean higher
education, and for institutional capacity-building. Activities in support of policy development
are front-loaded to the first two years of the project. This will be the first IDA credit for higher
education, although a number of policy discussions were held in the context of the recently
completed Education Sector Adjustment Program (PASE, 1990-1994). It will cover the period
1995-2000. The project will include support for feasibility studies, management training, and
improved communications at the five institutions of higher education managed by the Ministere
de l'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche Scientifique, et de la Culture (MESRSC), the
two principal research institutions, and the central Ministry. A decision will be made at the
time of the mid-term review regarding a reconfiguration and streamlining of the Ministry, with
the expected closing of some institutions and programs and the realigning of others.
1.2   The long-term objective of the project is to establish a reconfigured, streamlined system
of higher education and research, with greater institutional autonomy, improved cost-
effectiveness, and increased relevance for economic development. Specific objectives are to
help the government to: (a) reorganize the Ministry and the institutions of higher education
based on identified need and resource availability; (b) build financial and budget management
capacity at the Ministry and institutional levels; and (c) establish a viable information and
communication system. The Ministry will assume a new role focusing on quality control,
cost-effectiveness and relevance.  This will mean overhauling the flow of information,
establishing criteria for evaluating teaching and learning processes (linking the amount of
financing to these criteria), and helping the institutions become more academically relevant and
financially competitive. It is seen as a necessary prelude to any broader attempt to redefine
curricular offerings, etc., or any major investment operation, all of which will be undertaken
only under a follow-up operation to be contingent upon progress realized through this project.
1.3   The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the
Board on March 1, 1994. Recognizing the links between education and economic growth, the
Country Assistance Strategy emphasizes the need to build a strong human resource base. It
calls for higher education reform "in light of severe shortcomings in the adequacy of higher
education training vis-a-vis economic development needs and high unit costs." IDA has taken
the initiative at the pre-university level of ensuring that donors have worked at high levels of
collaboration with one another and with Government, ensuring that sectoral investments and



2
donor coordination occur within a supportive policy environment. This project will extend the
collaborative approach to higher education and will strengthen ongoing Bank support for
improving policy articulation and resource allocation. The project will be the fifth IDA-
financed operation for educational development in Guinea.  It will be implemented
simultaneously with the Equity and School Improvement Project (Cr.2719-GUI), and builds on
lessons learned through the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2155-GUI, 1990-94), an
Education Project (Cr. 849-GUI, 1978-84) and a Second Education Project (Cr. 1341-GUI,
1983-90).
1.4   The proposed IDA credit of US$6.6 million will finance 90% of the total program cost,
including 100% of the foreign exchange cost (US$3.4 million equivalent) and 91 % of the local
cost (US$3.3 million equivalent).  Total program  cost is estimated at US$7.4 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$3.4 million equivalent. Guinea (the
Government) will finance 10% of the program cost, including 9% of local cost (US$0.3
million equivalent), plus taxes and duties (US$0.4 million equivalent).
2. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Background
2.1   Guinea is a country with 6.2 million inhabitants and a high population growth of 2.8%
per year (1993). It has long been one of Africa's most conspicuous underachievers. Guinea
has one of the highest concentrations of mineral resources in Africa (bauxite, diamond and
gold) and a high agricultural potential. The mining sector accounts for 22% of GDP,
agriculture for less than 30%. Yet Guinea's per capita income is only US$537, with low social
indicators such as life expectancy (44 years), infant mortality (133 per 1,000 live births) and
illiteracy (76%).
B. Economic Developments
2.2   Since the beginning of 1986, the Government of Guinea has been implementing an
ambitious program of economic and financial reform. IDA and the IMF supported the
adjustment through a SAL I (1986) and two stand-by arrangements in 1986 and 1987. This
program was aimed at improving the incentive framework for private sector development
(including the health sector), phasing out state involvement in commercial enterprises,
instituting better management of the administration (including a reduction in the size of the
civil service) and developing a strong human resource base. The reform program has resulted
in a full transition from a command to a market economy, increases in non-mining revenues,
the privatization or liquidation of a large number of public enterprises, and a comprehensive
reform of and reduction in the size of the public administration from 95,000 to 52,000
individuals. While progress in the first phase of the adjustment program was encouraging,
some of the more difficult institution-building and politically sensitive reforms of the second
phase have not been implemented at the rhythm anticipated. Consequently, the reform process



3
has slowed, with some key measures remaining to be taken. A SAL II was approved by IDA
in August 1988. Since July 1994, Guinea is implementing the second year program of an
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement approved by the IMF in November
1991, suspended in early 1992 and replaced by a shadow program until June 1994. Overall,
the Government's program has resulted in real economic growth, averaging 3.8% per annum
from 1987-1992, an increase in real per capita income of about 1 % per annum.
C. Education Sector
2.3   Structure. The educational system consists of six years of primary schooling, a four-
year cycle for lower secondary and vocational training, a three-year upper secondary cycle,
and five years of tertiary education. There is no upper secondary vocational training, but there
are a number of post-secondary vocational programs of varying length run by a wide range of
sectoral ministries. During the 1993-94 school year, Guinea's pre-university educational
system accommodated 589,000 students, with 471,000 students in primary school, 109,900
students in secondary school, and 8,100 students in technical schools. The higher education
system accommodated 8,104 students. The total number of teaching staff during the 1993-94
school year for the primary and secondary levels was 14,800 as compared to 786 full-time
professors in the higher education system.
2.4   Administration.  The sector is managed by two separate ministries--one for pre-
university and vocational education (Ministere de l'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire et de la
Formation Professionnelle [MEPUFP1) and another for higher education and research (Ministere
de I'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche Scientifique, et de la Culture /MESRSCJ). The
MEPUFP directs all pre-university structures through eight regional Academic Inspectorates
which in turn administer 38 prefectoral-level Directorates of Education (Direction prefectorale
de I'education, DPE) and 210 sub-prefectoral Pedagogic Delegates. Significant progress has
been evident in the past few years for the programs managed by MEPUFP. Under the
Education Sector Adjustment Program, primary school enrollments increased by over 70%
during the period 1991-1994. Pre-university budgeting processes and financial management
procedures were greatly strengthened. A highly successful redeployment of 2200 underutilized
secondary school teachers and administrative personnel to primary school classrooms took
place in 1992-1993. Yet if the sector is showing much greater signs of health at the primary
and secondary levels, similar improvements have not occurred for higher education, where key
indicators continue to deteriorate. Reforms in 1984 moved the subsector away from a heavy
focus on agricultural training but did not result in desired improvements to quality and
relevance. The percentage of female students in higher education declined from 19% in 1984
to under 6% by 1993. The sector has been plagued by student strikes and low quality. This
comes against the backdrop of a weakening macroeconomic framework and the Finance
Ministry's recent record of sporadic disbursements to the sector.
2.5   The MESRSC is responsible for the two Guinean universities (the University of
Conakry [UGANC] and the University of Kankan [UJNK], three specialized institutes (the
Teacher Training Institute in Maneah, the Giscard d'Estaing Agriculture and Veterinary
Institute in Faranah, and the Mining and Geology Institute in Boke) and a number of scientific



4
research centers. Management of these institutions is highly fragmented. The respective
responsibilities of the Ministry and the institutions have been ill-defined, with a great deal of
overlap, resulting in conflict and organizational inertia. This has contributed to a precipitous
decline in educational quality and the relevance of course content. The situation has been
further aggravated by the total lack of communications capacity within the sector, and the
absence of reliable statistical data. In an attempt to resolve the ongoing management and
pedagogic crises, the Government decided in 1993 to grant greater autonomy to the
institutions. This decision has been only partially implemented because of limited financial
and educational management capacity and because the type and degree of autonomy to be
granted was not clearly defined. During the preparation of the proposed project, a number of
working sessions have been held in order to frame these issues, and a clear statement of policy
has been prepared.  This policy highlights the development of management capacity,
information flow procedures, and cost-effectiveness. It calls for a new and clear division of
responsibilities between Ministry and institutional personnel, with the Ministry assuming
responsibility for coordination and quality control and the institutions taking responsibility for
management of personnel, finances, program development and institutional development. The
Government and the institutions have expressed their commitment to early implementation of
the new policy.
2.6   The institutional framework. Until 1984, higher education in Guinea was dominated
by more than 40 post-secondary agricultural training schools accounting for over 50% of all
students. Far-reaching reforms in 1984 left only fifteen post-secondary institutions in Guinea.
Ten of these are technical training schools, overseen by four different ministries. There are
five institutions run by the Ministry of Higher Education (Ministere de I'Enseignement
Superieur, de la Recherche Scientifique, et de la Culture--MESRSC): (i) the University of
Conakry (Universite Gamal Abdel Nasser de Conakry--UGANC) is by far the largest
institution, with just under 6000 students and 600 teaching staff. It consists of four faculties
(science, letters and humanities, medicine and pharmacy, and economics and law) and one
polytechnic institute with five engineering departments. It has no telephones and few
computers; (ii) the University of Kankan (Universite Julius Nyerere de Kankan--UJNK) has
about 1200 students, with about 100 teaching staff. It consists of two faculties (natural science
and social science);  (iii) the Teacher Training Institute of Guinea (Institut Superieur des
Sciences de l'Education en Guinee--ISSEG) has a variable enrollment ranging from 125 to 400
students or more, depending on training needs. It has 50 teachers; (iv) the Agriculture and
Veterinary Institute of Faranah (Institut Superieur Agronomique et Veterinaire--Valery Giscard
d'Estaing--ISA V) had 111 teachers and 161 students in 1992--enrollment has since increased to
about 250 students; (v) the Mining and Geology Institute of Boke (Institut Superieur des
Mines et Geologie--ISMG) has 29 full-time teachers. It produced 16 graduates in 1993. Its
enrollment is near 250. In addition to these schools, MESRSC runs two major centers for
research and development: the Research Center of Conakry-Rogbane (Centre de Recherche de
Conakry-Rogbane--CERESCOR), which conducts research in oceanography and civil
engineering, and the Guinean Institute for Research and Applied Biology (Institut de Recherche
et de Biologie Appliquee de Guinee--IRBAG) which conducts research in medical biology
(transmissible diseases, epidemiological monitoring, etc.) and zoology.



5
2.7   None of these institutions is running an effective program at present.  With the
exception of the Teacher Training Institute, for which new facilities are being built with FED
financing, the physical infrastructure is everywhere in poor condition. Many programs have
little relevance for the country's economic development and most are severely underfunded.
Several are overstaffed while others suffer from staff shortages. Activities in the research
institutions often overlap research activities in the teaching institutions, with little effort at
coordination.  In 1994, limited autonomy was granted to these institutions although the
operational meaning of this autonomy was left largely undefined. In its policy statement for
higher education and research, submitted to IDA in draft form as a condition of negotiations
[para. 7.1 (a)], the Government recognizes these weaknesses and affirms its intent to make
fundamental changes in the way the sector is structured, including redeployment and more
effective use of teachers, cost recovery, limits to student enrollment, and improvements in
quality.
2.8   The Guinea Higher Education Management Support Project (PADES) is a technical
assistance project designed to help the higher education and research sector establish the
framework for more responsive and cost-effective programs in these institutions.  While
primary education will remain the clear priority of Government for the sector, as evidenced by
the Guinea Equity and School Improvement Project, the current initiative will enable higher
education to be an effective and efficient contributor to the country's economic development.
It will do this by strengthening the management capacity of the institutions of higher education
and research, re-orienting institutional goals, programns and resources according to
development priorities, increasing cost-effectiveness, and creating a new quality control role
for the central Ministry.
2.9   The proposed project is process-oriented, designed to ensure government ownership of
the reform process as recommended in the Guinea Higher Education and Research Sector
Report (May 1993). It will enhance overall planning capacity and rationalize the budgetary
process, re-orienting spending toward quality-enhancing inputs and away from social transfers
and administrative overhead. During the course of project preparation, there has been a
significant shift in spending in the education sector from higher education to primary and
secondary education. Higher education's share of the recurrent education budget has moved
from 29% in 1990 to 21% in 1992 and 17.5% in 1995. It is expected that higher education's
share of the education budget will stabilize at 17% in the short term, and remain in the range
of 17-20% in the medium term, as Guinea continues a major thrust to improve the quality and
coverage of primary and lower secondary education. This is below the sub-Saharan Africa
average for higher education of about 22% and makes it all the more important that national
priorities be established and that programs be implemented efficiently. The project will
capitalize on the expressed desire of the stakeholders in higher education to significantly alter
the structure of higher education and to engage in major pedagogical changes. This first step in
the process of comprehensive reform is seen as a necessary pre-requisite to future capital
investments.
2.10  The existing framework for higher education in Guinea has proven to be unsatisfactory.
Resource allocation is skewed; quality, efficiency and equity are far too low and overhead



6
costs and waste are far too high. Fewer than 6% of university students are female. There is
little contact between personnel of the various institutions and relationships with the Ministry
have often been unproductive: highly skilled manpower is not available, research relevant to
the economic needs of the country is not carried out or, if it is, cannot be communicated to
potential users. The system is widely perceived as being out of touch with its economic and
social environment, with many programs irrelevant to Guinea's development needs, and little
evidence of the flexibility needed to respond to changing conditions. Reversing the current
trend of deterioration and declining relevance will require fundamental changes in funding,
programns and management, including: (i) initiation of user fees; (ii) curtailing of scholarships;
(iii) full privatization of cafeteria services on a competitive basis (a process which is already
under way); (iv) significant increases in professors' work schedules and reductions in overtime
payments; and (v) additional investments in infrastructure and materials to improve priority
programs, as well as laboratory services, library services, communications, computerization,
and information management.
2. 11  The policy environment.  According to the 1993 World Bank report, "Higher
education in Guinea has been characterized by wild policy gyrations over the past two decades,
and has gone from a period of explosive, uncontrolled expansion to one of cutbacks and
physical deterioration". This has occurred in a context of physical and intellectual isolation.
The institutions within the system are currently unable to communicate directly with one
another, with the Ministry of Higher Education, or with external sources, and there is no
mechanism for routine consultations and exchanges. Furthermore, the sector is beset with
many of the problems faced by higher education and research institutions in neighboring
countries: skewed budget allocations, inadequate levels of non-salary operating funds, poor
teaching, deteriorating physical plants, etc.
2.12 Management responsibility has been divided among the MESRSC and the various
institutions in ways that have led to overlap in functions and considerable inefficiency and
delay. Until recently, few important decisions have been made at the institutional level,
including those relating to student intake and faculty composition.  The result has been
overcrowding and underfunding, with the buildup of large internal arrears for food purchases,
equipment, and supplies.  In 1994, the sector implemented for the first time legal and
administrative texts for granting institutional autonomy;  the policy statement for higher
education and research, the first draft of which was prepared in 1994, provides the
Government's overall vision for the sector and creates a framework for developing new
operational agreements between the institutions and the Ministry. The recent decision of the
government to provide the institutions with greater functional autonomy is potentially a
watershed in the development of the sector. However, even if a greater degree of autonomy is
achieved, this in itself is no guarantee of greater relevance or indeed, of less isolation. The
specifics of that decision have not been worked out. In particular, the mechanisms that will
enable institutions to recover costs and to disburse funds according to their own priorities have
not yet been identified. In addition, if higher education is to become less isolated and more
relevant, the relationship between higher education and its clients must be changed. This
essentially means that the administrative structure and procedures must change. The thrust of
that change can be described as involving a shift from "administration" carried out by a central



7
Ministry to "management" carried out at the appropriate level: national for coordination and
quality control, institutional for personnel, pedagogy, program planning, etc. Agreement with
IDA on the final version of the Government's policy statement for higher education and
research, including monitorable performance criteria and a policy reform agenda, was reached
during negotiations [para. 7.2 (a)].
2.13 Sector development issues. Sector work conducted by the World Bank in 1993
identified a number of issues crucial to the development of higher education in Guinea,
including the low relevance of current programs to economic development, the quality of
teaching personnel, low internal efficiency (only 27% of entering students ultimately complete
the undergraduate cycle), and equity of access. The study found, for instance, that the
percentage of female students in higher education had dropped from 19% in 1978 to 6% in
1992.  It also found that rural students were from five to ten times less likely to enter
university than urban students.
2.14 Budgetary and financial issues. Under the Education Sector Adjustment Program,
overall education expenditures moved from 12% of total public expenditure in the late 1980's
to approximately 22% in the early 1990's, a level at which it has stabilized. The share of
higher education in the overall education expenditures dropped from 29% in 1990 to 21% in
1992 and 17.5% in 1995. However, the absolute level of funding for higher education has
more than doubled in the 1990's. Unit recurrent costs increased from US$1,136 in 1982 to
US$1,849 in 1990, before dropping to US$1,420 in 1994. This remains almost 50% below
francophone Africa averages, but relatively close to overall sub-Saharan Africa averages
(which plummeted from US$6,300 per student in 1980 to US$1,500 in 1988, a level at which
it has stabilized). Student scholarships in 1995 accounted for approximately 34% of costs
(reliable data are not available for earlier years). Due to persistent budget shortfalls, non-
salary operating expenditures are extremely low, and always considerably less than called for
in the budget, with a gap between scheduled and actual disbursement that is often more than
six months. Salaries and scholarships, on the other hand, are paid in full in a timely fashion,
although with considerable waste. Payment of overtime salaries to teachers continues to
consume an inordinate portion of the budget, in spite of the relatively low number of hours
taught by most teachers.  The Government's policy statement for higher education and
research proposes reforms in each of these areas. An arrete-ministeriel already published sets
the number of teaching hours per week at ten for full and associate professors, and at twelve
for assistant professors and instructors. Prior to October 31, 1995, the Ministry will publish
an arr&e-rministeriel acceptable to IDA establishing equivalencies for supervising labs (two
hours of lab supervision to be equivalent to one hour of teaching) and small-group mentoring
(one-and-one-half hours to be the equivalent of one hour of teaching).
2.15 Managing the change process. It is likely that an internally more efficient system will
make it possible to improve quality at little additional cost, yet in order to address the issues of
what changes should be made (size of enrollment, program offerings, etc.), meaningful
participation in the change process on the part of all key actors is needed. The same general
principle applies to research institutions. Through this process, a higher education sector will
emerge capable of responding to the sorts of new demands that will be placed on it in the



8
foreseeable future (such as, for instance, the need for municipal workers that will come from
the proposed decentralization of Government structures). While the level of discourse about
change within the sector has increased considerably in recent years, the sector has not
demonstrated the capacity to reform itself. The Higher Education Management Support
Project will help establish this capacity, creating both a structure and sufficient time for
developing internal feedback, external input and appropriate decision-making processes. It will
provide support both for individual institutions as they define decentralized administrative
structures and for the central Ministry as it designs and implements a new quality control and
sectoral planning function. It will pay attention to communication issues and provide an
environment in which national consensus can be developed. In this sense, it will function as a
bridge across which innovative ideas can flow.
2.16 Donor coordination. The change process supported by this project will include the
active involvement of several donors already involved in the higher education subsector.
Current donor programs have largely been developed independently;  the newly created
sectoral steering committee will work to foster a policy dialogue with all active donors, and to
ensure coherence of programs and policies. The French Ministry of Cooperation and the
European Development Fund (FED) have provided technical assistance over the past six to
seven years in support of undergraduate programs in mathematics, physics, computer science
and social science at the University of Conakry and at the Teacher Training Institute at
Maneah. Germany (G7Z) is developing a soil mechanics program at the University of
Conakry, while ACDI is financing a master's program in management and a center for
environmental studies. USAID is funding a small Human Rights Library. The FED is
currently financing the construction of new facilities for the Teacher Training Institute and
improving the cafeteria facilities of the University of Kankan. The UNDP funds the return of
expatriate nationals abroad with technical expertise to teach at the university for various
periods of time.
2.17 Many broad institutional and political issues that exceed the authority of the MESRSC,
such as the financial procedures necessary to ensure that the formal autonomy granted to
institutions by Government become operational, have been identified. Others will be identified
by the various working groups, or task forces, over the course of the project. Rather than
attempt to define ideal procedures ahead of time, latitude will be given within the project for
negotiations with representatives of the Ministries of Plan, Finance, and Administrative
Reform, and other Government entities as appropriate, so that new procedures for the timely
disbursement of budgetary allocations, teacher recruitment, etc. may be developed.
D. Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement
2.18 The Higher Education Management Project will be the fifth IDA-financed education
project in Guinea. The first project (1978-84) focused on developing vocational training
capacity and equipping the Planning Office of the Ministry of Education and the Project
Management Unit. The Project Performance Audit Report (#6492-GUI) recommended that
future projects concentrate on addressing a narrow range of issues within the sector. In spite
of this, the second IDA-financed education credit (1983-1990) financed a wide range of



9
activities including vocational training, manpower development, education planning, and
primary school improvement. According to the Project Completion Report (#10200-GUI), the
high number of donors (three) and local actors made the project too complex for existing
management capability. The main recommendation was that project design and organization
be adapted to the existing institutional, economic, managerial, and implementation capacities.
Ironically, the first two credits met most of their quantitative goals but did not have a major
impact on the sector, where virtually all indicators of access and quality were in free fall. The
failure to achieve a broader impact is largely attributable to the lack of policy dialogue.
2.19 The third intervention in the sector, the PASE (1990-94), set out to reverse the decline
in educational access and quality by first strengthening institutional and management capacity.
Government developed a ten-year strategic design covering the total education sector, with
explicit attention to the macroeconomic context. Although it was initially intended that higher
education reform be included in the range of issues considered under the PASE, when higher
education and pre-university education were split under separate ministries in 1992,
collaboration became increasingly difficult and this goal was not met. The PASE did succeed
in reversing the declining enrollment trends of the 1980s for primary schooling, however.
This was made possible through: (a) an ambitious school construction program supported by
community groups, NGOs and donors, accompanied by development and implementation of
low-cost construction norms; (b) West Africa's most ambitious redeployment program to date,
with over 2,200 teachers shifted from administrative posts and secondary schools to primary
school classrooms; and (c) a reallocation of budgetary resources in favor of the education
sector, including large increases in non-salary operating expenditures.  In line with
Government-wide civil service reform measures, the MEPUFP has overhauled its teacher
management procedures. Data collection and analysis have been dramatically improved.
Government support for education has increased from 13% (1989) to 26% (1993) of the
national budget, with marked improvements in preparation and monitoring of education sector
budgets. The sectoral budget distribution moved from 32% for primary education in 1990 to
35% in 1993; expenditures for non-salary operating costs increased from 2% of pre-university
expenditures in 1990 to 15% in 1993.
2.20 The key lesson to be learned from implementation of the PASE is that a complex range
of interventions can be successfully undertaken, provided that they are situated within a
coherent policy matrix and given intensive supervision. The PASE also demonstrated the
importance of a long-term framework for education system support. A similar long-term
perspective will need to be developed for higher education, covering ten to fifteen years.
3. THE PROJECT
3.1   The project will provide support for policy reform and for capacity-building. Activities
in support of policy reform will take place over the first two years of the project, at which
time agreement will be reached on implementation of a detailed policy agenda; capacity-
building initiatives will be spread over four years.  The project consists of three major



10
components:   (a)  institutional reorganization,  (b)  development of an  information  and
communication system, and (c) establishment of budgetary programming and monitoring capacities.
It will be executed over a four-year project, following an agreed schedule of implementation subject
to annual review. A mid-term review will pay particular attention to the success achieved in
implementing policy reforms. For all project components, planned activities are premised on the
creation of a process of reflection and consensus-building to be followed by the re-design of
existing organizational relationships and structures. All components reflect the fact that individual
institutions exhibit differing capacities for change and are currently at different levels of
development. Operational details for each project component are provided below.
A. Objectives and Scope
3.2    The purpose of this operation is to provide a framework for the rationalization of
higher education in Guinea. Its long-term objective will be to establish a reconfigured,
streamlined system with greater institutional autonomy, improved cost-effectiveness, and
increased relevance for economic development. This will be done by helping the Government
to design and implement a process of policy reform and institutional capacity-building.
Specific objectives are to help the Government to: (a) re-organize the Ministry and the
institutions of higher education based on identified need and resource availability; (b) build
financial and budget management capacity at the Ministry and institutional levels; and (c)
establish a viable information and communication system. The Ministry will assume a new
role focusing on the control of quality, cost-effectiveness and relevance. This will mean
overhauling the flow of information, establishing criteria for evaluating teaching and learning
processes (linking the amount of financing to these criteria), and helping the institutions
become more academically relevant and financially competitive. This approach is seen as a
necessary prelude to any broader attempt to redefine curricular offerings, etc., or any major
investment operation, all of which will be reserved for a follow-up operation to be contingent
upon progress realized through this project.
B. Project Description
3.3    The project components are summarized below:
Project Summary (Total Cost US$7.4 million)a
1. Institutional Reorganization (US$3.6 million)
* Analysis and reform of university governance, finance, management, female participation, student services,
and user fees; consultant support for a collaborative process to reconfigure the higher education sector,
prepare new recruitment criteria and procedures, develop accreditation procedures, and redefine
administrative responsibilities (US$3.6 million);
2. Information and Communication System (US$2.0 million)
*  Improved data collection, analysis, and dissemination (US$0.5 million);
*  Upgraded institutional information systems (US$0.7 million);
*  Improved communications (US$0.8 million);
3. Budgetary Programming and Monitoring (US$1.1 million)
*  Support for Ministry-level financial management (US$0.5 million);
*  Support for institution-level financial management (US$0.6 million).
a/ Includes taxes and dudes, base costs, contingencies and 3 PPF advances totaling US$640,000



11
1. Institutional Reorganization (US$3.6 million)
3.4   Scope and objectives.  Administrative procedures in the past have provided for a
highly-centralized Ministry where the directorates for higher education and scientific research
held responsibility for supervising most of the activities of the various institutions. The
institutions retained control over most curricular issues but did not effectively control
enrollments or personnel recruitment. A move toward greater delegation of responsibilities to
the institutional level has already begun but little attention has been given to the operational
details of decentralization. This failing will be addressed through the project.
3.5   Ten broadly representative working groups have been established within the institutions
of higher education, the research centers, and the Ministry.  Representatives of these
institutions and departments form a sectoral steering committee that ensures that an overall
vision of the sector drives the reform process and linking decision-making processes with field
experiences. The steering committee is chaired by the Secretary-General of MESRSC who is
delegated by the Minister of Higher Education for this purpose.   There is also an
interministerial committee whose role is to ensure coherence between sectoral policies and
national priorities for economic and social development.  The interministerial committee
includes the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation which chairs the committee, three
representatives of the MESRSC, a representative of the MEPUFP, and a representative of the
the Ministry of Finance. These two committees receive technical and logistic support from the
Project Coordination Unit located in the MESRSC, which is responsible for daily operations.
The working groups have prepared initial statements of mission objectives and detailed study
agendas with terms of reference for the first year of the project. The study agendas, appraised
in June 1994 (see Annexes 2 and 6), call for a participative approach to the issues confronting
the sector. Draft terms of reference for consultant services and studies for the first year of the
project were submitted to IDA as a condition of negotiations [para. 7.1 (b)]. These emphasize
institutional appropriation of skills and study design. Agreement on these terms of reference
was reached during negotiations [para. 7.2 (b)].
3.6   The study agendas can be divided into two large categories: Ministry and institutional.
Ministry-level studies will focus on the operational aspects of shifting toward a role of quality
control. This will include establishment of guidelines to evaluate and accredit existing and
future programs of higher education and development of competitive funding criteria as a basis
for allocation of resources. For the Directorate for National Research, it will involve a move
towards a new role as a clearinghouse for research information. At the institutional level,
studies will focus on developing structures and procedures in support of decentralization and
increased operational autonomy. In-depth background studies will be conducted in the areas of
university governance, finance, management, female participation, student services, user fees,
etc.



12
3.7   Annual study agendas will be submitted for joint approval by the steering committee
and IDA on a competitive basis throughout the life of the project. Mission statements will be
refined annually based on project findings and working group consensus. The study process
will have as an explicit outcome objective the redesign of flow charts, new recruitment criteria
and procedures, and the redefinition of administrative responsibilities. Activities in support of
policy reform will take place over the first two years of the project; capacity building
initiatives will be spread out over four years. A matrix of policy reforms is included in Annex
4. Specific reforms will be implemented in accordance with an overall schedule included in
the policy statement for higher education and research. A comprehensive assessment of the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the project (including the reform measures agreed
upon) will be carried out at the mid-term review to be held by December 1997. Financing
includes provision for training activities.
3.8   As coherent mission statements are refined at the institutional level, the next phase of
the project will involve the updating of viable national goals for higher education and research.
The initial drafting of these goals will be the responsibility of the steering committee. This
group will serve an overall role as the agent of reform and will act as a knowledgeable
intermediary between the various institutions' aspirations, national needs, and institutional
capacities. The plan it produces will include recommendations for the structure of higher
education, recruitment and personnel management procedures, information sharing, admission
and scholarship criteria, program priorities, cost recovery, etc.
3.9   Project implementation will be coordinated through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
comprising a project coordinator, a treasurer, an operational assistant and other staff to be
agreed with IDA. Terms of reference for the project coordinator, the treasurer and the
operational assistant were agreed during project preparation and will be subject to annual
review.
3.10 Project support. Under the project support will be given for: (a) training central and
institutional personnel for development and application of accreditation procedures,
competitive funding criteria, and program evaluation; (b) computer equipment and materials
for statistical analyses, tracer studies, and personnel management; (c) studies, including both
national (250 person-months) and international (42 person-months) technical assistance, and
(d) incremental operating costs (project administration).
2. Information and Communication System (US$2.0 million)
3.11  Scope and objectives. The sustainability of reforms to improve quality and relevance
requires the existence of viable systems of communication among stakeholders, and unimpeded
flows of information. Three sub-components are included to this end. First, support will be
given for broad, sector-wide data collection, analysis and dissemination to be handled by a
newly configured central statistic unit.  Second, decentralized information needs at the
institutional level will be defined, with training and equipment tailored to institution-specific
priorities. Support will be given for adaptation of existing software for tracking student flows,



13
teaching loads, class schedules and other localized information needs. Third, support will be
given for significant improvements in communications infrastructure. This support has been
designed in such a way that while all existing institutions will benefit in the short term from
the project, and viable information and communication systems will be introduced at all
institutions, significant investments in infrastructure will be made only at the University of
Conakry. This will avoid the possible waste of resources in other institutions that could
ultimately be closed or reconfigured.
(a) Improved data collection, analysis, and dissemination (US$0.5 million)
3.12 Data processing functions are currently split between two separate entities within the
Ministry, neither of which has training or equipment, with the effect that annual statistical
reports and other vital information are simply not being produced. There is no centralized data
base for research and analysis, although some of the institutions produce ad hoc enrollment
figures and faculty lists of widely varying format and quality. Under this component, the two
units within the Ministry currently responsible for data collection and processing will be
merged, and the flow of information to and from the institutions of higher education and
research will be restructured. The component will be overseen by the central MESRSC
working group, with input from the steering committee. The streamlined central unit will
design data collection protocols and prototype yearbooks and databases, and will serve as a
clearinghouse for infonnation. The new focus of the central unit will be on dissemination of
operationally relevant data as a basis for financing, and to inform the policy dialogue regarding
program offerings and curriculum content. Institutional units will provide support for initial
data collection and end-use analysis. The project will build on a study of existing and needed
capacity conducted during project preparation. It will finance the design of short-term, on-site
training programs, and the purchase of computer equipment. Wherever possible, collaborative
approaches with the pre-university school statistics unit will be developed and information
technology norms will be shared. The project will also carry out a feasibility study to
determine how information could best be shared among institutions. Statistical information
tracked will include personnel lists and files, student enrollment and throughput, monitoring of
equipment and supplies, and maintenance and upkeep schedules.
3.13  Project support. Under the project, support will be given for: (a) in-service training of
central Ministry persormel in use of software packages, database management, development of data
collection protocols and norms, etc., (b) purchase of computer equipment, software and materials,
(c) national (24 person-months) and international (4 person-months) technical assistance, and (d)
incremental operating costs for preparation of data collection protocols and prototype yearbooks and
databases.
(b) Upgraded institutional information systems (US$0.7 million)
3.14 In order to manage student flows in a coherent fashion, and to make rational decisions
about internal resource allocation, individual institutions require current information about
student performance and characteristics, teachers' career development, class loads and



14
schedules, course offerings, library holdings, etc. A preliminary study of institutional needs
was conducted at all institutions, with recommendations for software design. It was agreed
that the institutions will collaborate in development of information systems that will be
compatible across institutions in order to permit sector-wide tracking of enrollments,
expenditures and programs, and to facilitate the easy exchange of information. These systems
will also serve as the basis for allocation of criterion-driven recurrent and investment funding.
This component will be overseen by the steering committee, with delegation of responsibility
to the institutional working groups as appropriate. It will include funding for training and
equipment purchase, as well as technical assistance for training in software use.
3.15  Project support. Under the project support will be given for: (a) in-service training for
institution-level personnel in use of software packages, (b) computer equipment, software, and
materials, (c) technical assistance for adapting a software package, and (d) incremental operating
costs for preparing and piloting the information systems.
(c) Improved communications (US$0.8 million)
3.16 Internal reorganization will not bring an end to the intellectual isolation of Guinean
higher education and research without a means for adequate communication. To this end, the
project will finance the following initiatives: (a) installation of a campus telephone system for
the University of Conakry, with several external lines, (b) purchase of radio communications
equipment for institutions not linked by telephone, and (c) installation of electronic data
communication, including email, through the Internet. Internet connectivity at the University
of Conakry was established during project preparation. Since the university has no telephones,
a radio modem link was installed. This electronic communication system is being developed
jointly with the Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training (MEPUFP). It
is expected that responsibility for ongoing user service and expansion of internal networks to
connect all sectors throughout the country will ultimately be assigned to a non-governmental
organization, but the university will maintain responsibility for assuring the technological
integrity of the system. Each of these activities will be accompanied by training initiatives.
3.17  Project support.  Under the project support will be given for:  (a) installation of a
telephone system at the University of Conakry, (b) purchase of radio communications equipment,
(c) installation of electronic data communication and e-mail, (d) technical assistance, and (e)
incremental operating costs.
3. Budgetary Programming and Monitoring (US$1.1 million)
3.18  Scope and objectives. At present, the investment and recurrent budgets for higher
education are prepared by the central Ministry DAAF based on administrative concerns rather
than developmental priorities. Requests for additional resources are made independent from
considerations relating to the effectiveness of existing resource use or functional priorities.
MESRSC staff have also been unable to define and articulate standard operating norms and
procedures that will allow them to project the implications of investment expenditures for



15
recurrent budgets. Finally, once budgets are accorded to the MESRSC, little emphasis is
placed on monitoring and analyzing actual expenditures in the context of past budgets, or on
using these figures during the preparation of future budgets (although this is routinely done at
the MEPUFP). Given the lack of technical justification for budget proposals and spending
priorities, it is not surprising to find that the MESRSC currently plays an extremely limited role
in the budget arbitration process.
(a) Support for Ministry-level financial management (US$0.5 million)
3.19 Institutional autonomy implies the development of a number of new functions and
procedures not currently assured within the Ministry. These have to do with the development
of financial management by the institutions, the development of new procedures for financial
oversight by the central Ministry, and new methods for the allocation and transfer of funds to
the institutions. The objective of the project in this area will be to strengthen the capacity of
the MESRSC to participate constructively in budget arbitration processes, and to strengthen the
staff of individual institutions in: (a) analyzing current expenditure patterns for operating and
investment resources with the aim of identifying efficiency gains, (b) preparing and defending
operating and investment budgets on the basis of standard operating norms and competitive
criteria, and (c) monitoring and analyzing actual expenditures against budgetary allocations in
the context of future budget preparation.   Among other activities, this will require
development of standard accounting codes and budget nomenclature.
3.20  Since much expenditure authority has long been outside the purview of the Ministry (e.g.
salaries, fellowships and other transfers that make up in excess of 90% of higher education and
research costs), procedures will need to be negotiated with the Ministries of Finance and Plan
regarding these areas by the time of the mid-term review, with legal texts developed and
information flows spelled out. The circumstances under which institutions can levy fees, receive
overhead from research contracts, sell services and allocate funds will need to be established. The
Ministry will become more proactive in its identification of national training needs, and will need to
develop audit, statistical and planning capacities. It will become involved in the creation of
institutional incentives and helping define what priorities to give particular research areas.
3.21 Establishment of a budget unit with internal audit responsibilities, and a computerized
accounting system acceptable to IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3 (a)]. The
project will finance short-term technical assistance focusing on appropriation of skills by
MESRSC personnel. It will help the DAAF develop new budget nomenclature, implement a
computer-based budget planning and control system, and work with the institutions to prepare
and defend budget proposals. The software and hardware for the system will be chosen
according to criteria defined during project preparation, including general compatibility and
support within the country, ease of use, scalability, capacity for consolidation, data and
equipment security, and cost-effectiveness. The budget planning and control system will be
designed to strengthen the capacity of the DAAF to participate constructively in the budget
arbitration process. Support will be provided to strengthen the capacity of central staff to
analyze past spending patterns, monitor current budget commitments and expenditures, and



16
develop short- and medium-term budget projections. Criteria will be developed for allocating
budget funds to individual institutions on a competitive basis (efficiency, student enrollments,
program relevance, teacher qualifications, etc.). These criteria will serve as the basis for
development of a new budget model and appropriate software. Training will be provided to
MESRSC staff to improve their capacity to provide timely feedback to institutional financial
managers regarding budget execution.
3.22  Project support.  Under the project support will be given for:  (a) training DAAF
personnel, (b) purchasing computer equipment and software, (c) technical assistance for
establishing criteria for competitive allocation of budget funds and installing software, and (d)
incremental operating costs for establishing a budget unit with audit responsibilities.
(b) Support for institution-level financial management (US$0.6 million)
3.23 Short-term periodic technical advisors will be provided to the institutions as needed through
the medium of working groups and training seminars. Consultants will assist institutional personnel
in drafting work programs. Financial managers and accountants will be trained at each institution in
the use of budget nomenclature and standard accounting procedures for central block grants and
locally-generated revenues (student fees, research contracts, etc.). Institutional personmel will
receive training in the use of budget software developed by the DAAF to enable them to participate
more meaningfully in the budget preparation process, and to ensure that competitive budget criteria
are understood and applied within their institution. Several commercial, off-the-shelf accounting
software packages were considered during project appraisal. Criteria for selection of software and
hardware have been established (para.3.21). It was agreed that a final decision will be made during
the first year of the project, following additional training of DAAF personnel to allow them to
participate meaningfully in the selection process. This component will be considered a success if,
at the end of implementation, institutional staff were able to use new tools and work methods to
articulate institutional priorities and to demonstrate the budgetary implications of decision making.
3.24 Project support. Under the project support will be given for: (a) training seminars for
institution-level financial managers, (b) purchasing computer equipment and materials, and (c)
short-term technical assistance.
C. Project Cost and Financing
3.25 The total cost of the project over a four-year period is US$7.4 million, including taxes
and duties, with a base cost of $US6.5 million equivalent and a foreign exchange component
of US$3.4 million equivalent. Price contingencies, estimated at US$0.5 million equivalent
assume an annual domestic inflation rate of 4% and a foreign inflation rate of 2.2%. Physical
contingencies estimated at US$0.4 million equivalent provide for 10% of base costs for goods.
IDA's total contribution of US$6.6 million equivalent will finance 100% of foreign costs and
91 % of local costs, net of taxes and duties. Government will contribute the equivalent of
US$0.7 million equivalent or 9.7% of total project costs of which US$0.4 million equivalent
represents taxes and duties. The cost of each project component is as follows: (a) institutional
reorganization (including project administration), US$3.6 million equivalent; (b) information



17
and communication system, US$2.0 million equivalent; and (c) budgetary programming and
monitoring, US$1.1 million equivalent. Three PPF advances totaling US$640,000 have been
made available for preliminary studies under components (b) and (c) above. A detailed
breakdown of costs is presented in Annex 3. The average cost per person-month of expatriate
consultant services is US$15,000, which is in line with recent experience in Guinea in the
sector. The project will result in a reduced MESRSC recurrent budget (see economic analysis
beginning para. 5.1).
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.1   Project preparation benefitted from: (a) up-stream sector work in the form of a green
cover sector report issued in 1993 outlining issues and priorities for the higher education
sector; and (b) an intensive, participatory dialogue among key stakeholders within the
institutions and the central Ministry, leading to development of a policy framework (the
Government's statement of higher education policy). Additional support was provided by
three PPF grants totaling US$640,000.
4.2   A draft implementation manual was submitted to IDA as a condition of negotiations
[para. 7.1 (c)]. Agreement on the implementation manual was reached during negotiations
[para. 7.2 (c)]. Its adoption will be a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3 (b)]. Overall
project management will be the responsibility of a sectoral steering committee supported by an
interministerial committee.   The steering committee will be responsible for project
coordination and development of long-term objectives for higher education and scientific
research. The interministerial committee will be responsible jointly with the World Bank for
the conduct of the mid-term review. It will present to Government at that time an overall plan
for the restructuring of higher education, along with specific recommendations for institutions,
budget allocations and academic programs.
B. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.3   Within the framework of the steering committee, individual institutions will bear broad
responsibility for managing their own project sub-components. Working groups at these
institutions will be responsible for ultimate project success.  Each institution has already
organized working groups. All working groups have prepared an agenda of studies and
activities for the first year of the project. The studies have been through three iterations and
were the subject of the appraisal mission.  Agreement regarding establishment of a
management information system to enable the MESRSC to track annual monitoring indicators
was reached during project negotiations [para. 7.2 (d)]. The establishment of the MIS system
is a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3 (c)].
4.4   A central project coordination unit (PCU) has been established to provide financial and
logistic support to the steering committee, the interministerial committee, and the individual



18
working groups. Such assistance includes the drafting of terms of reference, the identification
of appropriate consultants, the organization of training sessions, etc. The project unit includes
an accountant, a project assistant and a coordinator.  Responsibility for all IDA-related
implementation matters (procurement, disbursements, consultant support, reporting, auditing
etc.) will be handled by the PCU.
4.5   The steering committee/interministerial committee.  The steering committee was
created by ministerial decree on February 23, 1994, with modifications through a further
decree on September 8, 1995. It is composed of representatives from each institution as well
as from the central ministry (MESRSC) and is chaired by the Secretary-General of MESRSC
who is delegated by the Minister of Higher Education for this purpose. The interministerial
committee was created on September 8, 1995, and includes a representative of the Ministry of
Plan, who serves as its chair, three representatives of the MESRSC, a representative of the
Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil Service, a representative of the MEPUFP, and a
representative of the Ministry of Finance. The two committees receive technical and logistic
support from the project coordination unit, situated in the MESRSC. The Project Coordinator
serves as secretary of the steering committee and is responsible with the chair for preparing the
agenda.
4.6   The primary mandate of the steering committee is planning, problem solving, and
evaluation; its role is to act quickly and effectively to facilitate project implementation and to
ensure that problems are discussed and addressed in a timely manner. It will be responsible
for monitoring and evaluating the transfer of technical capacity from the advisors provided
under the project. The interministerial committee holds the responsibility for approving annual
working plans and budget proposals and ensuring interministerial coordination during project
implementation.  During project negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
regarding the interministerial committee's responsibility for ensuring that a mid-term review to
evaluate the progress made in implementing the project is carried out with IDA by December
1997, and the steering committee's responsibility for prompt implementation of all measures
agreed upon with IDA as a result of the mid-term review [para. 7.2 (e)] (see also Annex 4).
The steering committe will meet as needed, but at least once each two months, with an
executive committee meeting between regular sessions of the steering committee as needed.
Its decisions are subject to confirmation by the full steering committee at its subsequent
session. The interministerial committee will meet a minimum of two times annually. Minutes
of meetings will be submitted to IDA as part of the progress reports (para. 4.7).
4.7   The project coordination unit (PCU). The PCU will be responsible for the routine
functioning of the project. It will organize working group seminars; it will handle IDA-
specific implementation matters, such as procurement, disbursements and project accounting.
The PCU will also be responsible for helping to develop the working agendas for meetings of
the steering committee and the interministerial committee. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government on submission to IDA of: (i) progress reports on the
implementation of the project not later than May 31 and November 30 of each year; (ii) annual
projected work programs and budgets not later than November 30 of each year; and (iii)



19
background documents for an annual review of progress to be organized and carried out with
IDA during the fourth quarter of each calendar year [para. 7.2 (f)]. A primary goal of the
PCU will be to move towards integration of its functions within the organizational structure of
the MESRSC over the life of the project. Job descriptions for project coordination unit
personnel were prepared during project preparation. These job descriptions are subject to
annual review.
4.8   Reporting and monitoring. The PCU will be responsible for submitting to IDA: (i)
semi-annual reports: these will include a summary of progress in procurement and in all key
project areas of activity, indicating strengths and weaknesses of Project implementation, and
definition of a work program with monitorable outputs for the following six-month period;
(ii) periodic evaluation of the training and skills aspects of the technical assistance provided;
(iii) a report on the mid-term evaluation of project progress; and (iv) an Implementation
Completion Report no later than six months after the closing date of the credit.
C. Implementation Schedule
4.9   The project will be implemented over a four-year period (1995-1999).  This time
period has been selected to provide ample time for the policy reform initiatives supported
under the project (front-loaded to the first two years of the project) and the accompanying
capacity-building activities. Annexes 1 and 5 provide the framework for implementation
activities and the basis for planning the physical aspects of project implementation. The
disbursement schedule for the operation is provided in Annex 13.
D. Procurement
4.10 All Bank-financed procurement of goods and services under the Project will be in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Table 2 summarizes the project elements as well as their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.  The Borrower's procurement
regulations and procedures have been reviewed by IDA, and proposals for improvement are
currently being discussed. Pending an agreement, IDA standard bidding documents will
continue to be systematically used for local procurement, as is being done satisfactorily under
current projects. ICB procurement will use the Bank's relevant standard bidding documents.
Selection of consulting firms for complex, time-based assignments will be done on the basis of
the Bank's standard letter of invitation and form of contract. Under the project, procurement
procedures will be undertaken as described in the following paragraphs.  The aggregate
amounts provided include taxes and duties. The submission of bidding documents acceptable
to IDA for all major packages to be procured through ICB during the first year of the project
is a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3 (d)].



20
Table 1
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million, including taxes and duties)
Categories                ICB      OTHER      N.I.F.      TOTAL
1. Equipment, Vehicles & Fumniture      1.6       0.1                     1.7
(1.2)     (0.1)       (-)        (1.3)
2. Training                                        1.7        -           1.7
(1.7)                  (1.7)
3. Consultant Services                             3.2                    3.2
(3.2)                 (3.2)
4. Operating Costs                                 0.7        -           0.7
(0.4)      (-)         (0.4)
TOTAL                                    1.6       5.7        0.0         7.4
(1.2)     (5.4)     (0.0)        (6.6)
Slight differences in amounts may occur due to rounding of figures. Figures in parenthesis are the
amounts financed by IDA. N.I.F. = Not IDA-financed.
4.11 Goods. International competitive bidding will be carried out in accordance with IDA
procurement for contracts with an estimated cost of US$100,000 or more for goods. Locally
manufactured goods, if any, will receive the margin of preference of 15% or the amount of
customs and duties, in accordance with Appendix 2, Section 1 to 5 of the Bank Procurement
Guidelines (January 1995). National Shopping up to an aggregate amount of US$70,000 or
IAPSO up to an aggregate amount of US$70,000 may be used for purchases of individual
vehicles or office equipment needed for the project that fall out of schedule with the main ICB
imports. It is expected that purchases through local shopping and/or IAPSO will not be in
excess of an aggregate amount of US$140,000 over the life of the project.
4.12 Consultants and services. Approximately 420 man-months of consultant services for
management, procurement, auditing and various sectoral and technical services, including
training totaling the aggregate amount of US$3.2 million equivalent, will be financed by the
project. This includes 78 man-months of international technical assistance. All technical
assistance is short-term. These services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on the "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (August 1981).
4.13 Miscellaneous. Other items not subject to competitive bidding include incremental
staff salaries, supervision and local training allowances, fuel, equipment and vehicle
maintenance, and other administrative expenses, not to exceed the aggregate amount of
US$600,000 during the life of the project. These items will be acquired and paid for
following regular government procedures defined in the implementation manual to be approved
by IDA.



21
4.14 Review by IDA. During project execution, bidding packages for IDA-financed
contracts above the threshold of US$100,000 for goods will be subject to IDA's prior review
procedures. This review will cover all contracts procured by ICB and about 75% of the total
value of contracts funded by IDA. The threshold for prior review of consultant services will
be US$100,000 for contracts with consulting firms, and US$50,000 for contracts with
individual consultants. Prior review will continue to be required for all terms of reference,
single source selection of firms, or assignments determined by IDA to be of a critical nature.
All other contracts will be subject to selective post review.
E. Disbursements
4.15  Disbursement will be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Disbursement
Handbook. The project is expected to be completed over a four-year period, with the IDA credit
disbursed over five years. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Schedule 3. All
applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for
expenditures for training, recurrent costs, and for contracts with a value of US$100,000
(US$50,000 for individual consultants) or less for goods and services for which reimbursement
may be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). The PCU will be responsible
for preparing withdrawal applications and SOEs to be submitted to IDA, and will indicate on the
SOEs the nature and origin of any goods and the payment date. These will be retained along
with all other supporting documentation for review by Bank supervision missions and
independent auditors.
4.16 Special accounts. A special account for US$500,000 will be made available to the
ProjectlMESRSC for payment of eligible expenditures. To facilitate disbursements, the
Government will open a Special Deposit Account (SDA) in a commercial bank to cover IDA's
share of eligible expenditures managed by MESRSC. IDA will make an initial deposit of
US$250,000 equivalent from the proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness and will replenish
the SDA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment of
the SDA will be submitted to IDA every month. Withdrawal applications for direct payment
from the Credit Account may be submitted for expenditures above US$50,000 equivalent
(US$100,000 once the entire initial advance has been paid). Supporting documentation will be
retained by the MESRSC and will be available for review as requested by IDA supervision
missions and project auditors.



22
Table 2
Withdrawal of Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Categories              Amounts of the Credit     % of expenditures to be financed
allocated              (net of taxes and duties)
(in SDR equivalent)
1. Equipment, Vehicles & Fumiture        700,000              100% of foreign expenditures;-
75 % of local expenditures.
2. Consultant Services & Training        2,620,000                      100%
3. Operating Costs                       340,000                         80%
4. Refunding of PPF                      450,000
5. Unallocated                           390,000                        100%
TOTAL                        4,500,000
F. Accounting, Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring
4.17   Auditing. The PCU  will maintain  accounts to record all Project expenditures,
commitments and reimbursements in accordance with international accepted accounting
principles. The appointment of an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to
IDA is a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3 (e)]. Advance contracting arrangements for
auditing services will be made prior to Project effectiveness with independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The auditors' report will also include a separate opinion with respect to
statements of expenditures, the Special Deposit Account, and a statement on the adequacy or
otherwise of the accounting system  and internal controls.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, will be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of the fiscal year [para. 7.2 (g)]. Project financial accounts will be
audited annually; audit reports will be sent to IDA no later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. Overdue audits will be considered grounds for suspension of disbursements under
the credit.
4.18 Reports. The PCU will be responsible for submitting to IDA: (i) semi-annual reports;
these will include a summary of progress in procurement and in all key project areas of
activity, indicating strengths and weaknesses of Project implementation, and definition of a
work program with monitorable outputs for the following six-month period; (ii) periodic
evaluation of the training and skills aspects of the technical assistance provided; (iii) a report
on the mid-term evaluation of project progress; and (iv) an Implementation Completion Report
no later than six months after the closing date of the credit.



23
5. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.1   Background. This project was developed in the context of a clear priority given by
the Government of Guinea to primary education, a priority which is articulated in its
statements of sectoral policy both for pre-university and for higher education. Further
evidence of this priority is reflected in budget trends, where Government has pursued over the
past five years a deliberate policy to increase primary education's overall share of the Guinean
education budget while reducing that of higher education. Given the particular weakness of
the data base in Guinea, the present analysis does not attempt to quantify the external benefits
of the higher education interventions planned, but looks rather at the internal efficiency savings
generated by the project (see Annex 1-B for information regarding wage differentials for
varying levels of education in Guinea). This analysis assumes, in line with the Government's
stated budget targets, that a portion of the cost savings from higher education will be
reallocated to finance the expansion of primary and lower secondary education.
5.2   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on March 1,1994,
calls for higher education reform "in light of severe shortcomings in the adequacy of higher
education training vis-a-vis economic development needs and high unit cost". The unit cost
per student in a Guinean institution of higher education in 1994, was approximately US$1,420,
which is close to the average for sub-Saharan Africa, although relatively modest by
francophone Africa standards. In terms of the quality and relevance of education, however, or
in terms of the numbers of qualified graduates which the system produces, unit costs can be
considered extraordinarily high.  Resource allocation is skewed toward scholarships and
salaries; quality, efficiency and equity are far too low and overhead costs and waste are far too
high.
5.3   The analysis presented below estimates internal savings and new revenues generated
through the project in four key areas, all of which were agreed by Government during
negotiations: (i) private resource mobilization, (ii) the opening of University social services
management to competitive bidding, (iii) restriction of scholarships, and (iv) increased
productivity of teaching and non-teaching personnel. A constant enrollment figure of 8500
full-time equivalent students is assumed for purposes of this analysis (there are currently 8104
students; enrollments increased at an average 11 % per year over the past four years but
Government has agreed to slow the growth of enrollment to 3 % per year over the next four
years--this would yield an average of approximately 8500 students per year).
5.4   Private resource mobilization will occur in two ways. Classes will be offered through
the open University concept on a credit-hour, cost recovery basis to part-time students in the
evenings. It is conservatively estimated that by the year 2000, these courses will represent 5%
of all full-time equivalent university students (FTE's), or approximately 400 FTE's. The
potential on the upside is much higher, with most Western universities reporting that part-time
adult students represent close to 50% of FTE's. In addition to evening courses, by the end of
the project an additional 400 regular students will be recruited annually on a paying basis.
This approach was successfully tested during the 1993-94 school year. These students will pay
approximately $400 annually (due upon enrollment); evening students will pay approximately



24
$800 per FTE equivalent annually). Total income through the program over four years is
estimated at $1,200,000 (see Table 3).
5.5    The Government opened the management of cafeteria services to competitive bidding
for the 1994-95 school year. While this pilot effort suffered a number of start-up difficulties
(one of the winning firms was ultimately unable to provide an appropriate level of service), the
Government has confirmed its commitment to private management of cafeteria services and
will maintain and extend this approach for the upcoming school year. The current annual cost
of cafeteria and dormitory services is just under $2,000,000, but reliable figures on past costs
are not available. Recent privatization in CMte d'Ivoire yielded savings of over 50%. A
similar program in Senegal lowered the unit cost of meals by about 70%. A conservative
estimate of 25 % additional savings for Guinea would yield annual savings of $500,000.
5.6    Student scholarships account for 34%  of the annual higher education budget. During
negotiations, Government agreed to reduce overall scholarship costs by a minimum of 5%
annually. This yields a total savings of $1.9 million over the course of the project, with
considerable additional savings expected over time.
Tuble 3
Cost-saving and Resource Mobilization Measures
(in thousands of US dollars)
Measure                 Description          1996    1997   1998   1999    Total
Overtime payments to    80% reduction over 2 yrs        86     173    173      173     605
teachers
Use of contract teachers    60% reduction over 2 yrs    65     130    130      130     455
Day laborers            30% reduction over 2 yrs        38      77     77      77      269
Cost recovery--evenings    Inc. of 100 students per year  80   160    240     320      800
Cost recovery--regular  Inc. of 100 students per year   40      80    120      160     400
Scholarships            5% annual reduction            195    381    557      724      1857
Cafeteria               25% savings                    500     500    500     500    2000
TOTAL                                                 1004    1501   1797    2084     6386
5.7   In addition, the annual cost to the higher education budget for contract teachers and
overtime fees for professors (US$1.98 million) represents about 42% of the total salary bill.
The Government's policy statement calls for progressive reduction of overtime payments and
an increase in teaching hours, with teaching assistants and instructors responsible for 12 hours
of classroom teaching each week and associate professors and full professors responsible for 10
hours of classroom teaching each week. By October 31, 1995, Government will issue an
arrete-ministeriel clarifying the equivalencies for laboratory supervision and small-group
mentoring (proposed at 2:1 and 1.5: 1, respectively). These measures are expected to result in
an effective average increase of 20-25 % in hours taught by each teacher. Based on these
measures, the Government has agreed to reduce overtime payments to teachers by 80% over
two years, and to reduce expenses for contract teachers by 60% over two years for four-year
savings of $455,000 and $269,000 respectively (see agreed performance indicators in Annex
6).   In  addition,  Government pays  approximately  $264,000  annually  to  laborers,



25
nightwatchmen, etc. It would reduce this amount by 30% over the first two years of the
project, for a four-year savings of about $269,000.
5.8   It is expected that other efficiency gains would be identified and implemented through
the project. These would include savings through the closing or re-orientation of marginal
programs, increased efficiency in administration of in-country scholarships, increased
efficiency due to improvements in communication, and lower repetition and dropout rates. On
the other hand, the project is expected to result in increased annual recurrent expenditures of
approximately US$100,000 for telephone and communication services, $250,000 for purchase
of teaching, laboratory, and library materials, and $40,000 for research grants (see Table 4).
After subtracting these increases in expenditure, the net annual savings from the project would
be approximately 1.2 million dollars, or just over 4.8 million dollars over the course of the
project. This represents an annual reduction of about 11 % of the current budget for higher
education and research. Of this amount, approximately two-thirds would be reinvested in
higher education and research activities and inputs to be identified. The remaining one-third
(approximately 1.5 million dollars) would be absorbed into the budget for primary and
secondary education, continuing a trend begun in 1990, over which period higher education
has declined from 29% to 18-20% of the education budget. The budget for 1996 is projected
to decline to 17%, a level at which it would stabilize.
Table 4
Additional Recurrent Costs
(in thousands of US dollars)
Measure     Descrip.       1996        1997        1998        1999        Total
Cormmuni-   Telephone          100         100         100         100         400
cations     & upkeep
Research    Matching            40          40          40          40         160
Grants      funds
Teaching,   Increase to        250         250         250         250        1000
Science,    reach 25 %
Library     of budget
Materials
TOTAL                          390         390         390         390        1560
5.9    Cost comparisons/least cost analysis. It is clear from the above that to maintain the
status quo with regards to higher education in Guinea would represent a costly option. Three
alternative financing approaches were considered at the time of project identification: (i) a
Government proposal for an investment project (cafeteria facilities, library infrastructure and
holdings, and science laboratories) to cost an estimated US$10.8 million; (ii) a proposal that
studies be conducted under PPF funding for up to US$1.25 million, leaving open any decision
about ultimate project costs; and (iii) the current technical assistance project (US$6.6 million



26
of IDA financing, US$7.4 million overall). The investment project was rejected as premature
and economically unsound, since at this stage of development in the sector, it would have
added to recurrent expenditures by upwards of US$400,000 annually, while providing little in
terms of external efficiency gains.  The sole reliance on PPF funding was considered
inadequate since it would have left a significant gap between the time that policy reform
decisions were taken and the time that training was provided for financial management of the
institutions and overall quality control functions. It was felt that this gap would jeopardize the
sustainability of reform initiatives. It was also felt that policy reforms could not be adequately
implemented in the absence of viable communications. The technical assistance approach was
considered to present lower risk and higher potential payoff, since it would lead to early
decisions about a new configuration of institutions, and provide for investment in needed
human resources and management capacity rather than in institutions or programs which might
ultimately be closed down. It would also lay the groundwork for any future investment and
provide time and technical guidance for a participatory process of fundamental change. The
technical assistance approach, with the addition of basic communications infrastructure at the
University of Conakry, was endorsed at the time of the green cover meeting for the higher
education sector report and again at the FEPS meeting.
5.10  Over the course of project preparation, clear signs of reform thinking have emerged
that would be accelerated through the interventions proposed in the project.  Individual
faculties have been given the right to limit student enrollments through administration of
entrance examinations. Guinea is thus one of the few countries in the region able to maintain
enrollments at manageable levels. Guinea has already moved to encourage private provision of
tertiary education and is moving to increase cost recovery.  An earlier decision to grant
institutional autonomy was finally implemented in 1994 through provision of partial block
grants to all institutions. A sectoral steering committee created by decree in February 1994
has begun to play an important decision-making role, and provided strong input throughout
project preparation. The project itself has been structured to ensure that future investments in
the Guinean higher education system can be planned on a least cost basis. For instance, a
series of studies will examine user-financed alternative delivery modes through the open
university concept.  This and other initiatives will provide the Government with clear
information and relevant experience regarding the feasibility of innovative low-cost approaches
for future investments. At the same time, options for future investment will be explored to
ensure that the system is able to meet Guinea's need for highly trained manpower over the
medium and long terms.



27
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1   The economic analysis conducted during project preparation focused on internal
efficiency savings generated by the project. The external benefits of the interventions planned
were not quantified because of the weakness of the existing data base, a weakness to be
addressed under the project. Internal savings and new revenues were estimated in four key
project areas: (i) private resource mobilization, (ii) the opening of University social services
management to competitive bidding, (iii) restriction of scholarships, and (iv) increased
productivity of teaching and non-teaching personnel. It was estimated that cost-savings and
resource mobilization will amount to US$6.4 million over the life of the project, and that
additional recurrent costs under the project will amount to US$1.6 million, for net savings
over four years of approximately US$4.8 million. Key performance indicators have been
included in Government's Policy Statement for Higher Education and Research (Annex 6).
6.2   The project will help the Guinean government ensure that future investments in the
sector are focused on sustainable activities and programs that can be shown to have an impact
on economic development. By introducing cost recovery measures, it obliges the sector to
initiate demand-driven programs which provide graduates with marketable skills. Through
development of criterion-based funding, along with accreditation mechanisms, the project
provides incentives to individual institutions to achieve long overdue cost efficiencies. Along
with the budgetary targets included in the Government's policy statement for higher education,
to be monitored throughout the project, this will further ensure that the absolute priority given
to primary education is maintained, and that funds are freed for the continued expansion of
primary and secondary education and for improvements in the quality of higher education.
Recasting the role of the MESRSC as one of support and quality control, rather than direct
management will reduce political tensions throughout the entire sector and provide a more
stable environment, conducive to the long-term sustainability of reform efforts.
B. Risks
6.3   The project is low risk. Policy reform measures have been front-loaded early in the
project cycle to ensure that they remain the focus of activities and the subject of the annual and
mid-term reviews. The main short-term risks include the availability of capable leadership to
guide the reform process and potential opposition from interest groups (students, faculty) that
may see themselves as losers in the process; long-term risks include the potential failure of
Government to provide adequate ongoing budgetary support and the converse possibility that
increased investments in higher education will draw resources away from primary education.
These risks cannot be entirely eliminated, but they have been addressed through the
participatory, consensual approach taken to project development.  Intensive budgetary
discussions were held with representatives from the MEPUFP and the MESRSC, as well as the
Ministry of Finance, to ensure agreement on budgetary funding that gives a continuing priority
to primary education. These agreements are included in the policy letters for both ministries



28
and will be a focus of annual and mid-term reviews for this project and for the Equity and
School Improvement Project approved by the Board in May 1995.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted the following documents to IDA:
(a)   A draft policy statement for higher education and research (para. 2.7);
(b)   Draft terms of reference for consultant services and studies for the first year of
the project (para. 3.5); and
(c)   A draft implementation manual (para. 4.2).
7.2   During negotiations, IDA and the Government reached agreement on:
(a)   The policy statement for higher education and research, including monitorable
performance criteria and a policy reform agenda (para. 2.12);
(b)   Terms of reference for consultant services and studies for the first year of the
project (para. 3.5);
(c)   The draft implementation manual (para. 4.2);
(d)   Establishment of a management information system to enable the MESRSC to
track annual monitoring indicators (para. 4.3);
(e)   The interministerial committee's responsibility for ensuring that a mid-term
review to evaluate the progress made in implementing the project is carried out
with IDA by December 1997 and the steering committee's responsibility for
prompt implementation of all measures agreed upon with IDA as a result of the
mid-term review (para. 4.6);
(f)   Submission to IDA of: (i) progress reports on the implementation of the project
not later than May 31 and November 30 of each year; (ii) annual projected work
programs and budgets not later than November 30 of each year; and (iii)
background documents for an annual review of progress to be organized and
carried out with IDA during the fourth quarter of each calendar year (para.
4.7); and



29
(g)   Submission to IDA of annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail,
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 4.17).
7.3   As conditions for credit effectiveness, the Government will have:
(a)   established a budget unit with internal audit responsibilities, and a computerized
accounting system acceptable to IDA (para. 3.21);
(b)   adopted the implementation manual (para. 4.2);
(c)   established a management information system to enable the MESRSC to track
annual monitoring indicators (para. 4.3);
(d)   submitted bidding documents acceptable to IDA for all major contracts to be
procured through ICB during the first year of the project (para. 4.10); and
(e)   appointed an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.17).
7.4   Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for a credit of SDR 4.5 million (US$6.6 million equivalent) to the Republic of Guinea
on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.






30
Annex 1-A
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total area (thousands of square kilometers) ..................................                                                 246
Per capita GNP ..................................                                                                        US$537
Total population (millions) ..................................                                                                 6.2
Urban population as %  of total population ..................................                                              27.3%
Average annual population growth rate (1987-92) ..................................                                           2.8%
Life expectancy (years) ..................................                                                                       44
Infant mortality (per thousand live births) .................................. 133.2
Fertility rate ..................................                                                                               6.5
Crude birth rate (per thousand) ..................................                                                              49
Crude death rate (per thousand) ..................................                                                              21
Age structure of population (% of total)
0-14 years .................................. 46.7%
15-64 years ...........:                                                                                         50.7%
Total adult illiteracy rate .................                                                                                 76%
Female adult illiteracy rate .................                                                                                87%
Gross enrollment rate
Primary ................,,,..,..,...,....,,..,.,....,.,...,,,.43%
Secondary ................... 10%
Female participation (as percentage of total enrollment)
Primary ..............                                                                                            32.8%
General secondary....,,..,,...... 23.7%
Higher education .................... 6%
Pupil/Teacher ratio
Primary ...................,,.,,.,,,,,.,.........,,.,....,.......,,.....,...,,,.49
Secondary ...,,,........ 19
Tertiary .                                                                                                             10
Transition rate (primary to secondary) .......................... 62.3%
Repetition rates
Primary ..........,... 18%
Secondary .                                                                                                      22.5%
Tertiary (1982) ......... 18.4%
Sources: The World Bank, World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health. The World Bank,
Social Indicators of Development, 1994. Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training,
Conakry, Guinea, Annuaire statistique, 1991-92, 1992-93, 1993-94. The World Bank, Guinea Higher
Education and Research Sector Note 1993.



31
ANNEX 1-B
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
E IIGEP EDUCATIONMANAGEENDT SUPPORT PROJECT
MALE-FMILE COMARISONS OF PREDIC=D HOURLY EARNWGS
(in Guinean fan=cs)
.......................................  .........................................................................................................................................   .
Education level     Public wage        Private wage     Self-employment
completed           (GNF)        .     (CN
Men  Women  Men  Women  Men  Women
None                  258       104.    244       259      461        203
0 Primag School       349 !     192      315      292      573        273
Secondary school      371       2361                       887        263
U499      387      612      5S8    1665        1273
y~~-_-                          ---_
All,                  3031      146      298       295     5811       26
Note: From Glick and Sahn, Labor Force Participation, Sectoral Choice, and Earnings in Conary, Guinea,
CorneLI Food and Nutridon Policy Program Worksing Paper 43, 1993



32
ANNEX 1-C
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUJPPORT PROJECT
FLOW CHART OF THE GuiNEAN EDUcAnoN SYSTEm
MARCHE
DU
TRAVAIL
DES
UNIVERSITE
5-7 ANS
_>   MARCHE
DU
TRAVAIL
BTS
L
Y                 BA C2    12_
E
E
_fp ~   MARCHE
DU
TRAVAIL
CAP
c                               3e
O                BEPC           26:                      Legende
L                   _l rero
L                                                     D6crochage
E
G                                                  j  Easeigncment professionnel
E
Enseignomentg6n6ral
L         1      CEPE
E
M       ___ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _
E
N       _________-_________
T
A
I
R
E



33
ANNEX 2-A
Page 1 Of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIEs
(in US$ '000)
Activity                  Cost   Cost    Cost   Cost  4-Year
Yearl  Year2    Year3  Year4   Totals
UNIVERSITY OF CONAKRY
Institutional reorganization
Privatization of cafeteria services           30
Review of governance systems                  60       20        20    10
Competitive research grants                   60       60       60    60
Measurement of student achievement            50
Legal framework                                6
Fit between employment/training               65       36        36
Statistical analysis of student flow          40       30       30
Evaluation/action plan for personnel          40       20        20    20
management
Open university-cost recovery, adult ed., night  70    39       45    30
school
Library services                                       19        21    24
Comparative regional study visits             30       30       30
Reorganization of student services management    35
Sub-total   486      254      262   144       1146
Information and communication
Information systems                          150       80       70    10
Telecommunications                           388       40       41    42
Radiocommunications (links with Kindia        40
campus)
Internet                                      78
Sub-total   656      120      111    52        939
Budgetary programming and monitoring
Budgetary programming and monitoring          83      123       63    63
Sub-total    83      123       63    63         33
TOTAL CONAKRY                    1225     497       436   259       2417



34
ANNEX 2-A
Page 2 of 5
UNIVERSITY OF KANKAN
Institutional reorganization
Evaluation/action plan for personnel         30       15      15    15
management
Tracer study-fit between training and        43       18      20    13
employment
Competitive research grants                  20       20      20    20
Review of university governance              30       10      10
Reorganization of student services           30       10      10      8
Study of library services and needs          17       11      11    21
Sub-total    170     84       86    77       417
Information and communication
Information systems                          70       32      32      3
Telecommunications                           30        5       6      6
Radiocommunications (links with Kindia       31
campus)
Sub-total    131     37       38     9       215
Budgetary programming and monitoring
Budgetary programming and monitoring         33       45      25    25
Sub-total    33      45       25    251
TOTAL KANKAN                    334      1661    149   111       760
INSTITUT DE BOKE
Institutional reorganization
Tracer study of graduates                    20      10       10      7
Restructuring/privatization/program evaluation  36   20      20      20
Linkages with Institut Polytechnique         33      16       18    10
Sub-total    89      46      48     37       220
Information and communication
Information system                           25      13       13
Communications                               20
Sub-total    45      13      13      0        71
Budgetary programming and monitoring
Budgetary programming and monitoring         12      15        8      9
Sub-total    12      15       8      9        44
TOTAL BOKE                     146     74       69     46       335



35
ANNEX 2-A
Page 3 of 5
ISSEG (SCIENCES DE LEDUCATION)
Institutional reorganization
Decentralized management-modules, contract    61      19       14     14
teachers
Study visits                                   5       8        8      8
Creation of special needs courses (principals,  14     9        9     10
GT, LD, ag.)
Sub-total    80      36       31     32      179
Information and communication
Information System                            25      13       13
Communications                                10
Sub-total    35      13       13       0      61
Budgetary programming and monitoring
Budgetary programming and monitoring          12      15        8      9
Sub-total    12      15        8       9      44
TOTAL ISSEG                     127     64        52     41     284
ISAV (INSTITUT DE FARANAH)
Institutional reorganization
Program Evaluation                            30      20       20      15
Reorganization of personnel management        40      18       20     20
Development of fee-generating activities      12
Sub-total    82      38       40     35      195
Information and communication
Information system                            20      13       13
Communications                                10
Sub-total    30      13      -13      0       56
Budgetary programming and monitoring
Budgetary programming and monitoring          12      15        8      9
Sub-total    12      15        8       9      44
TOTAL ISAV                     124      66       61     44     295
,.              %a~~~~~~~~~~~S



36
ANNEX 2-A
Page 4 of 5
CERESCOR
Institutional reorganization
Evaluation of scientific and administrative   50      25       25    24
management
Creation of self-financing mechanisms         25      12       13    10
Comparative regional study visits             15      10       10    10
Sub-total    90      47       48    44       229
nformation and communication
Information system                            20      13       13
Communications                                10
Sub-total    30      13       13      0       56
Budgetary programming and monitoring
Budgetary programming and monitoring          12      15        8      9
Sub-total    12      15        8      9       44
TOTAL CERESCOR                    132      75       69    53       329
IRBAG
Institutional reorganization
Establishment of IRBAG/University links       21       17      17    15
Evaluation of cost generation potential       19
Action plan for management reorganization     30       17      18    15
Sub-total    70      34       35    30       169
Information and communication
Information system                            20       13      13
Communications                                15
Sub-total    35       13      13      0       61
Budgetary programming and monitoring                           _
Budgetary programming and monitoring          12       15       8      8
Sub-total    12       15       8      8       43
TOTAL IRBAG                     117      62       56    38       273



37
ANNEX 2-A
DIRECTORATE H[GHER EDUCATION
nstitutional reorganization
Establishmnent of accreditation procedures     67       46       48    50
Development of competitive funding criteria     40      14       14    14
Student scholarship criteria                   57       17       17    17
Sub-total    164      77       79    81        401
Information and communication
Information system                            304       47       31    21
Communications                                  15
Sub-total    319      47       31    21        418
Budgetary programming and monitoring
Budgetary programming and monitoring           117     183      107    87
Sub-total    117     183      107    87        494
TOTAL DIRECT. FOR H. EDUCATION              600      307      217   189       1313
DIRECTORATE FOR SCIENCE
RESEARCH
Institutional reorganization
Establishment of a national research council    81      43       44    37
Sub-total     81      43       44    37        205
Information and communication
Development of computerized data bases         37       30       20    15
Sub-total     37      30       20    15        102
TOTAL RESEARCH DIRECTORATE                 118       73      64    52        307
OTHER RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS
Institutional reorganization                    85      42       43    38
Communications                                 20            _
TOTAL OTHER RESEARCH                   105       42      43    38        228
ADMEISTRATION
Project Administration                         105     108      111   115
PPF Refinancing                               390
TOTAL ADMNISTRATION                    495      108     111   115        829
PROJECT TOTALS                    3523    1534    1327   986        7370
,,-



38
ANNEX 2-B
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
TRAINING AND SKILLS TRANSFER
1.    The Higher Education Management Support Project aims to help decision makers at all
levels to improve their capacity to reform Guinea's education system. With regards to technical
assistance, the strategy adopted is to recruit high caliber expertise with a comnrnitment to on-the-
job training and the ability to transfer skills and knowledge. This orientation is a major focus of
the consultant terms of reference already drafted for technical advisors to be recruited under the
Project. To ensure that training and skills transfer receive priority during implementation, several
actions have been taken:
(a)   The consultant profiles developed for all technical advisor posts emphasize the
importance of training, team building and communication skills. These criteria will
be weighted heavily during the consultant selection process.
(b)   All terms of reference for consultant support outline a proposed process of
interaction between technical expert and ministerial or institutional staff, as well as
with other stakeholders as appropriate. The technical advisors will be required to
interact with Ministry and institutional personnel in a "working group" format, in
order to encourage participation and dissemination of information. The technical
advisors will be responsible for organizing workshops in stakeholders discuss their
objectives and strategies. They will also organize training seminars and fora in
which Ministry and institutional staff will present the results of their work to their
colleagues. The emphasis will be on appropriation of skills by Ministry and
institutional counterparts.
(c)   All terms of reference include criteria for evaluating the work of technical advisors
with heavy emphasis on achieving training and skills appropriation objectives.
2.    Because of the emphasis placed on developing and implementing management tools and
information flow procedures and on improving work methods and practices, on-the-job training is
most suited to achieving the Project's capacity-building objectives. The bulk of training under the
Higher Education Management Support Project will be provided on the job. Workshops and
seminars will also be organized to facilitate inter-office communication and the dissemination of
information. Arrangements will be made under the information systems component to train key
personnel in the use of relevant software, and to provide trouble-shooting support throughout the
project period. This training will be conducted in the context of group sessions. The training
aspects of this Project will be considered a success if, at the end of Project implementation,
Ministry staff were able to use new tools, information and work methods to articulate needs and
justify decision-making processes, particularly in the context of requests for operating and
investment resources.               



HlEXCUTFJILS
REPIWUKE DE GUIME
PROJET DOAPPU4 AU DEVEtOPFf4EHM T DE L'T                                DEVRLOPStEOIT OtSTtTUTtONNEL
Eg-Mmo A60tds by C-        frtds - Tooda                                                                               CEWTRAL
(USS V0W)                                                                                                              ftASTRY                                                                                DEVELOPPEMENT Dr
CENT4RAL       .                                                                                 STRUCTUROPROCESSUS
tMNISTRY * DIRECTION                          SYSTEME OE STATISTIOUES IE DE LA COMMNINCATtION          FINANCERES
ENSEIGNEM4EN   ODE       MTITUTIONS   PROJECT          SYSTEME    SYSTEVSE DE        COLLECTE DE    CEt TXAL               RfFHANT!EET
BOKE FARANA KANKAN ERESCO  IRDAG  MANEAHCONAK9RYA    SUPERIEUR  ECHERCH  E RECHERCH AO0OSTRATIO OlNFORMATIO  OMtJ6CATIO ONNEESJSTATISTIQl MtISTRY NTITUIION  DE LAVANCE    TodA
L Omliid Cers
A E r.o4                                   29.6    21.1    U.S      29.      22.23   2n.6        200.5         61.S      29.t          29.6                        220.0         510.1                 I".9      24.1       102.1             _      11.1
B. V.Mcfts..                                                  .        -                .        -                                       -              .              .                                          l             .             .      50.1
C. Mt.-                                                                                                                       -                                     13.                                          26.2        40.2             .        B71
D. R .we m    de r-                          -       *                 -              -                                    -                                                                                          -  -                t.0       650.0
. Fo..n.
LmanA                                   54.2    42.1    93.6      42.1    16.7    46.6         2392          6324      41.3         42.1              *61.3                     52.3                 03.6    140.4        17.2              *    200.7
Ar. v.                                   33 3     a6    23.2      6a      166     110          947          538       23.3          200                                           *                  133      s6.1           .             .       926
Subtot4a Fonlm1n                           B9.4    58 8   126 9     St0.     35.4    57.0        333 9        147.4      64.6         62.1              .          161.3          52.3                106.9    2015.         I7.2             -    1.744.3
F. SI.k... d.. .0.646
Ntiob                                   33.1    37.6    6s.1      37.6    47.3    223          227.0         47.3      965          47.3           72633 64                     26 7                 0.3       264         92.4                  1.2000
k6.m.mn                                 236    236       67.2     67 3    33.6    336          269.1         07.2      67 3 33226                     -          1497           6s2.                 63 16.e             201.6            1-30t 4
SWA.4.4S-k-4d.. 0n646.,4.                 667    71.5   152.4    1051        09    573          4961          114a6      76.7          s09           283          22332           916                 1544      1467        2042              -   250 4
To  hlI .. I-Id Co..                        10600   1600   347.6    193.7      ie2   144.9       1.030.6        2202      171.1         172            208           63625         654.3                451.2    464.0        623.7         60.0   6,47.9                 0
L R..-.0.   Col.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .4
es-                                                          - .      .          .       .                                 -            -            96.0                        40 0                                                               13t.0             tS]
B. Co,As do lan.lI-n... 19                        1025    46 a      625    140   Is5            55.1          408       195           19               2 54t *a                  97.6                 41.9      202         19.5             .     200                 n
T4JR...n.d.6CoI.                             92     92     496 ns0.    4.6    l02                221          406       n0.2s         I92            5425          46           1376                  419       290.        19                     7160 0
Ttol4 PROJECT COSTS                         205.5   17965   390.6    213.2   153.3  14.4         1093.7        279.3      190 6        192.3          430 3         665.2          791.9                493.1    493.9       643.2          60.0   7,242.0
Tao.s                                       6.9     6.6    2.8      6.9      5.2     66          54.5         IS.6       0.9           6.9              *          54.3         117.7                 432.      31.2        21.2             .      407.1 
Fo rg46.~Eodlao0e                         99.2    79.9   169.2    113.5    70.0    75.1          6ez.s       It9.7      1200          63.2           1.9          320.4         275.                 200.9    25.67        30t.1         325.0   32393.3               L3 Lj
H
(I-
0
t-OS
t.Jl
Page I



ANNEX 3
40                                         Page 2 of 5
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING TABLES
I5,  fi   3!   I 2   I ENts 
02 | -'S'~    S S1 - -t  -!  s
!  -  2   , ,''
*' n' sn- -ir-i--- _,- 
E  -j-2  ooose
i~~j ji.   .-Fz
lijJl  t "1*K-l '1ig -~
Zn! *    B!S!X-wo_
-I  g      -        Nil o  lrS- s
!k* .     5 !|0  S|*-I|
'I O     1RXAll   11
I        I  -e .oo    11  
hj       I   d,2-!    q. 2
g     2!   ! S:!  i' S jjiJu    '''



HISUMCOM.XLS
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET D'APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPE                                                                                %      % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                            (Local 000)                        (USS '000)            Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
A. DEVELOPPEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL
BOKE                                                            87,628.8    86,455.2    174,084.0      89.6      88.4      178.0       50       3
FARANAH                                                         82,152.0    69,438.0    151,590.0      84.0      71.0      155.0      46        2
KANKAN                                                         187,384.8    146,895.6    334,280.4    191.6     150.2     341.8       44        5
CERESCOR                                                        82,152.0    98,778.0    180,930.0      84.0     101.0      185.0       55       3
IRBAG                                                           68,655.6    60,929.4    129,585.0      70.2      62.3      132.5      47        2
MANEAH                                                          73,545.6    65,330.4    138,876.0      75.2      66.8      142.0       47       2
CONAKRY/IPC                                                    425,625.6    507,582.0    933,207.6    435.2     519.0     954.2       54       15
CENTRAL MINISTRY - ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR                      156,088.8    164,499.6    320,588.4    159.6     168.2      327.8      51        5      g
CENTRAL MINISTRY - DIRECTION DE RECHERCHE                       57,897.6    104,450.4    162,348.0     59.2     106.8      166.0      64        3      c
INSTITUTIONS DE RECHERCHE                                       89,976.0    72,372.0    162,348.0      92.0      74.0      166.0      45        3
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                         361,468.8    14,083.2    375,552.0     369.6      14.4     384.0        4        6      H
Subtotal DEVELOPPEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL                          1,672,575.6  1,390,813.8  3,063,389.4    1,710.2    1,422.1    3,132.3    45      48      g
B. SYqTEME DE STATISTIQUES ET DE LA COMMUNICATION                                                                                                        cn
SYSTEME DINFORMATION                                           304,999.1    278,554.0    583,553.0    311.9     284.8     596.7       48        9      H
SYSTEME DE COMMUNICATION                                       353,547.0    325,429.5    678,976.5   361.5      332.8     694.3       48       11
COLLECTE DE DONNEES/STATISTIQUES                               238,338.6    183,912.9    422,251.5   243.7      188.1     431.8       44        7
Subtotal SYSTEME DE STATISTIQUES ET DE LA COMMUNICATION          896,884.7    787,896.4  1,684,781.0   917.1      805.6    1,722.7      47       27      ej
C. DEVELOPPEMENT DE STRUCTURE/PROCESSUS FINANCIERES
CENTRAL MINISTRY                                               196,675.8    220,881.3    417,557.1   201.1      225.9      427.0      53        7
INSTITUTION                                                    276,382.8    267,042.9    543,425.7   282.6      273.1     555.7       49        9      c-
Subtotal DEVELOPPEMENT DE STRUCTURE/PROCESSUS FINANCIE    473,058.6    487,924.2    960,982.8           483.7     498.9      982.6      51       15      H
z
D. REFINANCEMENT DE L'AVANCE                                     317,850.0    317,850.0    635,700.0   325.0      325.0     650.0       50       10      C)
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            3,360,368.9  2,984,484.4  6,344,853.2    3,436.0   3,051.6    6,487.6    47      100
Physical Contingencies                                         196,437.2    178,193.6    374,630.7   200.9      182.2     383.1       48        6
Price Contingencies                                            326,476.2   155,920.8    482,397.0    333.8      159.4     493.2       32        8 1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             3,883,282.2  3,318,598.7  7,201,880.9    3,970.6    3,393.3   7,363.9    46      114 V'
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
(Dm
0
I-n
Page 1



HISUMEA.XLS
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET DAPPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'E                                                                            %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary             (Local '000)                       (USS '000)            Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipement                             633,509.3    739,094.2  1,372,603.4    647.8     755.7    1,403.5      54       22
S. Vehicules                               33,447.6     12,616.2    46,063.8      34.2      12.9      47.1       27        1
C. Mobiliers                               48,704.4     17,604.0    66,308.4      49.8      18.0      67.8       27        1
D. Refinancement de ravance               317,850.0    317,850.0    635,700.0    325.0     325.0     650.0       50       10
E. Formation
Locale                                  868,072.8    268,363.2  1,136,436.0    887.6     274.4    1,162.0      24       18
A 1'etrangere                                  -    346,212.0    346,212.0        -      354.0     354.0      100        5
Subtotal Formation                        868,072.8    614,575.2  1,482,648.0    887.6     628.4    1,516.0      41       23
F. Services des consultants
Nationale                               997,560.0           -    997,560.0    1,020.0        -    1,020 0        -      16
Internationale                                 -  1,144,260.0  1,144,260.0        -    1,170.0    1,170.0     100       18
Subtotal Services des consultants         997,560.0  1,144,260.0  2,141.8200    1,020.0    1,170.0   2,190.0     53       34
Total Investment Costs                     2,899,144.1  2,845,999.6  5,745,143.6    2,964.4    2,910.0    5,874.4  50       91                           t
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaires                               133,008.0           -    133,008.0     136.0         -      1360         -       2                           C)
B. Couts de fonctionnement                328,216.8    138,484 8    466,701.6    335.6     141.6     477.2       30       7                            o
Total Recurrent Costs                       461,2248    138,484.8    599,709.6     471.6     141.6     613.2       23       9                            H
Total BASELINE COSTS                       3,360,368.9  2,984,484.4  6,344,853.2    3,436.0    3,051.6   6,487.6    47     100
Physical Contingencies                    196,437.2    178,193.6    374,630.7   200.9      182.2     383.1       48       6
Price Contingencies                       326,476.2    155,920.8    482,397.0   333.8      159.4     493.2       32       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                        3,883,282.2  3,318,598.7  7,201.880.9   3,970.6   3,393.3    7,363.9     46     114
C)
I.
OQ 
Pgm1
Pagel1



EXPFIN.XLS
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET D'APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT DE LENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
Gouvernement           IDA               Total                    (Excl.   Duties &
Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %       For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipement                            431.7    23.1    1.439.1    76.9    1,870.8    25.4       998.9     440.2    431.7
B. Vehicules                              20.4    36.3       35.7    63.7       56.1     0.8        15.0      20.8     20.4
C. Mobiliers                               9.1    11.5       70.3    88.5       79.4     1.1        20.6      49.7      9.1
D. Rerinancernent de ravance                 -        -     390.0   100.0      390.0     5.3      195.0      195.0
E. Formation
Locale                                   0.0        -    1,350.7   100.0    1.350.7    18.3      306.3   1,044.3        -
A retrangere                               -        -     393.6   100.0      393.6     5.3       393.6         -        -
Subtotal Formation                         0.0        -    1,744.3   100.0   1,744.3    23.7       700.0    1,044.3       -
F. qervices des consultants
Nationale                                  -        -    1,200.0   100.0   1,200.0    16.3          -    1,200.0        -                        H
Internationale                             -        -    1,306.4   100.0   1,306.4    17.7    1,306.4          -        -                        0
0
Subtotal Services des consultants            -        -    2,506.4   100.0   2,506.4    34.0    1,306.4   1,200.0         -
Total Investment Costs                     461.2      6.9    6,185.8    93.1    6,647.0    90.3    3,235.8   2,950.0    461.2                        ' 
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salalres                              136.0   100.0          -       -      136.0     1.8          -      136.0        -
B. Couts de fonctionnement               179.1    30.9      400.9    69.1      580.0     7.9      165.8      407.9      6.3
Total Recurrent Costs                      315.1    44.0      400.9    56.0      716.0     9.7       165.8     543.9      6.3                        H
Total Disbursement                          776.3    10.5    6,586.6    89.5   7,363.0   100.0    3,401.6   3,493.8    467.6
tsi
cn
'I'd
0
Page 
r
Ah
Page I



44
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SlUPPORT PROJECT
MiD-TERM REViEw
1.    The mid-term review is an important part of the supervision plan for this project. Its goal
is to determine the progress achieved for each project component as a function of the initial
objectives. It will take place approximately two years after project effectiveness and will provide
the key opportunity to ensure that needed policy reforms are in place.  Agreement on
implementation of a matrix of policy reforms is included in the Development Credit Agreement as
a dated covenant. The mid-term review will examine project-specific implementation as well as
broader project impact on Ministry and institutional operations and will be the joint responsibility
of the World Bank and the Government of Guinea. The following evaluation criteria, broken
down by project component, will be used:
(a)   Institutional reorganization
(i)   agreement on implementation of a policy reform matrix, including:
a.    competitive criteria for block grants to institutions;
b.    teaching hours and conditions for contract and tenured professors;
c.    curtailing and prioritizing of student scholarships, with a significant
increase in the proportion of female students;
d.    application of user fees and cost recovery;
e.    privatization of cafeteria and other services;
f     closing of marginal programs and institutions; and
g.    increased financing for non-salary expenditures.
(ii)   successful execution of study agendas for the first two years;
(iii)  development and application of accreditation processes by the Ministry of
Higher Education;
(iv)   planning and execution of training programs.
(v)   information and communication systems
,,.                   %%



45
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
(vi)   clear definition of operational responsibilities for data collection, analysis
and dissemination, with successful preparation of statistical yearbook, data
collection protocols, personnel files, student database (for both institutional
and central Ministry levels);
(vii)  functional institution-level data systems;
(viii)  installation and use of a campus telephone system at the University of
Conakry;
(ix)   effective functioning of the electronic communication network; and
(x)   installation and use of radio communications equipment for institutions not
linked by telephone.
(b)   Budgetary programming and monitoring
(i)   training of DAAF personnel for use of computerized accounting system;
(ii)   effective use of software packages, database management, computerized
budget programs, development of data collection protocols and norms, etc;
(iii)   effective monitoring of budget execution for the 1996 and 1997 school
years by institution in accordance with the budgetary model;
(iv)   functioning of an internal audit unit.
(c)    Project administration
(i)    clear evidence of the effectiveness of specialists recruited for the proect:
proof of technology appropriation by national staff, a demonstrable success
rate for in-service training programs, a history of quick identification and
deployment of competent technical specialists;
(ii)   the level of performance of the project coordinator corresponding to the
evaluation criteria defined in terms of reference established for the position,
including follow-up of field work, effective public relations, sound fiscal
management, timely preparation of project-related documents, and
preparation of agendas for meetings of the steering and intersectoral
committees;



46
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
(iii) completion of the first-year audit in a timely fashion, with satisfactory
evidence of appropriate accounting;
(iv)  timely replenishment of the Special Deposit Account and the Project
Account, with appropriate supporting documentation;
(v)   procurement and disbursement procedures understood by personnel of the
project coordinating unit, and routinely implemented without significant
delay;
(vi)  agreement on future role of PCU; and
(vii) decision regarding future configuration of higher education, including
elimination or consolidation of marginal programs and institutions.



47
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/SUPERVISION PLAN
Key Dates                 Implementation Step              Responsibility
1994
May/June            Appraisal                        IDA
*     November            Agreement on first-year
study program, TOR's             Steering CommitteeAlDA
1995
*     .September          Negotiations                     Government/IDA
October             Final version of Implementation
Manual                           Government
Board Presentation               IDA
1996
-     February            Declaration of Effectiveness      IDA
-                         Project Launch/Consultation      Interm. Committee/IDA
(Project Supervision)            Steering Comrmittee/IDA
*     May                 First Progress Report due        Project Coordination
*     October             Consultation                      Steering Committee/IDA
(Project Supervision)            Steering Committee/IDA
Agreement on second-year
study program, TOR's            Interm. Committee/IDA
*     November            Confirmation of Auditor for       Steering Committee
1995 Project Accounts            Project Coordination
Second Progress Report due



48
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
Ky Dates                  Implementation Step              Responsibility
1997
*  May                    Third Progress Report due        Project Coordination
Consultation (Project Supervision)    Steering Committee/IDA
*  October                Consultation                     Steering Committee/IDA
(Project Supervision)           Steering Committee/IDA
Agreement on third-year
study program, TOR's            Intern. Committee/IDA
*  November               Mid-term Review of Project
Progress                        Interm. Committee/IDA
Confirmation of Auditor for
1996 Project Accounts -         Steering Committee
Fourth Progress Report due      Project Coordination
1998
  April                  Consultation                     Steering Committee/IDA
(Project Supervision)           Steering Committee/IDA
*  May                    Fifth Progress Report due        Project Coordination
*  October                Agreement on fourth year study
program, TORs                   Interm. Committee
*  November               Sixth Progress Report due        Project Coordination
1999
*  May                    Consultation (Project Supervision)    Steering Committee/IDA
Seventh Progress Report due     Project Coordination
TORs for Implementation         Steering Committee/IDA
Completion Report
*  October                Completion mission               Interm. Committee/IDA
*  December               Final Progress Report due        Project Coordination
Project Closure                 IDA
2000
*  June                   Review of Implementation         Steering Committee/IDA
Completion Report



49
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
7 :t00 0000~~.        il-.l  - l -  i ;... 7;--$;-0|-0i .0  0L...........   ..   . .   .. .   ...  .. w   .. . .
PROJECT      Project Launch Workshop      Implementation                                   I
Year I                                   Education                                       1
Project Management                              I
Resident Mission                                I
Education                                       2
Telecommunications                              2
Supervision Mission         Resident Mission                                 1
TOTAL                                                                        9
PROJECT       1st Joint Annual Review     Implementation                                   I
Year 2                                  Education                                        I
Resident Mission                                I
Education                                       2
Project Management                              2
Supervision Mission         Resident Mission                                 2
TOTAL                                                                        9
PROJECT      Mid-Term Review              Implementation                                  2
Year 3                                   Education                                       2
Project Management                              2
Telecommunications                              I
Resident Mission                                2
Education                                       I
Project Management                              I
Supervision Mission         Resident Mission                                 1
TOTAL                                                                       12
PROJECT       2nd Joint Annual Review     Implementation                                   1
Year 4                                   Education                                       1
Resident Mission                                I
Education                                       2
Project Management                              2
Supervision Mission         Resident Mission                                 2
TOTAL                                                                        9
(Completion Mission)        To be detemiined



50
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
POLICY STATEMENT FOR HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
Background
1.   In 1984, there were 10,994 students in 39 institutions of higher education in Guinea, with
1,981 teachers. Recognizing the serious distortions of the sector, as well as the complete lack of
financial viability and quality, the national conference on education held in May/June 1984
established a far-reaching program to improve quality and efficiency. Today, as a result of that
effort, the sector manages two universities and three specialized institutions of higher learning,
with 8,104 students and 786 full-time professors.
2.    The research sector has also undergone profound changes. Many research institutions
operate under the aegis of other ministries, leaving the Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific
Research and Culture (MESRC) to manage nine research centers and three documentation
centers.
3.    The dramatic reduction in numbers and the recent decision to grant the institutions of
higher education greater administrative and financial autonomy bear witness to the determination
of the government to create high-quality institutions. However, the level of material and financial
resources available, the relevance of the teaching and research programs, the efficiency with
which they are managed, and the quality of graduates and research products all are far below what
has been intended. For this reason, the government has decided to redefine its development
strategy for this sector.
Sectoral issues
4.    Relevance of training and research. It is now widely recognized that the capacities
which University students bring to bear on problems in the marketplace are unsatisfactory to the
few potential employers and to the teachers themselves. More broadly, the major challenges
ahead with regards to the development of the sector are as follows: (i) to redefine programs and
courses as a function of marketplace and manpower needs, in line with the country's policies for
job creation; (ii) to reallocate sectoral resources as a function of established priorities; (iii) to limit
the number of students entering higher education according to established need; and (iv) to
establish links among the teaching institutions, among the research institutions, and between the
teaching and research institutions. These concerns taken as a whole require new paradigms for
the strategic goals of higher education and research over the short, medium and long terms. The
development of these paradigms must be a participative process, including all of the principal
stakeholders, including the students themselves as well as potential employers.



51
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
5.    Inputs and system efficiency. A significant change in the respective roles of the central
ministry and the institutions constitutes a necessary prerequisite for responding to the concerns
mentioned above. At the central level, there must be a capacity to: (i) define and communicate to
the institutions the national priorities for the sector; and (ii) monitor the extent to which these
priorities are being carried out.
6.    At the institutional level, it is imperative that information concerning: (i) market conditions
and dynamics; (ii) the number and type of qualifications required by the economy as a function of
currently utilized production technologies and techniques; (iii) optimal approaches for the
acquisition of these competencies; and (iv) the best means to ensure that competencies acquired
are correctly utilized. An appraisal of our system on this basis reveals serious deficiencies.
7.    Shortcomings can also be found with regards to: (i) teaching and research personnel; (ii)
teaching and research materials (books, laboratory equipment, scientific journals, etc.); (iii)
communications; and (iv) an evaluation system providing teachers and administrators with
information regarding student learning achievement.
8.    In terms of inputs, for example, 31 years after the creation of the higher education and
research system, the country has an almost completely Guinean cadre of teaching personnel, and
has succeeded in raising the average student-teacher ratio to a satisfactory level. However, from
the perspective of working conditions, or contributions to the local and international development
of science, much remains to be done. Highly qualified professors are few in number, and there are
very few productive researchers. Those who do exist, are not well distributed across the various
institutions and programs. Similarly, the ongoing deterioration of the physical infrastructure has
reached an advanced stage in all institutions, and the lack of pedagogical materials is pervasive.
9.    In order to better manage the system, a process to evaluate its internal and external
infrastructure is indispensable. To this end, viable information regarding the activities of the
institutions is needed so that the authorities have the ability, for example, of monitoring the
evolution of achievement of priorities, evaluating existing programs, improving management, and
determining future resource needs. Some of this information is currently unavailable or, at least,
hard to access.
10.   Financial constraints and unit costs. The financial constraints to improved efficiency
can be found at four main levels: (i) the reliance on a sole source of financing (the state and its
external partners); (ii) general underfunding; (iii) the skewed allocation of funds in the training and
research budgets; and (iv) inefficient management (the lethargic process of disbursement, for
example) of the minimal resources available.



52
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
11.   As a corollary of budget allocations, the high unit costs of higher education and research
should not be seen solely in terms of their absolute value. Their breakdown on the basis of
salaries, infrastructure, equipment, social transfers, and other teaching and research inputs, reveals
additional problems to be addressed.
12.   Social demand for higher education. In spite of the problems indicated above, the
demographic pressure from primary and secondary schooling, and the personal advantages
inherent in the possession of a university diploma, mean that the demand for university training
will continue to grow. If the current tendency is maintained, enrollments in higher education will
easily surpass the threshold of 10,000 students by the year 2000.  This will have harmful
consequences for the sector since projected economic growth will not be sufficient to finance the
additional needs and maintain the system even at its current low level. Consequently, the
government has decided to implement an ambitious new strategy seen as absolutely essential for
the sector's future development.
13.   Development strategy. All investments in research and higher education in Guinea must
be for the purpose of contributing to the economic and social development of the country. This
implies the need to prepare a range of strategic objectives that can provide a basis for fundamental
changes in policy and in organizational structure. Such a vision will encompass short-, medium-,
and long-term needs.
14.   Short-term objectives will be premised on creation of a consensus in order to achieve
acceptance of the profound changes needed in structure, in management, and in the relevance of
training and research programs. In particular, teachers and students will be invited to participate
in serious debate over the future of the sector, with a transparent examination of programs,
structures, and budgets.
15.   Medium- and long-term objectives will be oriented toward the strengthening of the
operational autonomy of the institutions. In pursuing these objectives, the future system of higher
education and research will need to differ significantly from the present system in several basic
aspects. First, it will need to be flexible enough to respond to changing demand. In the short
term, for training purposes, this implies controlling student flows and strengthening the idea of
cost sharing. Second, the system will need to ensure that available financing is well used,
including a rationalization of use of teaching and research personnel.
16.   These efforts will need to be pursued with the goal of maintaining a consensus among all
interested parties:  students, parents, teaching staff, researchers, potential employers, and
government.  The approach will need to be essentially participative, including a better
understanding on all sides of the concept of institutional autonomy.



53
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
17.   Institutional autonomy. The best way to rebuild higher education and research is to do
it from within the institutions themselves, through a gradual process. In the short term, greater
institutional autonomy will require that the state rethink its role. The state will ensure that the
following objectives are attained: (i) transparency in managing change policies; (ii) a search for
additional sources of financing; (iii) contribution to the preparation, implementation and
monitoring of institutional budget processes; (iv) allocation of resources granting priority to
inputs linked to improvements in quality; (v) social equity within the institutions; (vi) donor
coordination; and (vii) coordination between higher education and the Ministries of Finance, Plan,
and Administrative Reform.
18.   The government has already implemented this year a system of competitive entrance
examinations in order to limit the inflow of students. This means that the end of secondary
schooling does not necessarily lead to access to higher education. In addition, the government
will progressively put into place over the next three years a system of autonomous financial
management, by which the institutions will assume the responsibility for developing and justifying
their own budgets and the use of scholarship funds. The role of the government will be limited to
defining the criteria for allocation of funds and evaluating the results. It is expected that this
measure will encourage the institutions to maintain enrollments at more manageable levels, and
that the proportion of budgets allocated to improvements in quality will be considerably increased.
19.   Open university.  Several approaches are under consideration for reducing the cost
burden of the state by increasing the efficiency with which teachers are used. Almost all of these
approaches presume a much more open and flexible relationship between higher education and its
potential clientele: (i) the development of private higher education will be encouraged; (ii) the new
institutions of higher education will maintain open doors, from the perspective of the programs
offered, the type of student enrolled (full time or part time), and the period during which
individuals wishing to study are allowed to do so. This new approach will help reduce the
bottleneck created by entrance into university immediately following secondary schooling and will
lead to financial contributions by individuals and businesses; (iii) the teaching loads of professors
will be revised as a function (among others) of their administrative responsibilities and their real
research programs; payment for overtime will be strictly limited to professors participating in
activities generating additional resources for the university; and (iv) restaurant services, already
privatized, will be more open to competition in order to save funds which will be reinvested in
qualitative improvements. It goes without saying that an immediate and radical improvement in
communication within the sector is the sine qua non of all of these approaches and indeed, of any
approach aiming to improve the quality and relevance of the sector.
20.   Political and social marketing of the reform. Higher education is a very politically
sensitive arena. It offers a number of concrete advantages to a wide variety of groups and
individuals. Any change in the distribution of these advantages will be poorly received by those
who consider themselves to be losers, and naturally, well received by those who benefit. It is
important, well before any changes are made, to identify the probable reactions of these groups



54
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
(students, parents, teachers, government officials) and to address their concerns. This will require
a plan for social and political marketing to explain the advantages of the changes and to create a
constituency which is supportive of them. This plan is a part of the participative approach
planned in the context of reforms to be put in place. In this context, it is also important to be able
to show students and professors concrete actions to improve their working conditions (at the
level, for instance, of the library, of science laboratories, of textbook availability, of means of
communication, of computers, etc.)
21.   Summary and conclusions.  In summary, then, the government's strategy for higher
education and research consists of immediately putting in place a process of change involving all
of the stakeholders in the system. This process will aim not only to achieve a change in role for
the institutions (management autonomy, reorientation of programs as a function of market needs)
and of the ministry (establishment of norms, evaluation and control of quality), but also a change
in behavior at all levels in order to ensure quality, transparency, and efficiency. The process will
be accompanied by a strong accent on the practical training of personnel in new approaches to
management, administration, collection and use of data, organization, etc.
22.   Improvements in efficiency. Improvements in efficiency over the short and medium
terms will include the following: (i) cost recovery, (ii) more efficient use of teaching staff, (iii) a
transparent system of financial management, (iv) progressive implementation of block grants to
institutions, (v) privatization of cafeteria services, (vi) more flexible working hours and conditions
(open university concept), (vii) encouragement of private higher education, and (viii)
collaboration with other institutions of higher education in the region.
23.   Improvements in quality. Improvements in quality over the short and medium terms will
include the following activities: (i) implementation of a better system of communication, (ii)
redistribution of budget resources in favor of pedagogic inputs, (iii) competitive entrance
examination to limit student enrollments, and (iv) new role of quality control for the ministry.
24.   Improvements in relevance.  Improvements in the relevance of higher education
presuppose the implementation of new programs and courses, and the cancellation of programs
and courses not linked to market needs. This aspect will take into consideration the country's
global development strategy. Among others, for example, new courses or programs could be
developed to train personnel for decentralized administration, to strengthen the country's
communications capacity, to reinforce computerization and transparent management of services
(public and private), and to create new competencies within the pre-university education system
(training of school directors, support for training handicapped or gifted students, etc.).
25.   In the long term, following a process of upgrading capacity and developing consensus, the
government will look for external support to complement internal resources in order to
rehabilitate existing infrastructure, acquire equipment, and develop a true university library. It is
understood in this process that the priority of the government in favor of basic education will be
maintained, indeed, reinforced, by the approach planned for improving the functioning of higher
education. The improvement of higher education should at the same time have a positive impact
on quality at all levels of education as well as on the economic development of the country.



55
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
26.   The following performance indicators translate the Government's policy into operational
terms for the four year span of the PADES:
(a)   higher education's percentage of the education budget, which was between 25%
and 30% prior to the PASE, will be kept in the range of 17% to 20% over the next four years;
(b)   non-salary operating expenditures will be increased to 25% of the operating
budget for higher education and research by 1999;
(c)   cost recovery and user fees will constitute between 5% and 10% of budget
revenues by 1999;
(d)   Required teachers hours will be as follows: 12 hours for assistant professors and
instructors and 10 hours for associate professors and professors, with one hour of classroom
teaching considered equivalent to two hours of laboratory supervision and one-and-a-half hours of
small group mentoring;
(e)   student enrollment will be maintained between 8500 and 9000 over the next four
years;
(f)   an annual budget of US$100,000 will be devoted to developing a competitive
research grant program based on development needs;
(g)   the cost of social transfers in the overall budget will be reduced by 5% annually.



56
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
SELECTED ACTIVITIES INSTITUTIoNAL REORGANIZATION COMPONENT
(listed by working group) I
1.     The following summary descriptions are based on detailed proposals and terms of
reference reviewed during the appraisal mission. The full documentation for these studies is
maintained in project files and is available upon request. For proposals covering more than one
year, only the first year's activities have been appraised. A complete list of project activities is
provided in Annex 1. These are subject to annual approval by the Steering Committee, the
Interministerial Committee and IDA on the basis of terms of reference, budgets, and an
implementation calendar.
University of Conakry
2.     Competitive research grants.  This initiative will be carried out jointly with the
University of Kankan. The intent is to re-establish the management of research activities as a
legitimate function within the university context. Grants averaging $1000 to $2000 will be
awarded to University-based researchers on a competitive basis, using criteria developed for this
purpose. Additional sources of funding, including fee-generating activities within the Universities,
will be sought at the time of the mid-term project review.
3.     Measurement of student achievement. The goal of this initiative is to develop a method
for evaluating student learning in a way that provides a reliable basis for comparison on an annual
basis. It is anticipated that feedback received will be used to alter individual course content,
teaching methodology or the broad program of studies. This will be a pilot study of student
learning outcomes conducted by the Faculty of Sciences. Technical assistance will be sought
from two sources: (i) a dean or a qualified professor from a College or Faculty of Sciences in a
developed country will conduct an external evaluation of the curriculum as taught at the
University of Conakry and together with an evaluation expert will help develop an evaluation
process for monitoring student learning outcomes, and (ii) a series of visits will be undertaken to
Faculties of Science in other African universities (English-speaking and French-speaking). A
visiting scholar will be invited from one of these institutions for a two-month period in each of the
last two years of the project to provide input into the evaluation process.
This list of studies deals only with activities planned under the Institutional Reorganization component. As such, it
does not include the training of institutional personnel in financial management and budgetary planning, the
development of viable communication systems, or the establishment of statistical data-gathering capacity at the
institutional level, all of which is being done through other project components.



57
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
4.    Fit between employment/training. Four internal task forces have been designated at the
Polytechnic Institute to develop needs assessments in the following areas: (i) engineering training,
(ii) technicians' training, (iii) support of income-generating activities, and (iv) administrative
streamlining. Each unit will start its activities with an evaluation of the current situation, for
example, with a study which will assess the quantitative and qualitative needs for engineers. The
Terms of Reference already developed by the first two task forces include a tracer study of former
graduates to determine whether the training received has proven relevant to their current
employment. Based on the ongoing recommendations of these task forces, the Polytechnic
Institute of Conakry will propose in-depth studies for the second and third years of the project.
5.    Open University-fee-generating activities. The Faculty of Business and Management
will take the lead in establishing pilot programs to develop greater financial self-sufficiency. It
will, among other activities, develop night school and alternative education programs. During
project preparation, it has already moved to establish a consultancy unit with a fee scale derived
from the Guinean salary environment that will permit Government agencies to compete with
international agencies for competent research personnel, while providing a source of income for
the faculty and a source of professional development for individual faculty members. The
proposed consultancy group will negotiate standard fee-sharing arrangements with the University,
as well as a professional code of ethics for University professor/consultants, with clear description
of the rights and responsibilities of both the professor/consultant, the University, and students.
6.    Reorganization of student services management.  The first year's activities will be
organized around a comparative study carried out by a national team. It will deal with a wide
range of issues relating to student services, including boarding facilities, transportation, and local
scholarships. The team will include student representation. The team will survey student services
at the two major universities in Guinea. It will travel to a range of institutions in different
countries within and outside of the region. It will prepare a comparative report of student
services offered in the countries surveyed, demonstrating similarities or differences with the
Guinean experience and analyzing these differences. Recommendations from this study will be
geared to identifying for more focused follow-up work in the last two years of the project.
University of Kankan
7.    Tracer study fit between training and employment.  A tracer study of recent
University graduates will be conducted to determine the relevance of training received at the
University. This study will seek to determine the impact of the schooling received in particular on
employment opportunities in the rural areas as opposed to Conakry.



58
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
8.    Competitive research grants.  This initiative will be carried out jointly with the
University of Conakry. The intent is to re-establish the management of research activities as a
legitimate function within the university context. Grants averaging $1000 to $2000 will be
awarded to University-based researchers on a competitive basis, using criteria developed for this
purpose. Additional sources of funding, including fee-generating activities within the Universities,
will be sought at the time of the mid-term project review.
9.    Reorganization of student services. This study will be carried out jointly with the
University of Conakry (see above). Carried out by a national team, it will deal with the full range
of issues relating to student services, including boarding facilities, transportation, and local
scholarships. It will look at particular problems related to the isolation and relatively poor state of
facilities at the University of Kankan.
Mining and Geology Institute of Boke
10.   Tracer study of graduates.  In order to determine the external efficiency of the
specialized programs offered at Boke, a tracer study of recent graduates will be conducted. This
study will analyze the type of employment obtained, employer evaluations as to the
appropriateness of training received, and the average length of time spent seeking employment.
This study will be paired with a program evaluation (see [b]) and a study of linkages with the
Institut Polytechnique (see [c]) to help determine the most appropriate approach for future
training in the mining sector.
11.   Restructuring/privatization/program  evaluation.  The potential for greater private
sector involvement in the training activities currently organized by the Institute of Boke will be
explored through external evaluation.
12.   Linkages with the Polytechnical Institute. This study will look at the potential for
greater institutional collaboration for the engineering programs at the two institutions.
Teacher Training Institute of Guinea
13.   Decentralized management-modules, contract teachers. The Teacher Training Institute
has in recent years become a de facto provider of short-term tailor-made training programs, often
in support of the ongoing need for retraining personnel within the civil service. However, the
Institution's management structure has not kept pace with these new needs. This activity will
help create the management capacity for developing short-term modules and training packages on
a low-cost contract basis. It will be complemented by pedagogic support for the creation of
special needs courses (see [b]).
14.   Creation of special needs courses (principals, GT, LD, ag.). The Ministry for Pre-
University Education and Vocational Training (MEPUFP) has increasingly expressed a need for
courses in a range of areas: elementary school instructional leadership, gifted and talented pupils,
learning disabled students or students with other disabilities, as well as such one-time needs as



59
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
retraining for former agriculture extension agents, etc. This activity will provide the technical
assistance and other support necessary for development of these courses.
Agriculture and Veterinary Institute of Faranah (ISAV)
15.   Program evaluation. The purpose of the study is to develop and apply test instruments for
the four departments or faculties within the institution: agriculture, water and forestry, livestock
raising, and rural engineering. Results will be used to analyze the appropriateness of course
offerings for current needs within the country. This activity will be carried out in collaboration
with the Ministry of Agriculture.
16.   Development of fee-generating activities. An agricultural marketing consultant will be
asked to evaluate the potential transformation of two existing programs into fee-generating
activities for the Institute:  a seed dissemination initiative and a program  of agricultural
innovations.
CERESCOR (Conakry-Rogbane Oceanographic Research Center)
17.   Evaluation of scientific and administrative management. From the time of its creation,
activities at CERESCOR were carried out in the framework of collaboration between Guinea and
the former Soviet Union. Since the end of Soviet support, the institution has declared its desire to
become autonomous, i.e. responsible for its own management and financing. The unit from the
marine biology research center has conducted considerable research on issues such as coastal
pollution, etc. However, its publication record to date is dismal, considerable hampering its
capacity to develop its reputation and develop outside sources of income. It has no rigorous
procedures for internal evaluation of its scientific management or for peer review. Similarly, its
internal publications are not subject to refereeing. This activity will link an external evaluation of
scientific and administrative management to the provision of in-service training of personnel. This
process will culminate in a two-week seminar for all research staff.
IRBAG
18.   Evaluation of cost generation potential. The administrative and financial autonomy of
IRBAG requires that the institution develop the capacity to offer its services and products in a
competitive market. External consult support will be sought to determine the potential for
generating resources through such existing programs as production of snake venom, production
of plant-based drugs, vaccinations, laboratory animals, ecotourism, etc.
Directorate for Higher Education
19.   Establishment of accreditation procedures. The directorate of higher education will
develop guidelines for assuming a new role of quality control. This activity will take place over



60
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
the four-year project lifespan. During the first year, two forms of technical assistance are
envisaged: (i) the services of a regional accreditation agency or its equivalent (from the United
States or Europe) will be secured in order to develop initial accreditation protocols. These
protocols will include provisions for institutional self-evaluation and external inspection according
to criteria to be established; (ii) a national team will be trained to test draft protocols with selected
faculties. While this team may ultimately evolve into the role of an independent accrediting
agency, it will work initially under the aegis of the Directorate for Higher Education. Over the
next two years of the project, all existing institutions will be evaluated (including a self-
evaluation). By the fourth year, it is expected that the quality control function will be a routine
feature of MESRSC activity and responsibilities.
20.   Development of competitive funding criteria. The recent experience of the polytechnic
institutions in Britain will be used as a model for developing competitive funding criteria.
Guidelines to be established will include teacher quality, program cost, program relevance,
student outcomes and overall efficiency. A national team will meet with representatives of the
various institutions to determine what needs ought to be served and which should receive a lower
priority in the allocation of resources. These studies will inform the steering committee which will
eventually decide on the recommendations.
Directorate for Scientific Research
21.   Establishment of a national research council.  (i) the  Directorate for Scientific
Research proposes to establish in fact what currently exists on paper only-a national research
council. This group will visit research councils and foundations in other countries and become
acquainted with approaches to R&D policy-making. It will also receive training to help it acquire
the managerial capacity necessary for coordination and evaluation. It will be funded by but
operate independently of the directorate of national research; (ii) the directorate of national
research proposes to develop a computerized data base that will inventory research activities in
Guinea. The inventory of research projects will make it possible to bring far more coherence in
the organization of various laboratories and activities than is presently the case, allowing scarce
resources to be used more efficiently. Personnel will become acquainted with international
resources potentially available to Guinean researchers. The directorate will become a resource for
researchers and a clearinghouse for information.



61
Annex 8
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
OPERATING BUDGETS 1994-1995
(Millions of Guinean Francs)
1992    1993    1994                              1995
Ministry Conakry Kankan  ISSEG   ISAV   Boke   Total
Salaries       7062.5   7470    8203    1737   690.6   131.5    60.2    42.6    58.1   2720
Travel            288   508.5   111.5        90     24.5    20.2     8.7    18.9      9.4   171.7
Equipment         552      769   180.5      111    125.5   115.8    30.8    71.3    35.6    490
Consumables    2906.5  3132.5   950.5   331.6       208   213.2    30.8    64.7    46.5   894.8
Vehicles          239   309.5       67     86.5   110.1   119.8    61.4    49.8    10.2   437.8
Utilities           --      --       0       65      171    14.4    36.6    20.7    13.1   320.8
Maintenance       135   125.5       20       35      49    15.2    15.5    10.4    12.4   137.5
Service fees       75     646       16       20    888.9   746.6    80.4   130.3    73.3  1939.5
Miscellaneous.     77      109    19.5       35    109.7    37.1     5.7    30.2    31.6   249.3
Scholarships     2390    2250      750      750    2164      576   132.1   147.6   126.2  3895.9
TOTAL           13725   15320   10318   3261.1  4541.3  1989.8   462.2   586.5   416.4 11257.3
*Note: Prior to 1995, service fees and most scholarship costs were aggregated under the category: salaries/benefits.



62
Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
HIGHER EDUCKrION ENROLLMENT BY INSTITUTION
Institutions   1991-92  1992-93  1993-94
Kankan          1397     1226     1157
Conakry        4007               5905
Faranah          161               254
Boke             663               242
ISSEG            386               546
(Maneah)
TOTAL          6612      7189     8104



63
Annex 10
Page 1 of2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL: TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 1: THE PROJECT
1. 1.       Project framework
1.2.        Objectives
1.3.        Description
1.4.        Estimated cost by component and category
1.5.        Financing plan
1.6.        Implementation calendar
1.7.        Credit Agreement conditionalities
SECTION 2 : IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
2.1.        Project coordination, monitoring, and implementation
2.2.        Institutional reorganization
2.3.        Research grants
2.4.        Training
2.5.         Operational activities
SECTION 3 : PROCUREMENT
3.1.        Calendar for procurement of goods and services
3.2.        Applicable procurement procedures
3.3.        Reporting requirements
SECTION 4.: DISBURSEMENTS
4.1.        Disbursement category and reallocation of funds
4.2.         Credit account
4.3.         Special account
4.4.        Project account



64
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
SECTION 5: ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
5.1.         Accounting and budget system
5.2.         Terms of reference and audit schedule
SECTION 6: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.1         Implementation monitoring
6.2.         Mid-term Review
6 3.         Supervision Plan (IDA)
6.4.         Implementation Completion Report
ANNEXES
Annex  1: Standard ICB Documents for equipment
Annex 2: Standard ICB Documents for equipment
Annex 3 : Sample Letter of Invitation for consultant servic
Annex 4: Disbursement Letter
Annex 5: Bank guidelines for contracts and bids



Annex 11
Page I of I
STArTUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATnONS IN GUINEA
Summary Statements of Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1995)
LOAN OR CREDIT NO. 1                                                                                      AMOUNT IN USS MILLION
..           .                       .                      - (LESS CANCELLATION)
CREDITS                 FISCAL          BORROWER                   PURPOSE                 BANK       IDA      UNDIS-       CLOSING
YEAR                                                                                 BURSE           DATE
D
29 CREDITS CLOSED                                                                                           468.37
C17250-GN                  1987                GUINEA          LIVESTOCK SECTOR REH.                          9.80        1.48   12/31/95(R)
C19150-GN                  1988                GUINEA          HIGHWAYS IV                                   55.00      10.95   12/31/95(R)
C 19550-GN                 1989                GUINEA          RESEARCH EXT.                                 18.40         .37   12/31/95(R)
C19850-GN                  1989                GUINEA          WATER II                                      40.00       8.32   10/31/96
C19950-GN                  1989                GUINEA          SDA                                            9.00        1.39   12/31/95(R)
C20680-GN                  1990                GUINEA          FORESTRY  FISHERY M.                           8.00        1.23   06/30/95(R)
C21060-GN                  1990                GUINEA          NAT.RURAL INFRAST.                            40.00       10.43   12/31/95
C21120-GN                  1990                GUINEA          SECOND URBAN                                  57.00      37.70   12/31/95
C23980-GN                  1992                GUINEA          P.E. REFORM                                    7.30       4.80   12/31/95
C24070-GN                  1993                GUINEA          AGRI.EXPORT PROM.                             20.80      17.64   12/31/99
C24160-GN                  1993                GUINEA          POWER If                                      50.00      36.14   12/31/97
C24440-GN                  1993                GUINEA          TELECOMMUNICATIONS                            14.60       6.17   12/31/95
C25740-GN                  1994                GUINEA          HEALTH-NUT-SCTR.                              24.60      24.75   06/30/01
C26530-GN(S)               1995                GUINEA          FINANCIAL SECTOR                              23.00       14.05   03/31/97
* C27190-GN               1995                 GUINEA          EQUITY & SCHOOL IMPROV.                       42.50      44.49   06/30/01
TOTAL No. of Credits
= 15
420.00    217.91
Loans
3 Loans Closed
All closed for GUINEA                                                                              73.50
TOTAL No. of Loan=0       TOTAL***                                                                 73.50   917.01
of which  repaid                                                       73.50      8.95
TOTAL held by                                                              .00   908.12
Bank & IDA
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                                                      219 12
CAOI10-GN                  1986                GUINEA          SAL I                                         17.00         .00   12/31/1988(R)I
C16590-GN                  1986                GUINEA          SAL I                                         25.00         .00   2/31/1988(R)
C19260-GN                  1988                GUINEA          SAL 11                                        65.00         .00   12/31/1993(R)
C21550-GN                  1990                GUINEA          EDC.SEC.A.PROGRAM                             20.00         .00   06/30/1994(R)
C21480-GN                  1990                GUINEA          PRrV.SECT.PROMO.                              50.00         .00   12/31/1992(R)
C19261-GN                  1993                GUINEA          SAL 11                                          .10         .00   05/07/1994
TOTAL GUINEA                                                                                                177.10         .00
Note:
* Not yet effective
# Not yet signed
*$* Total approved, repayments. and outstanding balance represent both acive and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) Indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The net approved and Bank repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing Dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not taken from the Task Budget file.



66
Annex 12
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Evaluation des propositions soumises au PADES. Maurice Garnier. Decembre 1994.
Computerized budget planning and accounting in Guinean higher education. Mission Report.
R. Vyhmeister. November, 1994.
Project de cadre de developpement du secteur de 1'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique. Octobre 1994.
Les technologies de l'information et de la communication au Ministere de I'Enseignement
Superieur en Guinee. Telemediatique. Aofut 1994.
Rapports initiaux des institutions. PADES. Juin 1994.
Higher education and scientific research in Guinea: A sector note (Enseignement Superieur et
Recherche en Guinee--Etude Sectorielle). Report No. 12009-GUI, World Bank. August
1993.
Conception des termes de reference de l'etude sur l'enseignement superieur en Guinee.
Ministere francais de la Cooperation et du Developpement. Mars 1993.
Les grandes orientations de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche scientifique.
Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique. 1993.
On research in Mathematics within the Guinean universities. Mamadou Bah. 1993.
Etudes specifiques pour la poursuite de la rationalisation et la consolidation de 1'enseignement
superieur. Banire Diallo. Mai 1992.
Financement et autonomie de l'Universite Gamal Abdel Nasser de Conakry. Alexandre
Richard. 1992.
Journees de concertation des cadres de 1'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique. Ministere de I'Education Nationale. Janvier 1990.
Orientations generales d'un plan de redressement des secteurs de l'enseignement superieur et
de la recherche scientifique. Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Octobre 1986.



67
Annex 13
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(net of taxes and duties, in US$ million equivalent)
:FPROJECT                      DISBURSEMENT                             DISBU RSEMENT:.....
.............YEAR:   SEMESTER.  INSEMESTER   CUMULATIVE    %0 OFTOTAL                          PROFILE
(effectiveness)
1              1                  0.2                  0.2                 3%                0%
2                 0.8                  1.1                 17%               10%
2              3                  1.3                  2.4                36%               14%
4                  1.0                  3.4                52%              22%
3              5                  0.7                  4.1                62%               34%
6                 0.7                  4.8                 73%              42%
4              7                  0.6                  5.4                82%               54%
8                 0.6                  6.0                 91 %             66%
5              9                  0.4                  6.4                97%               74%
6         ~~10                0.2                  6.6                100%              82%
7              13                                                                           986%
8              15                                                                           100%
1/ Overall disbursement profile for Guinea



I4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~     ~            I2                                                     110              GUNE-
SENEGALGUINEA
-------------- F_To Kedougou                                                      c  HIGHER EDUCATION  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
To Xi,nie              ouar
G U I N E A                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nyagossolo,
~~~I~~~AII  'N       '~~~~~~~~~~~~               .~~Mal,                                 >-                                 ~         ~         T Bamoko
0'  -  -                                                              ~~~~~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Didi0 
K oubia 
7/                                       <<                    0~~~~~~~~~                                           ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ttasgue  D"  to-,y
iLab6                            OFKmlgo ro,                                          uFur
Kamsor&,                                                              b*       ~         ;    ' -                                                               lo'
,  andon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Kar)ian                                                                                     "
Boffi.                                                                                                                                                                                          f
Fo 0                              ;,TFS PAVEF .'
ALL WEAI HEr,    r
Li2-40   6t SC  100  120               Berfly0                                  EFRA,I'i' 0
14~~~~~                                        T
-   MAFJFF r~~~~,TFiA       '1 ~~~                       AERF')PF ART INT' '"     'F L
4E l)'i`0mSo                                               e >'  7      "reL,tF
I           *            F ~~~~~.,Al CAP"''T,T 'r'<r  
'H                           F~~~~~                                       ~~    ~ ~~~~L I  Q  ',  -5FFNF '.
GAMINA                                                                               ALLF  _QP  i                                                                    '- R
II                                       [F PF'F[FEIOEFFE F-,CUd F [~ 
A Ti A N [F                      I                                              .h<.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I T_   ~ GIN',JF
' Cona'kryI'F SF W;,OOFF'E
o                         '"''0' CV 0  F I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'F'IF                                      'F~~~~~~
SIERRA                                    r"''FQ I                                                                                 __E












