Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 24374
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27870; PPFI-P8301; PPFI-P8302; PPFI-P8300)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
06/27/02
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 3, 2001)
Currency Unit = Guinea Franc
GNF1 = US$ 0.001 (appraisal)
US$ I = GNF1737 (2000)
US$1.00 = GNF1917 (2001)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNIVERSITY YEAR
October - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager/Director:  Alexandre Abrantes
Task Team Leader:    Meskerem Mulatu



GUINEA
HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPfORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2-4
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5-9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             9-10
6. Sustainability                                                                   11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information                                                          15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               27






Project ID: P001090                                     Project Name: HIGHER EDUCATION MAN
Team Leader: Linda K. English                            TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHER EDUCATION MAN                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-27870;
PPFI-P8301;
PPFI-P8302;
PPFI-P8300
Country/Department: GUINEA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: ET - Tertiary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/15/93                               Effective: 03/31/96           10/25/96
Appraisal:  03/29/94                                 MTR: 11/30/97             06/19/99
Approval:  11/28/95                               Closing: 06/30/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                          Jean-Louis Sarbib and Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:     Mamadou Dia                               Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                     Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:  Meskerem Mulatu                           Robert S. Prouty
ICR Primary Author:  Richard R. Hopper; Cherif
Diallo; Rosemary M. Cubagee
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of Guinean Higher Education Management Support Project (PADES) was to provide
support for a new policy framework andfor the development of institutional capacity to help the
Government reconfigure and streamline higher education and research in Guinea providing specifically
for (i) greater institutional autonomy, (ii) improved cost effectiveness; and (iii) increased relevance for
economic development. The initial plan set out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) called for front
loading the reform components largely in the first two years, followed by more explicit capacity-building
components in the last two years. Moreover, the objectives were in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) of 1994, which called for higher education reform, "in light of severe shortcomings in the
adequacy of higher education training vis-a-vis economic development needs and high unit costs." In
addition, the project appraisal translated many objectives in the Government's 1994 Policy Statement for
Higher Education and Research into concrete actions to meet this objective.
The project objective was clear and focused on a limited number of institutions within a discrete sub-sector
of education, thereby making it a rather reasonable goal. At the time of Appraisal, in spite of the project's
emphasis on policy reforms dependent on government initiative and institutional cooperation in an
environment of poor ministerial and institutional capacity, it was determined that the risk of failure to
achieve the main objectives of the project was low.
PADES was the fifth IDA-financed education project in Guinea and immediately followed the Guinea
Education Sector Adjustment Project (PASE) which had focused on pre-university education.
Context
From 1986 onward, Guinea began transitioning from a command to a market economy, requiring a
stronger human resource base with greater capacity to support the growing commercial sector and to make
the reduced civil service more efficient By 1993, when project preparation began, Guinea had a
population of approximately 6.2 million, half of which was estimated to be below the age of 14. At that
time, the adult illiteracy rate was 76%, the primary enrollment rate was 43%, the secondary rate 19% and
the tertiary rate just I%. Demographic projections showed that Guinea was likely to develop strong
demand pressures at the secondary and tertiary levels. Indeed, by 2001 the population rose to 7.2 million
and enrollment rates at the primary and secondary levels also rose, thereby increasing the number of
qualified aspirants for higher education.
The rationale for the PADES was supported by sector work on higher education conducted by the World
Bank in 19932 This study showed higher education in Guinea suffered not only from woefully poor
physical infrastructure, but also from an erratic policy history and a severe lack of relevance, quality,
efficiency and equity. What is more, tertiary education represented more than one quarter of the overall
public expenditure on education, yet both the central and institutional financial systems were in such a poor
state that the government was unable to properly track funds or produce important financial and other
indicators. Therefore, it was felt that increased management capacity would help the Government make
strategic decisions to improve the performance of the sub-sector. Experience during the 1990-94 PASE in
Guinea further highlighted deep concems with the capacity of governance at both the ministerial and
institutional levels. It was understood that Guinea's higher education sector was overly centralized and
ill-prepared to innovate in ways necessary to ensure more rational public spending on education in general,
and in order to upgrade the quality of outputs and skills necessary to enhance the country's human capital
base.
-2 -



During the preparation phase of PADES, the country's higher education system enrolled 8,100 students at
five institutions: the universities of Conakry and Kankan, and three specialized institutes for teaching
(Maneah), agriculture (Faranah), and mining (Boke). These institutions, plus the
Oceanographic-Engineering Research Center of Conakry-Rogbane (CERESCOR) and the Guinean
Institute for Research and Applied Biology (IRBAG), are overseen by the Ministry of Higher Education
and Scientific Research and Culture (MESRSC). The MESRSC has three major internal divisions: the
National Directorate of Higher Education (DNES), the National Directorate of Scientific and
Technological Research (DNRST), and the National Directorate of Statistics and Planning (DNSP).
Lower levels of education, however, are under the purview of a second education ministry called the
Ministry of Pre-University Education and Professional Training (MEPUFP).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The PADES objective - to provide support for a new policy framework and institutional capacity -
remained unchanged throughout the project.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the original objective, the project set out three major components: (a) institutional
reorganization; (b) information and communication system installation; and (c) budgetary programming
and monitoring enhancement. More specifically, these were:
I. reorganization of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research and Culture (MESRSC),
the National Directorate of Scientific and Technological Research (DNRST) and the country's five
institutions of higher education based on identified need and resource availability ($3.6 million);
2. establishment of a viable information and communications system at both the Ministry and institutional
levels ($2.0 million); .
3. increase in the financial and budget management capacity through improved budgetary programming
and monitoring at the Ministry and institutional levels ($1.1 million).
The design of these components was informed by lessons learned during the earlier PASE project,
recognizing the need to build both central and institutional capacity simultaneously. The components were
directly related to the overall objective of supporting policy reforns and reconfiguring higher education
management. As this was the first higher education project in Guinea and in sub-Saharan Africa, the scale
of the project was deliberately intended to be quite modest, and clearly considered as a necessary furst step
toward greater reforms and greater capacity building in the future. The small scale of the project was also
considered to be manageable for an implementing agency with little or no direct experience in project
management. There was a tendency on the part of the Bank to emphasize the reform operations of
Components I and 3 (reorganization and budgeting) to enhance capacity before the investment operations
of Component 2 (establishing a communications network).
3.4 Revised Conmponents:
The three principle components of PADES remained the same throughout the project, though the emphasis
on components was adjusted to meet programmatic shifts and financial needs in agreement with the
Government as reflected in the Aide-Memoires filed after the project Mid-Term Review (MTR) in May
1999 (and as clearly diagrammed in Annex 8: Contribution from the Borrower.) There was no official
restructuring of the project and no amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) or the PA. It
was recognized by both the Borrower and IDA, however, that: (a) the communications component would
- 3 -



be slightly more expensive than anticipated, offsetting savings from less expensive components upon the
reorganization of the component balance, and (b) it was important to begin the communications component
sooner rather than later if it was to be completed by the extended closing date of December 31, 200 1'.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There were no Quality at Entry criteria available during project preparation, but as stated in Section 3. 1,
the project objective was clearly aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time of
appraisal; moreover, the sector knowledge underpinning the project was based on sound ESW conducted
during the project identification phase and on experience from the earlier sector adjustment credit (PASE).
The objective of the project was realistic, yet sufficiently demanding given the level of capacity in place.
Alternative scenarios were analyzed and stakeholder participation was embedded in several aspects of
project components and sub-components. There was some consideration for gender equity and poverty
targets, but these were not the major thrusts of the project. The financing plan seemed to slightly
overestimate the costs of technical assistance on reforms, while underestimating the cost of installing a
modem telephone and communications system in several institutions. (This was bome out during project
implementation and adjustments were made after the project Mid-Term Review.) Moreover, while the text
of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) emphasized "frontloading" of reform activities, the detailed financial
estimates for "key project activities" as outline in Annex 2-A of the SAR seem to contradict this statement
by showing a greater frontloading of activities than the narrative would indicate.
Preliminary financial management capacity for the project was in place through Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) activities, and there was some experience with prior structures and systems available from
PASE. During project preparation, while Bank staff appeared to understand the institutional framework in
Guinea, they also seemed adequately aware of the country's shortcomings and lack of capacity - hence the
emphasis on capacity building in the project objectives and components. Some key performance indicators
were identified, but many of them (particularly financial indicators) had to be developed in the course of the
project This was only possible as financial and managerial capacity was developed and key measures of
performance could be more accurately calculated through modem accounting and budgeting systems being
installed within the MESRSC and individual institutions. Monitoring and evaluation was well considered
in the appraisal, with strong foresight emphasizing not only regular supervision, but also the pivotal role of
the Mid-Term Review. The elapsed time from Identification to Appraisal to Board Review was within
standard limits, but the extended time between Board Approval of PADES and its Effectiveness was eight
months -- twice the service standard time limit of the World Bank. The extra time, requested by the
Borrower, was largely due to a change in the post of Minister of Higher Education and the apparent
inexperience of the MESRSC in preparing and executing projects with donor agencies, resulting in a lack
of timely compliance with requirements necessary for effectiveness.
IPADES: Projet d'Appui au Developpement de l 'Enseignement Superieure
Higher Education and Scientific Research in Guinea: A Sector Note. Report No. 12000-GUI, World Bank,
August 1993.
Guinea's former Ministry of Education was split into two distinct ministries in 1992 (MESRSC and MEPUFP)
during the implementation of PASE, requiring the project to focus reforms on the pre-university sub-sector at
that time. The Ministries were subsequently re-merged and split several times in the 1990s.
4World Bank Report No. 14895-GUI. November 6, 1995.
Original closing date was set for June 30, 2000.
- 4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall objective of PADES was achieved to a satisfactory level. The project accomplished most of its
major relevant goals. There is a new policy framework in place with a high level of stakeholder awareness
and acceptance garnered through both national consultations and institutional strategic-planning exercises.
Moreover, management capacity of both the Ministry and the individual higher education institutions in
Guinea has been broadly enhanced. Institutional autonomy is far greater than before the project began, as
evidenced by the newly independent fiscal management and governance of universities and research
institutions. The MESRSC has assumed a more appropriate supervisory role as institutions have been
given greater control of their finances with an enhanced ability to operate complex, modem (computerized),
uniform budgeting systems.
The rationalization of the budgeting processes, the participatory approach to project design and
implementation activities by aUl institutions, along with capacity built through a modest competitive
research fund and a series of project-related studies have combined to reinvigorate Guinean higher
education in the way envisioned during project preparation. Even before activation of the electronic
communications component, the project activities had heightened professional communication not only
between the MESRSC and the institutions, but among the institutions themselves as the faculty,
administration, students and researchers have participated in many consultations, joint in-service training,
and competition for funds.
The MESRSC and the tertiary institutions have shown real initiative in tackling the politically thorny yet
financially critical areas, such as the reduction of scholarships and the introduction of cost-recovery efforts.
Though the resulting savings have not been significant, progress on eliminating non-academic subsidies and
scholarships for repeating students constitute considerable gains on the political front. In addition,
although the Ministry was unsuccessfuly in reducing the number of scholarship recipients through
legislation, the continuing willingness to try new strategies merits note. Moreover, the introduction of a
credit-hour system wiUl help increase academic efficiency and, potentially, effectiveness.
At the MESRSC, the DNRST and the University of Conakry, the installation of a telephone network and
the provision of intemet capacity that has become the most visible element of the project -- even though the
systems have yet to be activated. At the time of the ICR mission, both of these elements were near
completion. Though it is difficult to quantify the precise impact that the activation of telephones and
intemet service will have on professional and intelectual communication in Guinean higher education, such
capacities represent critical access to the knowledge resources available within the country, within the
region, and around the world. In addition, at this time, this unique capacity-building endeavor in the public
sector of the country is likely to set an important example for other ministries and related institutions. The
new communications system installation (telephone and internet) currently focused on Conakry, however,
does not extend to the outlying institutions of higher education and research; the planned radio system for
use by higher education institutions outside of Conakry has never been realized. Moreover, while Guinean
institutions of higher education are becoming more autonomous, fiscally rational, academically relevant and
potentially able to generate revenue, they are not experiencing greater cost effectiveness. Regardless of the
elimination of scholarships for repeating students, the rising student population and social transfers
(through higher scholarship awards), along with the inability of the MESRSC to push changes through
Parliament (or of institutions to impose user fees), retard much of the cost effectiveness anticipated by the
project. While much of the institutional development has a strong likelihood of sustainability due to high
- 5 -



stakeholder ownership in the new procedures and practices, the sustainability of the commnunications
network will depend on a sound cost recovery and long-term maintenance plan. Connecting the outlying
institutions of higher education to the new electronic conmmunications system will also require significant
capital investment, operation and maintenance costs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(1) Reorganization of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRSC), the National
Directorate of Scientific and Technological Research (DNRST) and the country's five institutions of higher
education based on identified need and resource availability.
The overall output of this component was satisfactory. The component produced most of its major
anticipated objectives with limited problems. Most of the administrative procedures in Guinean higher
education were highly centralized and this component was to devolve much of the planning to
increasingly autonomous institutions. Therefore, activities undertaken as part of this component were
related to govemance, finance and/or management.
There were 10 representative working groups with members from across the beneficiary institutions, a
steering committee chaired by the Minister of Higher Education, and an inter-ministerial committee to
coordinate policies among the Ministries of Planning, Finance, and Pre-University Education. The
working groups were continually active, as was the steering committee, but the inter-ministerial
committee only met once and never really assumed its anticipated role. Regarding govemance, study
agendas related to specific aspects of reforms were developed each year of the project and all of them
were executed by stakeholders in consultation with the implementing agency and the World Bank.
While administrators received training to establish an accreditation body, faculty were not trained for
their role in the process so the accreditation body has not yet become functional.
Regarding finance, criteria were to be established for distribution of research grants through a
competitive fund (FREC) that was established after related training for academic staff. The anticipated
$100,000 in PADES funds were fully distributed to more than 20 faculty for proposed research. The
administration of FREC was established under Component 3. The government was to set up a
matching fund of 20% for FREC, but this was not realized under PADES. Teaching hours were
increased as planned to augment the internal efficiency of institutions by lowering the per-hour cost
ratio. While university restaurants were closed as a cost-saving measure, they were not privatized as
hoped to produce a revenue generating activity. While eligibility criteria for scholarships changed to
deny funding to repeating students as a another cost-saving measure, and one of the two primary
scholarship funds was eliminated, the nunber of students eligible for scholarships continued to rise, as
did the per-student allocation of the remaining scholarship fund. This reflects the lack of political will
within Parliament -- MESRSC continues to be open to such policy changes.
Regarding management, more than 30 institutional-level studies were conducted by local faculty, and
institutional development plans were completed by all institutions. Out of this process, national and
institutional stakeholder consultations took place to develop collective and individual missions for
higher education that are now moving forward under self-detennined institutional action plans. Female
participation increased from 6% to 15%. User fees were not raised as a cost-recovery measure as
planned, but dormitory charges did increase although not to full cost-recovery levels.
(2) Establishment of a viable information and communications system at both the Ministerial and
- 6 -



institutional levels.
The overall output of this component was satisfactory, having produced most of its major anticipated
outputs with a limited number of shortcomings. Computerized data collection and analysis systems
were put into place at MERSC and in each of the institutions, including hardware, software and
in-service training. The result was the annual production of a statistical yearbook containing relevant
data on higher education, including not only statistics on enrollment, but also on finance. Information
systems in other administrative offices were installed and staff were trained to use them in support of
both financial and management objectives of the institutions.
Most visible, however, has been the installation of a VSAT satellite dish, intemet system and telephone
network at the University of Conakry, MESRSC, and DNRST, which should be functional in July
2002. Indeed, PADES has the unusual distinction of having introduced the internet to Guinea;
ownership of the domain name .gn was initially held by PADES until it was transfered to the
Government. This is sure to enhance overall professional and intellectual communication as well as the
sharing of information between the Ministry and institutions, among institutions themselves, and with
scholars abroad. Unfortunately, the anticipated radio network for the other institutions of higher
education was not realized under PADES, and there is a risk that outlying institutions will remain or
become marginalized. Donor agencies have taken the lead in installing satellite dishes and ICT
networks at outlying institutions, buttressing the initial internet installation under PADES.
(3) Augmentation of financial and budget management capacity through improved budgetary programming
and monitoring at the Ministry and institutional levels.
The overall output of this component was satisfactory. The component produced most of its major
anticipated objectives with few issues. Computer hardware and software were installed at MESRSC,
as well as at each institution. Both Ministry- and institution-level personnel completed training in
accounting, budgeting and computer skills. After some difficulties with the implementation of budget
procedures and transparency, an external financial and technical audit was conducted at each
institution. The audit was not foreseen in the project, but was clearly a seminal activity in helping to
build capacity at a critical moment in PADES implementation. The frank, detailed and highly critical
results of the rigorous extemal audit were presented to the institutions; the Minister of Education
convened a workshop of financial managers to construct a manual of procedures to govern the
accounting activities of all financial personnel in higher education. However difficult this process may
have been, it permitted the budgeting staff throughout the entire system to recognize the importance of
applying comprehensive and uniform accounting procedures. The result has been a more independent
yet transparent management of resources by institutions. Moreover, these financial data are now in a
universally recognized format so that they can be readily shared with the central Ministry and analyzed
rapidly even by outside entities. Although the audit activity was initially a difficult and
time-consuming one for budget staff, it is now intemally viewed as a supportive activity; controllers,
financial managers, and accountants throughout the higher education system of Guinea have requested
that the Government make extemal audits an annual undertaking. Furthermore, the more accurate
financial data produced by the universal application of the Manual of Procedures now serve as the
backbone to the revision and perfection of performance indicators for the sector. Finally, the
competitive research fund (FREC) from Component 1 was established, linking the MESRSC with
institutions in the administration of the grants. Relevant staff participated in training and much needed
computer facilities were installed to administer the $100,000 in research grants that were distributed
through a competitive process.
-7-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Even though all necessary data are not available for a full cost-effectiveness analysis of the reform, one can
estimate some of the economic benefits of certain reforms by making a comparison before and after the
implementation. This analysis is limited to cost-recovery issues, improvement in the management of
scholarships, the reduction in food subsidies and privatization of restaurant services.
During the two years before these reforms were introduced (1998-99), the only revenues raised by the
universities came from registration fees estimated at nearly GNF 400 million. These were more than offset
by government subsidies for running student cafeterias, costing the State GNF 6.2 billion. In 2000,
however, several fiscal reforms were implemented to help remedy this fiscal imbalance; these reforms
included closing state-funded university cafeterias, raising the fees charged to students for dornitory
housing, raising registration fees, increasing the fees paid by foreign students, eliminating subsidized food
tickets and eliminating scholarships for repeating students.
The financial benefit for 2000 and 2001 from the additional cost sharing from these new student
contributions, were estimated at approximately GNF 450 million. The reduction in food subsidies
(approximately GNF 54,000 per student/per month) were estimated at GNF 6.4 billion and the impact of
eliminating scholarships for repeating students totaled GNF 1.7 billion for the same period. The overall
savings to government expenditures, everything else held constant, would have added up to approximately
GNF 8.5 billion for 2000 and 2001. However, much of the anticipated savings were never realized as the
Government of Guinea raised the amount of State subsidy to students in the form of individual scholarships
(from the former GNF 40,000 to a new scholarship of GNF 60,000 per student) to compensate for the loss
of food tickets and the application of cost recovery. Moreover, the Government increased the number of
university entrants by approximately 40% (from 10,060 students in 1999 to 14,156 students in 2001),
effectively erasing much of any fiscal benefit derived from the reforms.
As shown in the table in Annex 3, total government expenditures on scholarships and food subsidies for the
two years before reforms was estimated at GNF 13.5 billion, while cost recovery generated for the same
period was a total of GNF 372 million (for approximately 20,000 students for the two years). For the
period 2000 and 2001, total expenditures were estimated at GNF 13.6 billion (for approximately 25,000
student) and the impact of cost recovery and cost savings were approximately GNF 2.5 billion (for
approximately 25,000 students). Total benefits rose from GNF 372 million to GNF 2.5 billion from one
period to the next, a net increase estimated at GNF 2 billion (less than the anticipated GNF 8.5 billion),
for 2000 and 2001. Had the Government not eliminated food subsidies and still increased the number of
students the Government's expenditures would have increased by GNF 6.8 billion over the same period.
Thus while the savings seem modest, the policy reforms allowed the universities to absorb a 20 percent
increase in the number of new students, introduced students to cost sharing and reduced inefficiencies in
scholarship management
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Neither a financial rate of return (FRR) nor other financial indicators were calculated for PADES.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the outcome of overall objectives and output of all project components are rated satisfactory, the
- 8 -



overall improvement of MESRSC and higher education institutions in making more effective use of
available human and financial resources is quite remarkable and worthy of high praise. Most noteworthy
have been the transformations in the management practices of higher education institutions, in the mode and
frequency of communications with the central ministry, as well as improvements in the academic
professional culture. The behavior, values and norms of the MESRSC itself have been noticeably
transformed by involvement with PADES. The institutional development impact from this project,
therefore, can be judged as substantial. This is particularly noteworthy within the MESRSC itself where
this seemingly modest project has built capacity and functionality, providing voice and relative
effectiveness to a ministry that had been marginalized.
As noted in Sections 3.5, 4.1, and 4.2 above, after some initial implementation difficulties, modem and
transparent budgeting practices have been intemalized by higher education institutions and the Ministry,
thanks to activities supported by the project, including equipment provision, training, and audits. There is
greater appreciation within the higher education sector for the meaning, practice and benefits of
institutional autonomy, thereby stimulating stakeholder consideration of revenue-generating activities,
cost-saving strategies, and academic quality as part of the continuing dialogue taking place within the
framework of national and institutional strategic planning exercises.
Faculty research activity and knowledge-sharing -- as evidenced by the number of proposals received in the
FREC grant competitions -- has been stimulated by new financial incentives set in place by PADES. It is
difficult to quantify and estimate, however, the impact on faculty motivation and commitment. The
findings from interviews with the dozens of FREC grant winners (laureats) - as well as interviews with
faculty who had not won grant funds through the FREC competitions - suggest that merely the opportunity
to apply for funding itself has markedly reinvigorated an academic spirit and pride. For the laureats,
however, findings show that even small levels of grant funding were able to stimulate research and build
academic capacity in both scientific and arts disciplines. In some instances, moreover, female faculty were
given voice and leadership on projects that have since continued. The sustainability of such impact on the
academic profession in Guinea, however, is fully dependent on the continued availability and even the
expansion of funds through the contribution of government resources.
As noted earlier, due to delays in activation, the impact of high-speed intemet and modem telephone
capability on the higher education sector of Guinea has yet to be fully appreciated. The ICR mission can
only speculate at this time as to the institutional tansformation that is likely to take place as a result of
instantaneous local and intemational communication, information sharing, collaboration, and data mining
that will be possible as of July 2002 in Conakry. It is suggested that institutional development resulting
from the communications component under PADES be monitored and calculated through evaluation of
precise performance indicators and qualitative assessments during future supervision missions of the
newly-effective Guinea Education For All (EFA) project (Project ID P050046). The impact of the PADES
conimunications component may indeed be substantial. Potential marginalization of institutions outside the
modem communications network may reinforce geographic dominance of Conalry in the system of higher
education, and equity of access to communications should remain a focus of concem in any future
assessments.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no such factors during the implementation of PADES.
-9-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Higher education policy, as set out in the Lettre Politique of the Government, and the explicit mention of
higher sector policy within the 1994 CAS, both served to open the door to and to demonstrate concrete
commitment for reformns and investment in Guinean higher education. Nevertheless, the frequent changes
in minister that took place during identification, appraisal, negotiation, and effectiveness of the project
served to disturb continuity of leadership and commitment to PADES early on. Frequent shifts to and from
a centralized national Ministry of Education to a specialized Ministry of Higher Education also disturbed
governance structures and contributed to the lack of continuity in practice. These factors are held up by
Government as being key to delays between the signing of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and
effectiveness of PADES eight months later. Moreover, the shifts in ministry organization and change in
minister in 1997 are cited as reasons for unsatisfactory delays in the provision of counterpart funding and
in lack of progress in the development objectives, component progress, and project monitoring.
Just as the project was facing serious problems in November 1997, a new Minister was appointed to the
newly independent MESRSC. The sarne Minister was still in place at the time of the ICR mission in May
2002, providing for four and a half years of continuity in leadership. While serious problems with project
implementation continued at the start of his tenure in 1998, they rapidly diminished as he displayed
commitment, leadership and dynamism in improving PADES performance and impact. Indeed, throughout
the ICR mission, faculty, administrators and students remarked that the current Minister differs from
earlier ministers in that he is a "man of action" and is willing to take political risks to pursue policies and
activities that will promote PADES objectives and constituent components. Moreover, immediately after
taking up his post, the Minister was instrumental in selecting and appointing a new and subsequently
effective Project Coordinator from the ranks of the Ministry. The Minister made additional appointments
to key positions within the MESRSC and within institutions of higher education that would prove
instrumental in stimulating greater stakeholder commitment and involvement in PADES activities.
The Minister himself also led a national consultation on higher education in May 1999, and subsequently
led a team of govemment officials and institutional leaders on a visit to World Bank headquarters and to
universities in the United States that same month, just prior to the Mid-Term Review of PADES in June
1999. At that time, development objectives expected at appraisal were rated unsatisfactory. The
Govenmment agreed in the Aide-Memoire to fulfill key indicators. From this point onward the Government
took action, fulfilling agreements on changes in component focus, and on greater transfer of project
activities to beneficiaries which served to speed up implementation of PADES activities as well as
disbursements. The Ministry's efforts to lower scholarships in 2001, however, were thwarted by the
reluctance of the National Assembly (Parliament) to pass a law that v.wcm!d introduce higher fees and limit
scholarships. The Ministry expressed its own belief that it had been a tactical error to seek Parliamentary
Authority in the first place and decided to go ahead in 2002 in a different manner by introducing a new
credit-hour system with paying students.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) lacked effective management at the start, exacerbating difficulties
with the Govemment and leading to delays in the transition to effectiveness and during the first year of
PADES operation. This problem continued until the first project coordinator's contract ended in December
1997, and a new project coordinator was installed in March 1998. There were other problems: beneficiary
participation in the initial implementation of PADES components was low, slowing stakeholder ownership
- 10-



of project activities. Staffing in the PCU was also bloated and contained a somewhat inappropriate skill
mix. Early audits of project finances and procurement signaled difficulties, leading to the recommendation
of appropriate remedies by Bank finance and procurement specialists; these were satisfactorily
administered. As part of restructuring of project coordination in early 1998, the staff was reduced from 12
to 4 and the skill mix was reconstituted under the new project coordinator. The project continued to have
difficulties, and university staff were unhappy with the lack of progress and their lack of involvement. The
PCU complained at this time of long delays in obtaining non-objections from the Bank. However, after the
National Consultation on Higher Education and the Government visit to World Bank headquarters in May
1999, along with the timely MTR in June 1999, stakeholder participation in PADES components showed a
marked increase, activities started to move, and disbursements rose to acceptable levels.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The reasons for delays from the signing of DCA to Project Effectiveness, and delays in the release of
counterpart funds, have been explained in Section 3.5 above. The pace at which different components of
the project were funded changed over time, with disbursements happening more quickly after the MTR.
Ultimately the funding for communications will just slightly exceed the projected amount, whereas other
component disbursements are slightly below projected amounts. The delays in the communications
component were due to the late start of the bidding process, some unexpected technical difficulties with the
installation of the satellite dish, and long government approval times for communications access. Overall,
the financial outcome of project disbursements is rather close to projections, save for the noted
inefficiencies that resulted from early delays.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The probability of maintaining the institutional achievements generated is likely given the level of
govemment commitment to the project results, the improved policy environment developed by the
participatory nature of the reforms since the MTR, the enhanced institutional and management
effectiveness through improved budgeting procedures and staff training. Most important has been the
stakeholder participation and the change in institutional cultures within the institutions of higher education
and research, as evidenced by greater management and financial autonomy, and by the level of involvement
in national and institutional development plans, as well as the surprisingly high level of faculty
participation in the research fund competitions. Moreover, the high visibility of the communications
component at MESRSC and at the connected institutions within Conakry has generated a high level of
anticipation surrounding this new capacity. There is a moderate risk that the achievements will not be
sustained, however, as legislation or a comprehensive set of binding regulations has not yet been put in
place to ensure that all new practices will be required after any change in government. The Government's
commitment to the new EFA project and its significant higher education component will help to reduce the
risk.
The financial sustainability of reforms at this point, however, will be provided by the recent effectiveness of
the Guinea EFA6 project, which contains important higher education components that can build from the
gains made during PADES implementation. The higher education components of Guinea EFA focus on
quality factors, including the development of a central library, curriculum reform, expansion of competitive
funding for research, and upgrading of faculty competences. The Government and institutions themselves,
however, must commit to supporting matching funds for research.
- 11 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regutlar operations:
Any transitional arrangements have been made with the Guinea EFA project as a framework in which to
continue effective operation of several components, particularly the research fund and the communications
component (now related to library development). Fewer maintenance provisions have been made, however,
for the gains in fiscal management at the ministry and institutional level. EFA has set out performance
indicators by which the future project can be monitored, but it will be important to develop additional
indicators for assuring that institutions outside of Conakry either develop their own communications
system, or gain frequent and regular access to the one in place at Conakry. Moreover, it will be important
to develop specific indicators to determine institutional development impact of internet access and telephone
service.
Education Pour Tous (EPT).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The World Bank's overall lending performance was satisfactory during the early stages of the project cycle.
As noted in Section 3.5, identification was consistent with government priorities as expressed in the 1994
CAS. Preparation had adequate design aspects and relied heavily on ESW; however, there is not a great
deal of evidence of wide stakeholder consultation in advance of the project. This may have added to some
of the lack of early ownership of project components. Project coordination capacity was somewhat
misjudged early on, but corrected early enough to permnit the project impact to be rated satisfactory overall.
The risk assessment of the project had initially been low, but subsequently ranked as moderate given the
dependence on policy changes necessary to effect development objectives. The financial package was
appropriate in size and balance, and the implementation plan was realistic. The most important aspects of
project design were the central role of supervision, the pivotal exercise of the MTR, and the flexibility of
Bank staff to modify operating style as needed after the MTR.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of PADES can be considered satisfactory overall. Problems with project coordination were
detected early; financial audits and procurement reviews helped to serve as an objective check on the
judgment of the task managers and bolster remedies required by the Bank. The performance ratings were
realistic, with sufficient attention paid to development objectives. Sound advice and technical assistance
were provided to the PCU as needed. The Mid-Term Review was a critical point in the project, helping to
set in motion remedies that eventually led to improved performance ratings from unsatisfactory to
satisfactory. The flexibility and willingness of World Bank staff to listen and respond to government
difficulties with project coordination helped to strengthen PCU effectiveness, particularly by placing
greater emphasis on local consultants and using international technical assistance more explicitly to build
local capacity. The World Bank Country Office provided continuity while the project transitioned through
three task managers during the implementation of PADES (two in the first half, and one in the second half).
The working relationship between the PCU and the Government can be characterized as weak in the first
half, and strong in the second half of project implementation. Government selection of a new coordinator
- 12 -



may have helped to build a sense of project ownership. The PCU signaled slow response time to
non-objection requests as a difficulty during the first two years of PADES. Staff time in the field was
initially sufficient, but due to administrative budget constraints it dropped markedly after the Mid-Term
Review. Nevertheless, the task manager during the second half of the project made prudent use of Country
Office capacity, project-related technical assistance, and video conferencing to maintain
PCU/Government/Bank relations and PADES supervision on a lean budget. After the MTR, when
institutional capacity to adequately apply new budgeting and financial management systems became
apparent, the task team recommended external financial and technical audits of all institutions. While this
was first met with reluctance by the institutions, with the insistence and support of the Bank, the
Governnent internalized the findings and implemented an action plan with satisfactory results. The task
team monitored agreed actions adequately.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. See 7.1 and 7.2 for details.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project documentation from identification and preparation of PADES do not show a high level of
Government involvement in the early stages, yet this was likely due in part to a lack of overall stakeholder
involvement by the Bank, and a generally very low level of existing institutional capacity. The lack of deep
engagement and shifts in Ministry leadership during preparation appear to have led to unsatisfactory delays
between Board approval and effectiveness, as well as to difficulties with securing counterpart funds early
on. The weak stakeholder involvement in the selection of project management may have contributed to a
lack of government commitment to PADES in the first half of project implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
In spite of early performance difficulties, the implementation of the project by the Government was
satisfactory overall. Commitment increased from being unsatisfactory to highly satisfactory with changes
in project management and changes in Ministry leadership. Problems with project implementation were
more easily resolved and local stakeholders became more deeply involved with project components. The
Ministry was very supportive of operational decisions after the Mid-Term Review, and was particularly
instrumental in applying lessons learned from external audits of all higher education institutions.
Leadership on the issue of user fees and cost recovery by the Government, however, could have been
stronger and more effective. The inter-ministerial committee for PADES was largely inactive; greater
involvement from other ministries could have helped produce a more coherent overall education project
strategy and perhaps have facilitated implementation of the communications component. Of significant
concern is the Government's creation of parallel enrollments or "second shift" in higher education as a way
to address cost recovery issues: double sessions with one "regular" enrollment receiving full scholarship,
and a second session system at the same institution for less qualified applicants who must pay fees for the
same education. This has serious equity implications that must be more adequately considered and
addressed.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the PCU performance was satisfactory, but met with early difficulties in financial management and
- 13-



procurement. Regular supervision with Bank audits of finances and practices were followed by explicit
action plans set out in mission Aide-Memoires. A change in staffing of the PCU heralded improvements in
disbursements, stakeholder involvement, implementation of studies and overall performance. Although new
staffing was critical to movement toward development objectives, staff did not always present required
information to the Bank in a timely manner, thereby exacerbating delays.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance, while uneven from the first to the second half of implementation, can be judged as
satisfactory overall. This judgment is based on the Borrower's actions presented throughout this document,
taking into consideration that PADES development objectives were largely achieved, the higher education
policy framework in Guinea appropriately restructured, management capacity improved, communications
enhanced, and commitment to reforns explicit with wide stakeholder involvement.
8. Lessons Learned
Higher Education Sector
*   In countries where there is little movement and reform dialogue in the higher education sector,
modest projects can stimulate substantial institutional development and set the stage for improved
efficiency and more complex reforms;
*   Technical assistance are more likely to have substantial impact on institutional development and
greater skill transfer when conducted in close collaboration with local institutional staff;
* Modest investment in ICT infrastructure can contribute to substantial impact on institutional
development, particularly where there is little or no existing network;
* Small competitive or incentive funds within institutions of higher education can have substantial
impact on academic culture; and
* Administrative and ministry-level reforms (budgeting, finance, etc.) can be more broadly accepted
when technical assistance and investments are made concurrently in more visible academic areas
(incentive funds for faculty, internet installation, etc.).
Proiect Operations
* Central and institutional capacity can be built simultaneously for synergistic impact in the higher
education sector;
* Performance indicators should be defined early and in close consultation with the project
coordination unit and the government; and
* External audits on individual institutions can serve as a check on effectiveness of new financial
management systems and staff training; subsequent development of explicit action plans can help
to address critical issues, share learning across institutions and facilitate the construction of a
manual of procedures based on concrete diagnosis.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(Drawn from Government contribution -- sunmarized by Bank staff)
Before the PADES project, weaknesses in the system of higher education and scientific research included:
- 14 -



(a) obvious disconnect between the outputs of the system and the needs of the labor market; (b) growing
imbalance between between higher education demand and supply due to the enormous social demand for
education and the limited capacity of tertiary institutions; (c) deterioration of the infrastructure and the
absence of adequate learning materials. The Government launched a strategy for higher education and
scientific research which sought to act along three major axes: improvements in efficiency, in quality and
in relevance; it is on the basis of this strategy that the PADES was conceptualized and implemented.
The project was able to achieve its objectives, with necessary adjustments both in the implementing
structures and in the component activities, themselves. The details of these adjustments, particularly those
that took place at and after the mid-term review, are discussed in detail in Annex 9.
The project supported thematic studies and consultations, and financed several study tours, all of which
helped better define the needed reforms. The results of those studies led to the following, among others:
*   institutional development plans for the tertiary institutions and a strategic plan for the ministry;
*  privatization of university cafeterias and related measures;
*  preparation of curricular reforms, including mechanisms for evaluation and accreditation of curricula
and institutions;
*  better management of student numbers, and increased ways of accessing higher education;
*   greater relevance of education with greater focus on employment and entrepreneurship;
*   expanded training of personnel inside and outside Guinea;
*   creation of a research fund (FREC) with 33 research projects financed;
* computerization of the administration as well as of tertiary institutions;
*   introduction of intemet and communication technologies for institutions, ministry departments, research
centers, and documentation centers; and
*   improvements in program budgeting, budget execution and monitoring.
The project weaknesses and strengths, as well as implementation details, are provided in Annex 9.
Overall attainment of project obiectives: Despite the initial delays in implementation, the project has
achieved its principal objectives with some success. The project's tangible (i.e. material) achievements
made important contributions to the strengthening of the capacity of the sector as a whole. But it was the
conception and implementation (whether entirely or partially) of reforms that constitute the key
achievements of this project. The project supported the Ministry and the tertiary institutions in their efforts
to solve the problems evident in this sub-sector. Through the studies and consultations, subjects that were
hitherto considered "taboo" were brought up and discussed (these would include scholarships, cleaning up
the financial management, more efficient use of personnel, etc.). The project was able to accompany this
reform effort with information campaigns, training opportunities as well as the material support necessary.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Development Objective                         Outcome
Greater institutional                        Budget transfers
autonomy                             from MESRSC to
institutions based on
institutional business plans.
.       Personnel
management moving away
from civil service
engagements toward limited
contracts.
Improved cost effectiveness         .        Implementation of
cost some recovery.
Funds limited to
continuing students in good
standing and suppressed for
repeating students.
a        Transparent budget
system and reporting.
Increase relevance for                       Business plans
economic development                 developed
Academic program
reviews with related
modifications (including
closure of unnecessary
programs).
COMPONENT I
Reorganization of MESRS, DNRST and Guinea's five institubons
of higher educabion based on identified need and resource                       Actual or latest estimate
availability.
($3.6 Million)                                                  ($3.2 Million)
University governance-
* Execubon of study agendas for MESRS and DNR (QA role     * 6 sludies conducted and produced at the central Ministry level.
for MESRS and dearinghouse role for DNR).
* Development and functioning of an accreditation system by  * Structure in place at DNES, procedures not yet functioning
MESRSC.                                                    (reason: faculty not yet trained)
* Training of central and institutional personnel for development  * DNES staff trained at IIEP in Paris
and applicabon of accreditation procedures.
* Closure of identified marginal programs and institutions.  * 6 programs closed; no institutions closed
* Planning and execution of training programs.             * 20 Programs
University finance-
* Establishment of compefitive criteria for block grants.  * Criteria established.
* Projected $100, 000 fully disbursed.
* Training of central and institutional personnel for development  * DNRST staff and faculty trained in competiive fund
and application of competitive funding criteria.           administrabon.
* Increase in the number of teaching hours to raise efficiency.  * Teaching raised to 12 hours for assistant professors, 10 hours
for full and associate professors as projected
Reduction in the number of scholarships & curtailing eligibility  * Repeating students now forfeit scholarship for repeating year.
- 16 -



criteria.                                            * Student numbers projected to stabilize at 9000, but had risen
to 11,160 in 2001. (the figure was 14,000 for 2002 in the
period after program closure.)
* Increase in non-salary expenditures.                 * Projected target was 25% of budget.
Actual goal reached was 35%
* Establishment of cost-recovery mechanisms.           * Student restaurant facilifies projected to be privatized.
* Faclities actually closed. Students fed by off-campus
providers.
* Reduction In social transfers from the overall higher educaton  * Projected target was 5% annual reduction.
budget                                               * Actual reduction went from 24% to 9.83% at program closure.
* Percentage of overall education budget spent on higher  * Projected target was down to a range of 17% - 25%.
education to be reduced                              * Actual percentage at closure was 17.24%.
Universit managenent-.
* i. ConducUng a series of insitutonal-level studies focusing  * 19 studies conducted, produced disseminated and discussed
on elements to support a movement toward institutional  at institutions of higher educaton and research.
autonomy.
* II. Constuction of indIvkdual institutional development plans  * All higher educaton and research insitutons completed
(PDI).                                                 institutonal development pans.
* iiL. Hostng a national-level consultaton to develop goals for  * National-level dialogue held.
higher educaton and research.
* vi. Female participation - ncrease as a percentage of  * Female partidpation projeded to rise from 6% to 15%
enrollment-                                          * Actual female parUcipaton rate at dosure: 15%
* v. Student services - enhance development of support  * No specific enhancement of student support services noted
services-                                              (other than telephone and internet service at Univ. Conakry.
See: communicatons component.)
* University user fees - augment user fees to improve cost  * Projeted to become 5% and 10% of budget revenues by 1999.
recovery.
* Fees actually raised after Mid-Term Review In 1999 by 50%
from 10,000GF to 15,00OGF for Initial registration, and from
5,OOOGF to 10,OOOGF for subsequent registratons. This rise
in scholarship rates, however, erased any gains made in
closing of university restaurants. Lodging fees were also
raised from 1,500GF to 5,000-7,500GF
- 17 -



COMPONENT 2
Establishment of a viable information and communicabons system
at both the Ministry and institutional levels.
($2.0 million)                                              ($2.4 Million)
Improved data collecbon. analysis and disseminaton
($0.5 million)                                              ($0.6 Million)
* Definition of responsibility for data collection, analysis and  * Statistical office established at MESRSC.
disseminabon
* Development of institutional level data systems.      * Stabstical and planning offices established within each higher
education institution.
* Purchase and installation of MESRSC computer equipment  * Computers and software purchased and installed in MESRSC.
and materials for statistical analysis, tracer studies, and
personnel management.
* In-service training of MESRS personnel in equipment usage  * MESRSC personnel received in-service training in equipment
and analysis.                                           usage, data collection, and analysis.
* Preparabon of a stabstcal yearbook, data collection protocols,  * Statistical yearbooks produced in 1998, 1999, 2000. Yearbook
personnel files, and student databases at both Ministry and  for 2001 is expected in 2002.
institutional levels.
U1araded institutional informabon systems
($0.7 million)                                              ($0.6 Million)
* Purchase and installation of informabion systems (computers  * Computers and software purchased and installed at each
& software) at institutional-level.                     higher education and research insttution.
* In-service training of insttutional-level personnel in equipment  * In-semce training provided to related institutional personnel.
usage and analysis.
Improved communications
($0.8 million)                                              ($1 2 Million)
* Installabon of campus telephone system at University of  * Telephone system nearly complete at ICR mission in May
Conakry.                                                2002. All hardware installed by Segibel (Canadian firm), but
awaiting electric generator installation to ensure service due to
unreliable local energy supplies.
* Installation and establishment of function in an electronic data  * At ICR mission, VSAT satellite dish was fully installed at
communications network and email.                       University of Conakry, along with all linked wiring and hardware
throughout the university locabons, as well as in the central
MESRSC office downtown. Awaiting clearances from
govemment for operation and for independent electric
generator to ensure necessary electric current.
* Installation and establishment of funcbon in a radio  * Other institutions did not receive planned radio system as
communications network for institutions not linked by   planned under PADES.
telephone.



COMPONENT 3
Augmentation of financial and budget management capacity
through improved budgetary programming and monitoring at the
Ministry and institutional levels.
($1.1 Million)
SuDDOrt for Ministrv-level financial manaaement
($0.5 million)                                              ($0.6 Million)
* Training of DMF personnel in accounting, budgeting, and  * MESRSC DAAF personnel trained In accounting, budgeting
computer skills.                                         and computer skills for financial management(Universit6 de
Quebec a Montreal)
* Purchase and installation of computers and software for DMF  * Computers and software purchased and installed.
* Technical assistance for establishing compeUtive funding &  * TA for competitive funding received. Software installed.
Installabon of software at DMAF.
Support for InstitutionaUlevel financial manaaement
($0.6 million)                                              ($0.3 Million)
* Training of institutionaWlevel personnel In accounting,  * Instiutional-level staff trained in accounting, budgeting, and
budgeting, and computer skills.                          computer skills. (Universite de Qubbec a Montr6al)
* Purchase and installation of computers & software at each  * Computers and software purchased and installed.
institution.
* Technical assistance for establishing competitive funding &  * TA for competitive funding received. Software installed.
installaton of software at institutons.



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-          ^,   '    .  . '. A'^-d,9ppra  ct'iual'Latest, ... Percentage of
~Estimate     E  timt       Appraisal
-; t_     Project.CostBy;Component             US$ million  . US$ million
Institutional reorganization                       3.10           2.80            0.9
Inforrmation & communication systems                1.70          2.10            1.2
Budgetary programming & monitoring                  1.00          0.60            0.6
Refunding of PPF                                   0.60           0.60             1
Total Baseline Cost                                6.40           6.10
Physical Contingencies                            0.40           0.00           0.95
Price Contingencies                               0.50           0.30           100
Total Project Costs             7.30           6.40
Total Financing Required             7.30           6.40
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
,.-.Procuremeint.lilethod- .
E,penditure Catego y -.: V  ' lCB  7  ICB'     . 'ther                    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00        1.70         0.00         1.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)      (1.70)
2. Goods                     1.60         0.00         0.10         0.00        1.70
(1.20)       (0.00)       (0.10)       (0.00)      (1.30)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         3.20         0.00        3.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.20)       (0.00)      (3.20)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.70         0.00        0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)       (0.00)      (0.40)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     1.60         0.00         5.70         0.00         7.30
(1.20)       (0.00)       (5.40)       (0.00)      (6.60)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Exp6Eandfture Categoy .    ICB   -   Rr9sremeIt MetHod 2'        N.B.F.   :Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     1.78        0.72         0.00         0.00        2.50
(1.78)       (0.57)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.35)
3. Services                 0.00         2.99         0.00         0.00        2.99
(0.00)       (2.99)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.99)
- 20 -



4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.82           0.00           0.00          0.82
(0.00)         (0.67)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.67)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          1.78           4.53           0.00           0.00          6.31
(1.78)         (4.23)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.01)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Financing Plan
Estimated in the SAR         Actual
(US$m)                (US$m)
IDA                                     6.6                  6.01
Government                              0.7                  0.30
Totals                                  7.3                  6.31
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Even though all necessary data are not available for a full cost-effectiveness analysis of the reform, one can
estimate some of the economic benefits of certain reforms by making a comparison before and after the
implementation. This analysis is limited to the cost recovery, improvement in the management of
scholarships, the reduction in food subsidies and privatization of restaurant services.
During the -wo years before these reforms were introduced (1998-99), the only revenues raised by the
universitieZ. came from registration fees estimated at nearly GNF 400 million. These were more than offset
by government subsidies for running student cafeterias, costing the State GNF 6.2 billion. In 2000,
however, several fiscal reforms were implemented to help remedy this fiscal imbalance; these reforms
included closing state-fumded university cafeterias, raising the fees charged to students for dormitory
housing, raising registration fees, increasing the fees paid by foreign students, eliminating subsidized food
tickets and eliminating scholarships for repeating students.
The financial benefit for 2000 and 2001 from the additional cost sharing from these new student
contributions, were estimated at approximately GNF 450 million. The reduction in food subsidies
(approximately GNF 54,000 per student/per month) were estimated at GNF 6.4 billion and the impact of
eliminating scholarships for repeating students totaled GNF 1.7 billion for the same period. The overall
savings to government expenditures, everything else held constant, would have added up to approximately
GNF 8.5 billion for 2000 and 2001. However, much of the anticipated savings were never realized as the
Government of Guinea raised the amount of State subsidy to students in the form of individual scholarships
(from the former GNF 40,000 to a new scholarship of GNF 60,000 per student) to compensate for the loss
of food tickets and the application of cost recovery. Moreover, the Government increased the number of
university entrants by approximately 40% (from 10,060 students in 1999 to 14,156 students in 2001),
effectively erasing much of any fiscal benefit derived from the reforms.
As shown in the table in Annex 3, total Government expenditures on scholarships and food subsidies for
the two years before reforms was estimated at GNF 13.5 billion, while cost recovery generated for the same
period was a total of GNF 372 million (for approximately 20,000 students for the two years). For the
period 2000 and 2001, total expenditures were estimated at GNF 13.6 billion (for approximately 25,000
student) and the impact of cost recovery and cost savings were approximately GNF 2.5 billion (for
approximately 25,000 students). Total benefits rose from GNF 372 million to GNF 2.5 billion from one
period to the next, a net increase estimated at GNF 2 billion (less than the anticipated GNF 8.5 billion),
for 2000 and 2001. Had the Government not eliminated food subsidies and still increased the number of
students the Government's expenditures would have increased by GNF 6.8 billion over the same period.
Thus while the savings seem modest, the policy reforms allowed the universities to absorb a 20 percent
increase in the number of new students, introduced students to cost sharing and reduced inefficiencies in
scholarship management.
- 22 -



A bcage dce EtEt (1)  .   TcS (1)                           A bla da  des besn (a)s                        |Tcb
kA6rrlafedifs     &              Abrnftac     TciBo B            non cus 3 rmes  'sI;                    P    a       H,   _
1sse 1000B     3602 89D OOD  3096240312    6699120312                   34977500       29465000        7840D000    2808DOD0
1999 10060    36216000 0    3112327852    6 733 92 892                 35156000       2962D 6D       104000000    31734000l
S_us_     20068     722448D000    6 208 5082D4  134330482D4                  70133500       59 _ _00       182 18400 OD  60534000  _
Tab 2 Afer ufns
Yens                   Abc    ec  IE         f 1   Tc"(1)                          Ab        cbdesbrLss                          T
2Uo  11      1         0)                   6(!4LD            9292DOO      5        3   740CXD        1460  00000D6  8DOOO   1 Z
20ID 14156     764424D0000                 7644240000         7S330        77415 D                    163 3D OOD  1   5    0
Sas _      25316   1361D64DODD                 13670640000        168255       133740 000  1640700        33300000     181290 000  24
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/1993                      4    Education Specialist, Textbook     S             S
Specialist, Vocational Training
Specialist, School mapping and
statistical data base specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/1994                      4    Education Specialist,              S             S
Operations Analyst,
Communications Specialist,
Economist
Supervision
(see 4c below)               5   Education Specialist,              S             S
Operations Analyst,
Communications Specialist,
Economist, School
construction and renovation
specialist, grant specialist.
ICR
5/2002                      2     Education Specialist              S             S
Implementation Specialist          S            S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               36.2                        93.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                    25.1                        48.6
Supervision                              60.4                       513.6
ICR                                      15.0                        28.5
Total                                   136.7                       683.9
(c) History of Project Supervision
- 24 -



Date of      Month/Year   Number of Number of      Specialized Staff skills  Participated
Supervision                    days      Persons          Presented          in Previous
Missions
Supervision 1      12/1996        10          2      Education Specialists        Yes
Supervision 2      2/1997         8          2       Education Specialists        Yes
Supervision 3      3/1997         5           3      Education Specialists,       Yes
Operations Officer
Supervision 4      9/1997         10          1      Education Specialists,       Yes
grant specialist
Supervision 5       11/98         7          2       Economist,, Operations       No*
Analyst
Supervision 6       12/99         7          2       Education Specialists,       Yes
School construction and
__________ ________ renovation specialist,
Supervision 7      4/2000         8                  Economist                    Yes
Supervision 8      10/2001       21           3      Education Specialists,       Yes
Economist
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      * N   O NA
LI Sector Policies                      O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
l Physical                              OH   OSU*M      O N   O NA
Eli Financial                           O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
LII Institutional Development           0 H  * SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
OI Environmental                        OH   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
Ol Gender                         OH   OSUOM      O N   O NA
LI Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
LI Public sector management             0 H  O SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
LI Other (Please speci[y)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS OLU OHU
FII Supervision                                    O HS * S     O U   O HU
FII Overall                                        OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU    O HU
Ol Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance               O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Ol Overall                                         OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
LES ETUDES
ETUDES                             ACTIVITES                         RESULTATS
1. Rapport de recherche sur      Prise de mesures pour reduire les  Un projet d'acte
1'efficacite interne de l'universite de  redoublements.            officiel est en
Conakry, de Kankan et de l'Institut                                e1aboration pour
Superieur des Sciences de                                          supprimer la bourse
l'Education de Guinee (Maneah).                                    des redoublants.
2. Rapport de l'enquete sur l'efficacite Reprofilage des programmes pour les  Plusieurs programmes
exteme des institutions        adapter au besoin du marche.      sont abandonnes et
universitaires de Guinee.                                        d'autres sont crees.
3. Evaluation des activites       Recensement des activites generatrices  Les institutions
remuneratrices pour le         de revenus et leur reglementation.  commencent a maitriser
recouvrement des cofits dans les                                 et comptabiliser les
institutions d'enseignement                                      ressources propres d'oii
superieur.                                                       un accroissement de
leurs budgets.
4. Evaluation de programmes et    Reprofilage des programmes en fonction Les entreprises minieres
produits de formation de l'Institut  des besoins du marche avec les  ont commence a investir
Superieur des Mines et Geologie  entreprises minieres .          dan l'ISMG pour
(ISMG) de Boke                                                   ameliorer la qualite.
5. Le cadre juridique et administratif de Concertations.             Renforcement de
I'Enseignement Superieur en                                      I'autonomie des
Guinee.                                                          universites.
6. Le developpement des capacites  Restructuration de la Direction.  Les structures sont plus
institutionnelles de la Direction  Formation appropriee des cadres.  conformes aux missions.
Nationale de l'Enseignement
Superieur.                                                       Les cadres ont acquis
des comp6tences.
7. Gestion du personnel academique des Installation du fichier informatise du  Le fichier installe a
institutions d'enseignement    personnel.                        l'universite de Conakry
superieur.                     Formation du personnel de gestion.  et au Ministere pour un
depart est utilise et
permet de mieux
connaitre la situation du
personnel.
8. Rationalisation et developpement des Concertations sur la reduction des  La part des transferts
services sociaux universitaires en  transferts sociaux.          sociaux a et diminu6e
Republique de Guinee                                             avec la privatisation de
la restructuration
universitaires.
9. Mission de preparation d'une   Programmation d'un manuel de       Les gestionnaires ont ete
assistance technique pour le    procedure et formation des gestionnaires. formes et ils ont produit
developpement des procedures de                                    un manuel mis en
programmation, d'execution et de                                   application.
suivi budgetaire
- 28 -



10. Rapport d'6valuation de la gestion  Utilisation de l'etude pour elaborer le  Pdi elabore par un
administrative, scientifique, financiere Pdi.                        groupe de petites
et mise en ceuvre d'un mecanisme                                     institutions de recherche
d'autofinancement du Centre d'Etudes                                  pour se mettre en reseau
et de Recherche sur les Petits                                        de travail.
Animaux (CERPA).
11. Evaluation de la gestion       Concertation sur la restructuration .  Le Pdi est elabore.
administrative, scientifique,   Elaboration du Pdi.
financiere et mise en ceuvre d'un
mecanisme d'autofinancement du
centre de Recherche Scientifique de
Conakry-Rogbane (CERSCOR).
12. Etude sur l'Institut de Recherche et Concertation et elaboration d'un plan de Le plan de
de Linguistique Appliquee (IRLA), developpement                     developpement est
version provisoire;                                                 labore, la
restructuration est
pr6vue.
13. Un systeme d'information       Elaboration d'un Pdi des services de  Le Pdi est elabore.
documentaire pour la Guinee.    documentation restructuration.      La restructuration par la
L'evaluation et le developpement                                    mise en reseau aura lieu
des services de bibliotheques                                       dans l'EPT.
universitaires et de centres de
recherche scientifique de Guinee.
14. Evaluation de la situation des  Formation des etudiants A l'esprit  Pres de 50 enseignants
dipl6mes sans emploi a la recherche d'entreprise.                   formes pour donner des
du travail salarie et/ou                                            cours sur l'esprit
d'auto-emploi.                                                      d'entreprises.
15. Evaluation des programmes et   Reprofilage des programmes.         Les programmes ont ete
produits de l'Institut Agronomique Elaboration d'un Pdi.            partiellement renoves.
et V&erinaire (ISAV) de Faranah.                                    Le Pdi est redige.
16. Rapport de l'audit des universit6s et Corrections des faiblesses constatees.  Redaction d'un manuel
des instituts superieurs 2000                                       qui est applique,
amelioration de la
gestion.
17. Etude sur les activit6s generatrices  Reglement et comptabilisation des  Debut de la maitrise des
de revenus dans l'enseignement  ressources generees dans les institutions. sources de revenus.
sup6rieur et la recherche
scientifique 2001.
18. Etude sur les reformes de      Diffusion                           Les acteurs sont
I'enseignement superieur et de la                                 informms, disponibilite
recherche scientifiaue.                                           de l'etude.
19. Etude sur la gestion des    Concertations, elaboration de textes       Suppression du
bourses et l'amelioration de l'acces de reformes.                   concours d'acces.
A l'enseignement superieur 2001.                                           Projet de decret
pour amelioration des
bourses selon les
priorites.
Introduction de
- 29 -



la formation payante
pour les bacheliers non
boursiers de l'Etat.
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Project Status Reports: Table of Performance Ratings for PADES
1996-2001
iroject Siatus Reports_
PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Summary ati                                                              mponents
DO    ,IP  ICP funds Pmqt    Proc   F iin  I Legal  WiD  I b&E  Comp   Comp2   Comp
SqtO1 Dec 26S199s  HS     HSj      1      1     NR     N NRj    I     NR'    NR     NR      NR     NR
SeqJD L  n27,199S  HS      Sj      1      1|    NR1    NRi      2     NR|    NR     NR      NR     NR~
SeqtD3,Apr.24.'3'   S      S -SU          S      si    NR,      S     NR'    NR      S       S      S
sq04 Dec.0319'.7    U      U         r rU        s       S,     S              T !  '    U  '       S
Seqt 05JA, 24 9a    U      S              U      Si    NA;      S     *J9     Sr.    U       S      s
*SeqtDSDcc 1'I99S  U, '-U        S       si     s"    NP       s             s     u        s      s
,Seq t7 JUm is199  ' U.-i'tU   -',U       SI     51     NP-,!   U;    JR      5.,-,' ,U      S      51
- --  - 3'; 1<S5  5S  S,   ' _U      S      Si     A'A, *' !LU'  NR!     S       S      S 
S      S       Uj     S|     Sj    N_i      S      SR     S       S      S      S
Se1Oarg 10,2000     S      S      S-             S;    NRI      S      S,     S,     S              S
ISeoit10MNrv 1Q,2~00  S   S;     S,      S      SI    NRI      S      SI     S,     S       S.     S'
Seqt12{ec i8,2200   S      SR Si                 Si    NP       S      S      ;      S    _ S'     HS,
Seq 3 JU1.2S,2061  -       S      SS       S     S I   NRI      S      S                     S
SeQD14OcL 2I01    5      S;     Si      S      S;    NR!     S       S,     S      S       S      S
- 31 -



Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Report
Les problemes de l'ensei-nement superieur
Le sous-secteur de l'Enseignement superieur et de la Recherche scientifique se compose de cinq (5)
institutions d'enseignement superieur (IES), de dix (10) institutions de recherche scientifique (IRS) et de six
(6) centres de documentation specialisee. L'Universite de Conakry par sa taille et sa masse critique
d'enseignants et de chercheurs peut devenir egalement le point focal du reseau national des institutions
d'enseignement superieur et de recherche scientifique.
Avant la mise en place du PADES, les faiblesses du systeme d'enseignement superieur et de recherche
scientifique etaient nombreuses et variees. On pourrait citer, par exemple, les problemes suivants: (i) le
desequilibre entre les produits de l'enseignement superieur et les besoins du marche de l'emploi, (ii) le
desequilibre grandissant entre l'offre et la demande d'education face a une demande sociale sans cesse
croissante d'education, la capacite d'accueil des institutions d'enseignement superieur etait vite depassee,
(iii) la deterioration des infrastructures et le manque de materiels educatifs adequats etaient partout
manifestes.
La strat6gie du gouvernement
Apres avoir mesure l'ampleur des problemes, le Gouvemement a declenche un certain nombre d'activites en
matiere d'enseignement superieur et de recherche. La strategie a consiste a mettre en place immediatement
un processus de changement impliquant tous les acteurs du secteur.
Cette strategie elaboree dans la lettre de politique gouvemementale de 1'enseignement superieur et de la
recherche scientifique (de 19...) s'est articulee sur trois axes fondamentaux: (i) L'amelioration de
l'efficacite, (ii) I'amelioration de la qualite, (iii) I'amelioration de la pertinence.
Obiectifs aen6raux
La mise en place du projet d'appui au developpement de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique (PADES) repond au souci de renovation du systeme educatif en general et de l'enseignement
tertiaire en particulier. II s'agit d'apporter un soutien a la lettre de politique gouvemementale qui a declare
des finalites precises a savoir: (i) I'aboutissement a un systeme d'enseignement superieur et de recherche
scientifique reorganise et plus efficace, avec une plus grande autonomie institutionnelle, un meilleur
cofit-efficacite et une plus grande pertinence pour le developpement economique, (ii) I'amelioration de
F'acces et de l'equite, (iii) la reallocation judicieuse des ressources en faveur de la qualite de 1'enseignement.
L'atteinte de ces finalites devrait preparer le sous-secteur pour des investissements plus importants en
matiere de rehabilitation des infrastructures, d'amelioration des laboratoires et equipements didactiques, de
revision des programmes, des filieres et de formation des formateurs.
Les composantes du projet
Objectifs generaux      Objectifs detailles            Activites - Strategie            Resultats attendu
Reorganisation      - Elaborer une reforme         - Etudes et analyses sur les    - Une reforme educatib
institutionnelle    sectorielle de                differents aspects du secteur;   elaboree en matiere
- 32 -



1'enseignement superieur et   - Formation visant              d'enseignement superi
de la recherche scientifique  I'acquisition des capacites A   et de recherche
axee sur les principes de     elaborer des politiques         scientifique, largemen
decentralisation, de          educatives, des procedures      acceptee dans la
responsabilisation et de      d'evaluation des programmes;    population et prete A e
transparence,                 - Elaboration d'une reforme     mise en euvre.
du secteur de l'enseignement
- Assurer une promotion          superieur et de la recherche
suffisante pour reunir le        scientifique.
consensus le plus large possible
en vue de sa mise en cuvre.
Systeme            - Renforcer la capacite du    - Former du personnel (au ministere et - Un personnel forme A L
d'information et de  ministere et des institutions a  ans les institutions) A la collecte, A  I'analyse des donnees, ai
communication      collecter, A analyser et A     'analyse et A la diffusion des donnees diffusion de l'inforrnatio:
disseminer l'information;                                      secteur, A l'utilisation de
- Desenclaver les institutions,  - Installer un reseau Intemet  informatique dans l'acco
ameliorer et renforcer le systeme - Installer une base des donnees  des taches;
de communication inter         lectroniques ainsi qu'un reseau
institutionnelle: celle entre les  Intemet.                     - Un reseau de communi,
services centraux du ministere et                               Intemet installe et foncti(
les institutions et celle au niveau
intemational.
Programmation et   - Ameliorer et renforcer (au  - Organiser, A l'intention des    - Des gestionnaires fman
suivi budgetaire   ministere et dans les institutions)  estionnaires du ministere (de la  competents (au ministere
les capacit6s de planification et de DAAF) et ceux des institutions  institutions) formes (ou t
gestion financiere,            'enseignement superieur et de    planification et A la gesti,
- Arneliorer des ressources et le recherche scientifique, des sessions de A l'allocation des ressoun
controle budgetaire.          formation.                        contr6le budgetaire ainsi
l'utilisation de l'outil inf,
leurs fonctions.
La reorganisadon des composantes
Depuis sa mise en ceuvre effective en decembre 1996 jusqu'en decembre 1997, le PADES a fonctionne
selon ces trois grandes composantes susmentionnees. Mais, avec le temps, les activites ont evolue.
Progressivement, les interventions du projet se sont precisees et diversifiees. En decembre 1997, pour plus
d'efficacite les trois composantes initiales ont et decomposees en huit sous-composantes plus precises.
(voir figure I en annexe 1) .
Le coikt estimatif du projet et son plan de financement
Le couit total du projet est estime A 7,4 millions de dollars US, droits et taxes compris. La contribution
totale de la Banque, equivalente A 6,6 millions de $US, couvre 100 % des cofits en devises et 91 % des
couits en monnaie locale, droits et taxes exclus. Le gouvernement contribuera pour l'equivalent de 800.000
$US ou 9 % du cofit total du projet, dont 300.000 $US decaissables et 500.000 $US non decaissables
(representant les droits et taxes).
- 33 -



La gestion du projet
L'evolution du personnel se presente comme suit du lancement du projet en 1997 a 2001
Annee         Fonction publique      Contractuel   Total
1997          6                      5             1 1
1998          7                      5             12
1999          2                      7             9
2000          2                      6             8
2001          2                      6             8
Le Secretariat Technique du PADES est place sous le suivi de deux comites: (1) un comite de pilotage
(CP-PADES) qui examine et oriente les plans d'action du PADES, veille a leur application correcte ; (2) un
comite interministeriel de suivi, qui oriente et appuie les activites du comite de pilotage et en assure le suivi.
Le comite de pilotage etait cense se reunir tous les trois mois, le comite interministeriel de suivi tous les six
mois.
Sur le terrain, au niveau institutionnel, fonctionnent des cellules de reflexion et de suivi (CRS) du PADES.
Elles ont comme mission: (1) de reflechir sur des voies et moyens permettant l'e1aboration d'une strategie
de developpement de l'institution; (2) de participer a la mise en ceuvre de cette strategie ; (3) d'aider a
l'identification et a l'elaboration des projets viables en relation avec les differentes composantes du PADES
; (4) de veiller a la bonne execution des activites retenues et d'en assurer le suivi. La figure qui se trouve a
la page suivante presente l'organigramme du PADES. (voir figure 2 en annexe 2).
Execution du projet
Au titre de la rdoreanisation institutionnelle
Etudes et concertations
Dans le cadre de 1'execution du Projet, des mandats ont et donnes a des experts designes par le
gouvernement afin de mener des etudes thematiques. Les resultats de ces etudes ont contribue a mieux
definir les refomnes. C'est ainsi que les differentes etudes menees par des consultants nationaux et
intemationaux ont porte sur les multiples aspects de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique. Au total 20 etudes ont ete realisees. ( voir annexe 3).
En plus, des voyages d'etudes ont ete organises en Afrique (Senegal, Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Ouganda,
Maroc, Tunisie et Afrique du Sud), en Europe (France et Russie), et en Amerique du Nord (Canada et Etats
Unis d'Amerique).
Les recommandations des etudes et des voyages d'etudes ont e  discutees et validees au cours des joumres
de concertation sur l'enseignement superieur et la recherche scientifique dans les institutions et au niveau
national. Ceci a cree une situation d'appropriation des mesures de reformes. Toutes les composantes du
sous-secteur ont et impliquees dans la conception et l'elaboration des reformes. La mise en application des
recornmandations a recu un appui du PADES. Des resultats probants ont et obtenus dont les plus
importants sont presentes ci-dessous.
- 34 -



Plans de developpement institutionnel
Au total 11 plans de developpement institutionnel ont ete elabores et un plan de developpement strategique
du Ministere. Ce dernier reprend A son compte des actions transversales visant la gouvemance, la qualite et
la pertinence dans le sous-secteur. La mise en ceuvre des plans fait l'objet d'une attention constante. C'est
ainsi qu'ont ete crees les Comites de mise en ceuvre dans les institutions et une commission d'animation et
de supervision au niveau ministeriel.
Privatisation de la restauration universitaire et mesures subsequentes
Dans l'ensemble des I.E.S., l'on a procede en 1999 A une redistribution de l'enveloppe budgetaire tout en
supprimant la ligne restauration. Cette reforme a et6 implantee sans probleme majeur. La moyenne de
depenses en alimentation par etudiant 6tait estimee A 54.000 FG. La reforme a prevu que la bourse
d'entretien soit majoree de 20.000 FG passant ainsi de 40.000 FG A 60.000 FG. Le montant ainsi recupere,
soit 34.000 FG par etudiant, est a1 accroitre le financement des activites liees A la qualite de
l'enseignement.
Reformes des programmes deformation
Conformement A l'esprit du PADES en tant qu'accompagnement des efforts de changements, le projet a
apporte des appuis multiformes aux initiatives de reformes des programmes. Ces soutiens ont ete manifestes
sous les formes d'etudes realisees sur l'efficacite inteme et exteme sur les programmes institutionnels et
d'enseignement, le fmancement des activites de formation pratique en renovation de programmes et
d'61aboration de nouveaux programmes et des seminaires de validation.
L'appui aux initiatives de reprofilage des programmes a porte egalement sur la preparation en vue de
l'implantation de mecanismes d'evaluation et d'accr6ditation des programmes d'etudes et des
etablissements. La Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement Superieur en rapport avec le PADES a elabore
un manuel de procedures de contr6le de la pertinence et de la qualite des programmes d'etudes
universitaires qui a ete valide par les enseignants.
Maiftrise des effectifs d'edtudiants. diversification des voies d'acces
Le concours d'acces a servi de moyen de maitrise des effectifs (voir en annexe 4) Afin de surmonter les
limites de ce moyen, le PADES a servi de cadre de reflexion et de concertation pour l'amnelioration de
l'acces sans au pourtant sacrifier la qualite. Des etudes et des concertations ont et6 menees aboutissant A un
certain nombre d'initiatives: (i) la rationalisation de l'utilisation des transferts sociaux, (ii) l'introduction
de la formation initiale payante pour les bacheliers, (iii) l'ouverture des universites de proximite dans les
regions de l'interieur.
Systdmatisation de laformation des etudiants en esprit d'entreprise et creation d'emploi a fait partie
des dispositifs de reformes des enseignements par les institutions et a beneficie d'un appui du PADES en
formation des formateurs et en support didactique.
Rialisation deformations
Le renforcement des capacites de gestion du systeme a e  realise par des formations en Guinee et A
1'etranger touchant pres de 800 cadres au total . Les seminaires nationaux ont touche 770 cadres alors que
les formations A l'etranger de 28 cadres ont ete effectuees.
- 35 -



Le Fonds de recherche pour 1'enseignant et le chercheur (FREC)
Le FREC a finance 33 micros projets de recherche posant ainsi les jalons d'un systeme de financement et de
gestion de la recherche qui implique les procedures, les instances de decisions et les organes de suivi
evaluation. Les objectifs poursuivis par le fonds de recherche sont : (i) ameliorer la capacite des
institutions publiques et privees de recherche A repondre aux besoins de developpement national, (ii)
renforcer les mecanismes transparents d'evaluation et l'efficacite des procedures d'allocation basees sur
l'obligation de resultats .
Au titre du systeme d'information et de communication
L 'informatisation a e renforcee par l'equipement de differents services de I'administration centrale et des
institutions ainsi que par des formations dispensees aux utilisateurs. Pres de 50 micro-ordinateurs ont et
acquis au profit de differents services: les services de statistiques et de planification, les cellules de
reflexion et de suivi du PADES dans les institutions, les structures administratives est financieres des
IESAIRS et la cellule de la pedagogie universitaire.
En matiere de publication, le projet s'est dote d'un journal d'information, l'INFO PADES qui parait chaque
trimestre. Cette initiative a rapproche le projet des beneficiaires. Ces demiers ont eu l'opportunite de donner
des informations sur les activites au sein de leurs institutions.
L 'acces a l'internet.
Pour appuyer de la reforme et le developpement de l'enseignement sup6rieur et de la recherche scientifique,
la mise en ceuvre d'un reseau d'information et de communication fiable pour desenclaver les institutions de
l'enseignement superieur, les centres de recherche scientifique, les centres de documentation et les services
centraux du ministbre de tutelle a fait l'objet d'une etude avant son installation. Une micro- station
Terrienne(V-SAT) de derniere technologie a ete installee A l'universite de Conakry pour donner un acces
Internet en toute independance aux institutions beneficiaires.
Au titre de I'amelioration de la programmation budgetaire de l'execution et du suivi
Le PADES mis A la disposition des services financiers des micro-ordinateurs (7) pour completer les
equipements existants. Plusieurs formations locales ont ete programmees, notamment des cours en
informatique de base (Excel, Word, Access), de 40 heures pour une trentaine de participants, ainsi que le
renforcement des fornations sur site, en comptabilite et en gestion. Une commission d'audit inteme a ete
creee et un voyage d'6tudes A l'Universite du Quebec A Montreal (UQAM) a e  effectue par 12
gestionnaires pour un mois. L'une des principales activites du projet en matiere de gestion financiere a ete
aussi la realisation de l'audit des I.E.S. realise en Decembre 2000 et Janvier 2001. Le suivi s'est
materialise par l'elaboration d'un plan d'action des mesures correctives et d'un manuel de procedures de
gestion financiere, materielle et humaine des institutions qui sont dejA mis en application.
Les Indicateurs de Performance
Les indicateurs de performance permettent de mesurer les impacts des reformes sur differents aspects du
systeme de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche scientifique. Ils ont ete constamment ameliores
durant l'execution du projet grace A des mesures de rationalisation de la gestion des ressources humaines et
financieres. L'element qui a le plus agit positivement sur les indicateurs financiers demeure la reforme des
- 36 -



bourses avec la suppression de la subvention A l'alimentation des etudiants concomitamment avec un
certain rehaussement des taux de la subvention aux etudiants mais garantissant la realisation des
economies. De surcroit I'accroissement du nombre d'etudiants a ete contr6le et maitrisM par le
Gouvemement qui determine le quota des admissions A 1'enseignement superieur. L'evolution des
indicateurs de perfomiances est presentee dans les tableaux suivis de quelques commentaires (en annexe 5).
Execution financiere du projet
Phase de preparation du projet
La phase preparatoire du projet PADES a d6marre officiellement le 10 septembre 1993, apres que la
Banque Mondiale ait consenti une facilite de preparation de projet (PPF) d'un montant de 250 000 $US. Ce
PPF a e renouvele A deux reprises en octobre 1994 et aouit 1995 avant de parvenir a un niveau satisfaisant
de preparation du projet, portant l'avance preparatoire A 640 000 $US. Ce retard est dui A une inexperience
du Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur en matiere de preparation de projet de d6veloppement notamment
avec la Banque Mondiale dont c'etait la premiere experience dans ce secteur en Afrique francophone.
Demarrage du projet
L'accord de credit a e signe le 28 fevrier 1996 pour un montant de 4 500 000 DTS (evalu6s A I'epoque A
6 600 000 dollars US). nI a et mis en vigueur le 25 octobre 1996 et l'atelier de lancement du Projet s'est
tenu le 17 decembre 1996 pour un demarrage des activites en janvier 1997.
Decaissements au titre du projet
Les decaissements ont ete relativement faibles au cours de la premiere phase du projet. Ils se sont acceleres
apres la revue A mi - parcours suite aux dispositions prises pour la relance du projet. En effet, alors qu'A la
revue A mi-parcours du projet on etait A seulement 31,48% de taux de decaissement du projet, l'on est passe
a 47,68% des l'annee suivante (1999) et A 97,62% en fin 2001. Les decaissements moyens annuels ont
double A la periode 1996 / 1998 par rapport a la periode 1999 / 2001, en passant de 10,49% en moyenne
par an A 22,04%.
n1 y a eu un bon suivi des decaissements pendant la duree de vie du projet. Le nombre moyen annuel de
demandes de retrait de fonds expedi6es est de 7, ce qui temoigne d'un suivi assidu du projet par le bailleur
de fonds. Le nombre total de demandes de retrait de fonds adressees au bailleur de fonds est de 42 dont 29
(soit 69%) sont des demandes de realimentation du compte special et 13 (soit 31%/6) sont des demandes de
paiement direct.
La plus grande difficulte rencontree est la chute du cours du DTS (monnaie du credit) par rapport au dollar
(monnaie de decaissement). II est important de souligner que de janvier 1997 A aouit 2001, le cours du DTS
par rapport au dollar americain a chute de 1,41957 A 1,26234 soit une depreciation de 11,08%. Par rapport
au cours retenu pour l'6valuation du projet (soit 1,46666 dollars pour I DTS), la depr6ciation est de
13,93%. La perte de change cumulee sur les decaissements de la periode de janvier 1997 a decembre 2001
pourrait atteindre 600 000 dollars am6ricains.
En realite, le projet a dure 3 ans pour la preparation et 5 ans pour l'execution, c'est A dire 8 ans au lieu de 4
ans et demi. La consequence est que les equipements on couite plus cher parce qu'il a fallu renouveler le
parc automobile (140 000 dollars au lieu de 47 100 dollars) et le parc informatique qui a ete frappe
d'obsolescence. Les coiuts de fonctionnement qui comportent une partie fixe comnme les salaires du
- 37 -



personnel ont e payes pour une periode plus longue alors que les couits d'entretien des inimobilisations
plus vieillies se sont alourdis avec la duree d'utilisation. 11 importe donc A l'avenir d'organiser un systeme
de management du projet, placant les beneficiaires au centre des activites relatives A leurs institutions. La
relance des decaissements observee de 1999 A 2001 est en grande partie liee A la forte implication des
institutions dans la conduite des activites.
Gestion desfonds de contrepartie
La premiere difficulte a reside dans la mise en place tardive des fonds de contrepartie. Alors que les fonds
sont dus pour chaque annee fiscale en debut de periode, la contrepartie est mobilisee dans les meilleurs cas
A la fin du premier semestre.
La deuxieme difficulte reside dans la mise A disposition partielle des fonds prbvus et l'insuffisance de
l'enveloppe globale pour la contrepartie du projet. Comme cela apparait dans le tableau ci - apres, pour les
exercices 2000 et 2001, 89 et 67% des fonds respectivement ont ete mis A la disposition du projet.
Les lecons A tirer sont que en cours de negociation de projet, I'Etat doit bien evaluer la hauteur des
engagements qu'il doit prendre dans le financement des projets. Dans le projet PADES, la participation de
l'Etat guineen se situe a 12% du fmancement total, ce qui est eleve par rapport aux autres projets des
secteurs sociaux finances par ce bailleur (environ 3%).
Passation des marches
La mise en place d'une unite de passation de marches dans le projet a et difficile tant pour des raisons de
structure du personnel de projet que pour des raisons de retention de personnel. Les specialistes de
passation de marches sont rares sur le marche de travail et il importe de pratiquer un systeme de
remuneration motivant pour les retenir.
Personnel du projet
Le dimensionnement de l'unite de gestion du projet a fait l'objet de nombreuses discussions au cours de la
duree de vie du projet. A l'origine il y avait dans le projet beaucoup de personnel de supervision et moins de
personnel technique. Cette tendance a ete renversee au cours de la revue A mi - parcours tenue A Conakry
en 1999, en reduisant le personnel cadre de la fonction publique de 7 a 2 cadres (Coordonnateur et
Comptable du Projet). En contrepartie, I'unite de gestion a e  renforcee de deux jeunes professionnels
charges de la comptabilite et de la passation des marches. Cette pratique a ete heureuse parce qu'elle a
permis avec un personnel reduit de relancer les activites du projet et d'atteindre au mieux ses objectifs.
L'adaptation des postes aux besoins du projet et la contractualisation des emplois sont deux mesures qui se
sont averees benefiques pour l'execution des activites du Projet.
Informatisation de la gestionfinanciere
La principale difficulte rencontree dans l'installation du systeme informatise de gestion est que le processus
pour atteindre un niveau satisfaisant de fonctionnalite du logiciel a et long. Le niveau de fonctionnalite
satisfaisant n'a e atteint qu'en mars 1998 avec la version DOS de TOMPRO qui, de surcroit, a et
reamenagee en 1999 afm de pouvoir franchir le cap de l'an 2000.
La lecon qu'on en tire est que l'informatisation doit etre conduite sur le site du projet, au cours de la
premiere annee avec un mecanisme de suivi permettant un reajustement des fonctionnalites du logiciel pour
s'assurer que les etats sont porteurs de l'information souhaitee par l'emprunteur, le bailleur et l'auditeur.
- 38 -



Audits et supervisions
I1 est important de noter qu'en dehors de la premiere annee du projet 1997 pendant laquelle I'audit du PPF
(1993/1996) a et conduit avant l'execution de l'audit de 1'exercice en cours, les rapports d'audit du projet
ont ete toujours remis A temps, c'est A dire avant la date contractuelle du 30 juin de l'ann6e suivante avec
des conclusions positives. Le processus iteratif entre I'auditeur et l'unite de gestion du projet a permis de
resoudre progressivement les principaux problemes de gestion.
L'une des lecons qu'on tire est qu'en plus du manuel de procedures du projet, il peut s'averer necessaire de
confectionner des manuels specifiques pour certaines composantes comme, dans le PADES, un manuel
pour le Fonds de Recherche pour Enseignants et Chercheurs (FREC).
Pour l'aspect supervision, et pour s'assurer que les procedures intemes definies sont suivies, le Ministere
doit se doter d'une unite d'audit inteme et se donner les moyens de la rendre fonctionnelle.
Gesdon du FREC
Le suivi financier des activites du FREC s'est revele etre une tache fastidieuse. Les pieces A decompter
pour 33 projets de recherche sont de l'ordre de un millier avec une grande difficulte de juger de la
pertinence de la d6pense par rapport au contenu du projet. La communication avec les chercheurs et le suivi
financier de leurs etudes sont rendus difficiles avec leur dispersion et la grande variete de leurs domaines
d'intervention.
La principale lecon A tirer de l'administration de ce fonds est que le suivi des projets de recherche est une
activite A plein temps qui demande la mobilisation des ressources (materielles et humaines) appropriees.
Pour reduire le nombre d'interlocuteurs, il serait utile de passer A des programmes de recherche au lieu de
projets qui porteront sur des financements plus importants, mais moins disperses et peut etre A retomb6e
scientifique accrue.
Inventaires
Les entretiens et reparations du materiel acquis dans le cadre du projet posent des problemes de prise en
charge par les services beneficiaires qui continuent de solliciter les services du projet pour les entretiens
courants. L'appropriation par les services de ce materiel suppose leur aptitude A assurer les entretiens
courants et reparations, ce qui ne nous a pas semble acquis vu les nombreuses sollicitations adressees au
projet. Cela pose le probleme de leur utilisation efficace apres la vie du projet. Un effort doit etre consenti
pour expliquer aux cadres des services beneficiaires de mat6riels et equipements acquis dans le cadre des
projets que ces equipements font partie integrante de leur patrimoine. Quelque soit la source qui a finance
leur materiel, ils en assument la propriete et les charges de gestion leur en incombe pleinement.
Ceci est surtout important au regard de l'investissement realise au titre des reseaux informatique et
telephonique implant6s par le projet pour les institutions d'enseignement sup6rieur pour une valeur du
marche de base de 1 798 550,57 dollars americains. Sans un esprit d'appropriation, ces investissements
risquent d'etre perdus dans un avenir relativement court.
Les faiblesses du projet
Les faiblesses constatees au niveau des etudes et de l'utilisation de competences nationales et etrangeres
avant 1999 sont: (i) le choix des consultants a ete fait par le ST/PADES A l'insu de l'avis de beneficiaires,
- 39 -



(ii) la prograrnunation des etudes n'a pas ete harnonisee avec le calendrier d'activites des institutions, (iii)
les competences locales n'ont pas e  utilisees par les consultants intemationaux, ce qui a cause des pertes
d'information pertinentes et des reflexions contradictoires par rapport aux resultats des etudes, (iv) le
manque de diffusion et d'utilisation des resultats des etudes pour faciliter les changements dans les
processus pedagogiques, administratifs et de la gestion.
Les raisons des faiblesses constatees dans le fonctionnement des Cellules de Reflexion et de Suivi (CRS)
sont: (i) la non representativite de toutes les principales composantes de l'institution au sein de la CRS.
(ii) Des categories aussi importantes que les etudiants et les gestionnaires des ressources financieres etaient
absentes, (iii) la perception des autorites des institutions selon laquelle la Cellule du PADES serait un
appendice de l'unite de gestion du projet et dependrait que de celle-ci en matiere de dotation en moyens de
travail. Ce qui a conduit A une certaine marginalisation rendant difficile la realisation des plans d'action de
la cellule, (iv) les cellules n'ont pas su developper leur capacite de communication et d'information A
l'interieur de leurs institutions ; ce qui, par ricochet, a reduit leur visibilite et leur positionnement
institutionnel.
La realisation de la mise en place du volet telecommunications A souffert d'un retard de l'annee 1996 A
2000 A cause (i) du manque d'attention du ST/PADES par rapport A la composante qui a ete mis en
veilleuse au profit de la composante reorganisation institutionnelle qui a beneficie d'une grande partie des
apports, (ii) de l'incapacite du service national de telecommunication de fournir l'infrastructure de base
demandee par l'universite pour assurer sa connexion sur l'Intemet.
Les raisons de la difficulte dans l'amelioration de la gestion financiere des IES/IRS sont: (i) les
responsables de la gestion financiere n'avaient pas ete sensibilises sur les liens entre la reussite des reformes
et l'amelioration du systeme comptable et budgetaire en cours. L'argument du respect de regles de la
gestion publique, a ete utilise pour contrecarrer l'introduction des procedures beaucoup plus performantes
et en accord avec l'autonomie institutionnelle. Pour plusieurs gestionnaires les changements proposes
cr6eraient des autonomies avec les procedures recommandees par le Ministere des finances, principal
bailleur de fonds des subventions octroyes aux universites, (ii) un systeme de contr6le des resultats de la
gestion n'a pas fonctionne correctement pour detecter les faiblesses et inciter A leurs corrections.
1. L'atteinte des obiectifs
Malgr6 le retard mis dans l'accomplissement des activites, le projet a atteint les principaux objectifs
assignes avec un certain succes. Quoique les realisations materielles soient importantes dans le sens du
renforcement des capacites, ce sont les reformes concues et executees entierement ou partiellement qui
representent les acquis majeurs du projet. Le PADES a soutenu les demarches du Ministere et des
Institutions dans la recherche des voies et moyens pour aboutir A la prise des decisions sur les mutations
dans le sous-secteur. A travers les etudes et les concertations plusieurs sujets jadis o tabou o ont ete
explores et cemes, A savoir la question des bourses, I'assainissement de la gestion financiere, l'utilisation
optimale du personnel enseignant.
De surcroit, le PADES a accompagne les efforts de mise en ceuvre des reformes par l'appui des campagnes
d'information, l'organisation des formations et des apports materiels indispensables A la realisation des
activites.
2. ParticiDation et durabilite
Le PADES a ete bati sur les principes de la participation et de l'appropriation par les beneficiaires. En
-40 -



effet, il est ne du besoin du gouvemement guin6en de poursuivre la renovation du systeme educatif en tant
que prolongement des changements en cours dans les niveaux primaire et secondaire d'une part et
l'approfondissement des reformes de l'enseignement superieur d'autre part.
Chaque institution beneficiaire a identifie les besoins prioritaires et determine les actions A mener dans les
quatre annees du projet. Des concertations ont e  menees au niveau institutionnel pour valider les plans
d'action et au niveau central pour l'harmonisation et la rnise en commun.
L'un des atouts du PADES est d'avoir cultiv6 l'esprit de remise en cause et la predisposition aux
changements necessaires. Le facteur essentiel de la durabilite des acquis du PADES est l'appropriation des
mesures de reformes et des realisations mat6rielles du projet par les beneficiaires. En rendant les acteurs
conscients de la n6cessite d'ameliorer le systeme d'enseignement superieur et de la recherche, le PADES a
ainsi cree un momentum qui est soutenu par un dynanfisme genere au sein du systeme lui meme.
La perception du projet qu'avaient les beneficiaires a beaucoup evolue d'une consideration du projet
comme << un corps etranger> vers une appropriation veritable des objectifs, facteur de participation active.
Les points forts et faibles du partenaire
Les points forts sont: (i) L'acceptation par l'IDA de prospecter les possibilit6s de financement de
l'enseignement superieur en Guinee malgre le fait que ce sous-secteur de l'education n'attire pas beaucoup
le bailleurs de fonds, (ii) L'amelioration de la qualite des conseils pour impulser le projet A partir de 1998,
lorsque la supervision de l'IDA de concert avec le gouvemement, a participe efficacement A la meilleure
definition des reformes a entreprendre et a concede une plus grande liberte de manceuvres au gouvemement
dans le cadre des plans d'action, (iii) L'organisation des video-conf6rences assez frequentes qui ont perniis
de favoriser les echanges mutuels et de mieux orienter les activit6s du projet.
4. L'autorisation de la prorogation de la date de cloture d'une annee pour permettre au Gouvernement
d'achever les objectifs du projet
Les points faibles sont: (i) Dans le design du projet il existe une disproportion dans l'allocution budgetaire
entre la composante r6organisation institutionnelle et la composante information et communication soit 3,6
millions US$ contre 2.0 millions US $.Les couits de cette composante ont ete minimises, (ii) Les missions de
supervision sur le terrain ont ete assez distantes, pres d'une annee entre deux missions A partir de 1999,
malgre la tenue de video conferences chaque fois que de besoins, (ii) Les attentes des b6neficiaires en
matiere d'amelioration des conditions materielles des apprentissages n'ont pas ete suffisamment prises en
compte dans la conception du projet. Le caractere de projet de pre-investissement n'est pas adapte lorsque
les principaux beneficiaires ressentent des besoins importants. Aussi la dur6e initiale d'un projet pareil de
quatre ans pour l'execution du projet qui a d'allusion demarre difficilement et a connu une prorogation,
parait etre longue.
-41 -






S E'N ES AL               12                                  G U I N E A        80
,__-  --------r       S-TK                 gou         HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
12|     I S S A U                                                                            ako                   12-
I   /o-                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 0X N\ N E 
Ik ; Mf UI NEIMG
Kankan                          r
0                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,
100 ATLANTIC                                                                                                    100:;N  --XS  SIERRA LEO
O C E AN19  ConaIlry,     -) 4g        PAVED ROADS
F;esotioh</ ,   ROuTEs PAVEES    \XX5> 5ZSf                       h   - 
0    20  A0  60  80  100 120  Beni4      ROUTES PRATICABLES PAR TOUS TEMPS
SENEGAL T                        ;  c.PIALtjta C4'iLt                       W   RESt        w- 
THE     I          AI   LI            -  RAE.IIR~OADS  REIOgCPIAL
GAt4BIP   ..  (_KIMIFT EMIN                   DE ER NISTERES RESIDENTS
*           .,                    0  FiEFETUE (OIUt :TALS  , - /g ____
IGUINEA     - | F'Xg             111otj C-E| t'ECDTURIES               3/                   C)      E     8
,  -, _  R^     _-           -    _.0PAIN: rs   l.0TH  REGION BOUNDARIES  ' grkt,> 2*oa   22         ~  4
conoltr-u*  ,'   I   s '4       ii'lre -F L-'t'- .1,rNTERES RESIDENTS  ~   fJ         7   '    D'I V01 R E 
SIERRALE:ONE S -                -  -  iLrJiI, LBOUNDARIES 4  FEUVES
j                   I-h .'tj~~~ijiii~ IIN ERNATIONALEARPR
' .-   ',   Dl'wt.IRE   Jw                      J         r        AS   /   l   \E RhI L_IS 
L~~E~rA,, FrF.b.. ~   , . 3t.:,... :.-'j. any ; te .;. Jormot,oo OrmI LI B E R I A  9 V \ .\ 
ATL4rJrlc   ttiERIM  .         . 1  ,-   i..Te , I ::' .n.  'r ,t o;f The W r orld BNnkNGrou.P ,  R t  I ERE
o r e A  z  G@U GlGu.nerzl ;. J. -e .O., :1. h t :,.: *.; .   e. .toy or an  noremn
OHEC EANEA        PA  LI                :a P**p'rAL E









IMAGING
Report No.:        24374
Type:     ICR



