Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2787 GUI
                        Development Credit Agreement
                (Higher Education Management Support Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 28, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2787 GUI
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 28, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B) The Association has received a letter, dated September
26, 1995, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to implement the Borrower's
strategy in its higher education sector (hereinafter referred
to as the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of such Program.
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b) The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
      "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a) "MESRSC" means the Borrower's Ministere de
l'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche Scientifique et de la
Culture;
      (b) "Project Steering Committee" and "PSC" means the
Project Steering Committee established by MESRSC on February
23, 1994;
      (c) "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual
outlining the procurement, disbursement and other
implementation arrangements for the Project adopted by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d) "Internet" means the international electronic mailing
network;
      (e) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 10, 1994,
October 20, 1994, December 23, 1994, August 28, 1995, and
September 7, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association; and
       (f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
Page  3
commercial bank acceptable to the  Association and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to the Association the amount required to repay
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September
1 commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
September 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
Page  4
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) Not later than December 31, 1997, the
Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a
comprehensive midterm review to assess the progress achieved in
the execution of the Project. Without limitation upon the
generality of the foregoing, the review shall cover the
implementation and management aspects of the Project, including
policy reforms, the performance and use of technical assistance
personnel, the role of national counterpart staff, the status
and results of training, reporting, accounting and audit
performance, disbursement and procurement procedures, and the
overall sustainability of the Project.
      (b) Not later than thirty days (30) days prior to said
midterm review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, a report in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in implementing the various components of the
Project, and draft action plan containing proposals for
remedying any identified deficiencies.
      (c) The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter: (i) prepare
and adopt an action plan, acceptable to the Association, based
on the recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review,
Page  5
and (ii)  thereafter, carry out said action plan for the
remainder of the Project implementation period.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
      (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
            (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than six
                    months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have
                    reasonably requested; and
            (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                    information concerning said records, accounts
                    and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                    from time to time reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
            (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit report for
                    the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                    from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                    Special Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures;
            (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                    to examine such records; and
            (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
Page  6
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a) the Borrower has established within MESRSC: (i) a
management information system, and (ii) a computerized
accounting system (including appropriate arrangements for
internal auditing) all satisfactory to the Association;
      (b) the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation
Manual acceptable to the Association;
      (c) the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the
Association, for its review and comments, draft procurement
documents, acceptable to the Association, for all contracts to
be awarded, during the first Project Year, pursuant to the
provisions of Part B of Section I of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and
      (d) the Borrower has employed the independent auditors
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association, including a
contract period of at least three years.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O.B. 579
            Conakry
            Guinea
Page  7
                                            Telex:
                                            22399 MIFIN
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                    INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                    By /s/ Frederic Bangoura
                                                  Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
      1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                              Amount of the
                                 Credit              % of
                                Allocated        Expenditures
                              (Expressed in          to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1) Equipment,                   700,000       100% of foreign
    Vehicles and                               expenditures and
    Furniture                                  75% of local
                                               expenditures
(2) Consultants'               2,620,000       100%
    Services and
    Training
(3) Operating Costs              340,000       80%
Page  8
(4) Refunding of                 450,000       Amounts due
    Project                                    pursuant to
    Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                  390,000
                               _________
      TOTAL                    4,500,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c) the term "operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures incurred for the implementation of the Project for
contractual staff salaries, transportation costs and
subsistence allowances for travel related to the execution of
the Project, office rent, office supplies and communications,
office equipment and vehicles operation, maintenance, insurance
and repair, and utilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for: (a) goods and training under contracts
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (b) consultants§
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for
consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent for individual
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to reorganize and
streamline the Borrower's higher education and research system
with a view to: (a) enhancing MESRSC§s capacity to formulate
policies geared to promoting a system of higher education and
research most suited to the developmental needs of the
Borrower§s economy; and (b) granting increased managerial
autonomy to individual institutions of higher learning and
scientific research.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Institutional Reorganization
1.    Preparation and implementation of a comprehensive
development plan for the Borrower's higher education and
research sector.
2.    Promotion of decentralization and operational autonomy of
higher education and research institutions, including the
carrying out of in-depth analysis of: (a) the role, functions
and organization of MESRSC; (b) relations between MESRSC and
Page  9
higher education and research institutions; and (c) university
governance, organization, finance, management, female
enrollment and participation in decision-making, student
services, and user fees.
Part B:     Information and Communication System
      Development and implementation of an information and
communication system for the higher education sector,
including: (a) strengthening of MESRSC's data collection,
analysis and dissemination capacities; (b) development of
information systems linking higher education institutions and
research centers, including provision of radio communications
equipment; and (c) upgrading of communications systems through
the installation of: (i) a telephone system for the campus of
the University of Conakry, (ii) a radio communications systems
for higher education and scientific research institutions and
MESRSC, and (iii) an electronic data communication system,
including electronic mailing through Internet.
Part C:     Financial Management
      Strengthening the capacity of MESRSC and of individual
institutions of higher learning and scientific research to
prepare adequate budget proposals, participate efficiently in
the budget negotiation process and to manage in a responsible
and satisfactory manner all budgetary allocations appropriated
for their respective institutions.
                                    * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Section 1 of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of the Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Shopping
      Vehicles and office equipment estimated to cost $70,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  10
2.    Procurement from UN Agencies
      Computer equipment, materials and supplies estimated to
cost $70,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be
procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office or
other UN procurement agencies in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
3.    Direct Contracting
      Goods and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of
$600,000 in the aggregate may, with the Association§s prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify
bidding to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association, and in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
Page  11
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                           Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall:  (a) maintain the Project Steering
Committee (PSC) and the Project Monitoring Committee (PMC)
throughout the implementation of the Project with membership,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association;
and (b) and thereafter maintain a Project Coordinator with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The PSC shall be responsible for the overall coordination
of the Project implementation. Under the supervision of the
PSC, the Project Coordinator shall be in charge of the day-to-
day implementation of the Project and shall be assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications
and experience which shall be at all times satisfactory to the
Association.
3.    The PMC shall: (a) ensure that the sectoral policy defined
under the Program remains fully consistent with other national
priorities for economic and social development; (b) carry out
any interministerial coordination activities required to ensure
the diligent execution of the Project; and (c) prepare and
organize the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.03 of the
Agreement.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out
in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, subject
to such modifications as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association from time to time.
5.    The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 1996,
submit to the Association a report satisfactory to the
Association detailing all measures taken and actually
implemented to reduce the burden of overtime payments for
teaching assignments on the budget of institutions of higher
learning by at least 40 percent of their current level for each
year commencing with the academic year 1995-1996.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
Page  12
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                   shall have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
Page  13
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
