~~~~oiwt of ,5C 6 r,
DOfb
The World Bank
MOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 6049-M02   Types (PR)                        ReportNo.P-6049-MOZ
Title:  LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENI
Author: ROBOTHAM, K
Ext.:34489 Room:Jr 1139 Dept.:AF6IN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIENT OF TM
INTRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE    CUTIE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDII OF
SDR 16.4 MIIIION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FlOR A
LOCAL GOVERNMET REFORM ANID ENGINEERING PROJECT
May 23, 1993
This document as  sticted distribution and may be uad by recipients only in the performaune of
their offial duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOURIALEITS
Currency Unit = Metical (plural Meticals [MtslA
US$1   2910 Meticais
(As of January 1, 1993)
ISCAL XAR
Goetmet f mazambiq
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CEC                     City Executive Council (Conselho Executivo da Cidade)
CG                      Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Group
CNA                     National Commission for the Environment (Commissao Nacional do Meio
Amblente)
CNP                     National Planning Commission (Comissao Nacional do Plano)
COM                     Council of Ministers
DNA                     National Water Department (Direccao Nacional de Aguas)
DNAL            =       National Director for Local Government Administration (Direccao
Nacional da Administracao Local)
ERP             =       Economic Recovery Program
ESRP                    Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
FINNIDA                 Finnish International Development Agency
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GOM                     Govermnent of Mozambique
IDA             =       lnternational Development Association
iMC                     Inter-Ministerial Committee
INPF                    National Institute for Physical Planning (Instituto Nacional de Planeamento
Fisico)
LCB                     Local Competitive Bidding
LSG                     Local Support Group
LG                      Local Government
MAE                     Ministry of State Administration (Ministero da Administracao Estatal)
MCA                     Ministry of Construction and Water (Ministerio da Construcao e Aguas)
MDP                     Municipal Development Program
MOF             5       Ministry of Finance
MOJ                     Ministr,y of Justice
MOL                     Ministry of Local Government
MT                      Meticais
NGO             =       Non Governmental Organization
PROL            =       Local Agencies Refonn Progran (Programa de Reforma dos Orgaos
Locals)
SIDA/ASDI               Swedish International Development Authority
SOE                     Statement of Expenditures
TSU                     Technical Support Unit
WG                      Working Group



FOR OMCAL4 USE ONLY
REUJBLIC OF MOZAMBIOUE
LOCAL fGOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borfower:                          Republic of Mozanmbique
Beneficiaries:                     Ministries of State Administration (MAE),
Construction and Water (MCA), National Commission
for 'he Environment (CNA), and five project cities:
Maputo, Beira, Pemba, Quelimane, and Nampula
Credit Amount:                     SDR 16.4 million (US$23.2 million
equivalent)
Terms:                             Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Millions
IDA                    US$23.2
Government              US$1.3
Total                   US$24.5
Economic Rate of Return:           Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:            None
:-M.                               IBRD No. 24610
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. [ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.    I submit the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed credit to the Republic
of Mozambique in the amount of SDR 16.4 million (US$23.2 million equivalent) for approval. The
proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity, including 10 years grace, to
assist with the financing of the Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL).
2.    Country and Sector Background: Mozambique, with an annual per capita income estimated
at US$70, is one of the poorest countries in the world. Its problems have been exacerbated by a
seventeen year period of civil war. Beginning just after independence in 1975, the war uprooted people,
devastated almeady poor infrastructure, and further weakened declining institutions. For the first twelve
yc>rs following Independence, per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fell continuously. To reverse
this decline, the Government of Mozambique (GOM), with IDA assistant., introduced two reform
initiatives. The first, the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), was adopted in January 1987 and sought
to promote macroeconomic and fiscal stability, and establish appropriate growth incentives. It was
followed by the Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP) of 1989-90 which pursued the same
economic objectives but brought a greater focus on poverty alleviation and distribution of benefits. In
support of ERP and ESRP, IDA began assisting GOM to rehabilitate basic urban infrastructure and
services in Maputo and Beira through the on-going and successful Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation
project (PRU, Cr. 1949-MOZ). Further support for infrastructure rehabilitation and/or capacity building
is being provided through the following IDA-financed projects: Roads and Coastal Shipping (Cr. 2374-
MOZ), Maputo Corridor Revitalization (Cr. 2454-MOZ), Capacity Building (Cr. 2436-MOZ), Legal and
Public Sector (Cr. 2437-MOZ), Rural Rehabilitation (Cr. No. 2479-MOZ), and Food Security Capacity
Building (Cr. 2487-MOZ).
3.    The impact of the prolonged civil war and the deteriorating economy has been particularly severe
on the urban areas, with a significant proportion of the rural population having fled to the cities. As a
result, the urban population nearly doubled between 1965 and 1991, increasing by close to two million
people and currently comprising 26% of the total population of 15 million people - a growth rate
estimated at almost 8% per annum. Three cities-Maputo/Matola (the capital city), Beira, and Nampula-
dominate, but many cities, towns and villages have doubled and tripled in size in less than two decades.
This rapid urbanization has placed a tremendous burden on urban institutions, infrastructure and services.
Slums and illegal squatter settlements now represent a major part of the urban landscape, and are
anticipated to continue to grow despite the advent of peace. The extensive urban service deficiencies that
have resulted include badly deteriorated roads and inadequate supplies of potable water, poor drainage
and domestic sanitation resulting in widespread water-borne diseases (child mortality is 200 per thousand
largely due to diarrheal diseases and malnutrition). Until quite recently, liquid and solid waste
management has been neglected: only 28% of waste is collected in Beira, and in Maputo and Matola
industrial liquid wastes are generally channeled through municipal sewerage systems into Maputo Bay.
More than 70% of the urban population depend on fuelwood and charcoal to meet basic energy
requirements, resulting in substantial urban and peri-urban deforestation, and the denuding of mangrove
near coastal cities. Finally, the lack of land information and the limited resources of local authorities
nake it difficult to plan or manage growth. Current cadastral records are outdated (pre-independence)
and usually only available for the inner city, and land titles are not adequately registered.



-2 -
4.    The inability of the local government system to effectiveiy respond to the service demands placed
on it is exacerbated by a highly centralized structure in which the heads of each level cf sub-national
government are appointed by the center. The Ministry of State Administration (MAE) has a special role
vis-a-vis sub-national governments. It is responsible for developing local administration, appointing all
directors, and generally overseeing public employment and performance of local authorities.
Deconcentrated national offices are nominally responsible to the appropriate level of sub-national
government. However, sub-national entities lack both technical capacity and independent sources of
financing. As a result, decision making most often flows from the national levels offices to the local
government. Fiscally, cities are heavily dependent on the national budget for between 40% and 60% of
their recurrent expenditures; capital expenditures are almost entirely funded by transfers from the Central
Government. Transfers, generally, are determined through an unpredictable budget process which makes
local planning difficult; and they are calculated on a basis which provides little incentive for efficiency
or local resource mobilization. These problems are all aggravated by the pervasive shortage of educated
and trained Mozambicans, especially in the public sector, and weak incentive systems. Consequently,
the present, highly centralized adtrinistrative system is ineffective, inefficient, and unsustainable.
Moreover, the direct costs to the economy of the poorly functioning urban infrastructure systems,
combined with the loss of assets resulting from their accelerating deterioration, are substantial and
increasingly becoming an impediment to economic reforms.
5.    With the prospect of peace, Mozambique is preparing to embark on an ambitious program of
national reconstruction. In the context of decentralizatiors, which GOM considers a key element of its
reform strategy, the government attaches great urgency to the local government reform program, seeing
it as a possible means of contributing to cementing the peace and building a sound political, economic,
and institutional foundation for the future. As an indication of GOM's commitment, a new Constitution
has been promulgated (November 1990); a hierarchical c:assification of cities and administrative
jurisdictions has been established; the Minister of MAE has been given the responsibility for leading the
reform process; and five important cities (Maputo, Beira, Pemba, Quelimane, and Nampula) have been
designated as special cities for reform. In pursuing the reform program, MAE established a number of
inter-ministerial working groups and held a successful and widely attended workshop in November 1991,
out of which the decision to proceed with the program of municipal reform evolved. An equally
successful follow-up worksihop was held in April 1993, and MAE and the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA) have recently agreed to study the possibility of extending the reforms to
include five districts, i.e., rural local governments, located in close proximity to the designated cities.
With these initiatives, GOM is setting the stage to begin formulating urban policies and a program for
their implementation, with the assistance of IDA, which addresses the following: (i) the rationalization
of the structure of local government and the establishment of a legal framework for assigning
responsibilities and functions among the different tiers of government; (ii) the devolution of responsibility
and accountability to urban local authorities for the planning, supply, operation and maintenance of
iniastructure and services; and (iii) the strengthening of the financial independence and viability of urban
councils, including the substitution of local for central government funding.
6.    Project Objectives. The overall objective of the project is to support GOM's decentralization
program by assisting with its municipal reform and capacity building initiatives. The reforms will be
focussed on the legal, institutional and fiscal framework of local government in order to create a suijable
structure for self-sufficient and accountable local authorities, and will be implemented on a pilot basis in
five urban areas designated as the project cities. Complementary objectives include assisting GOM to:
create an appropriate policy framework for investments in the urban sector; prepare urban investment
plans for the five project '.ities, including plans for the efficient management, rehabilitation, and financing
of essential urban infrastructure and services; test specific, replicable approaches to solving entrenched
urban problems (including absorption of rural migrants, environmental degradation, low cost



-3 -
transportation); and coordinate the work of donor agencies, multilateral and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) in the urban/local government sector.
7.    ProJect Description. The project will finance technical assistance and studies, and will provide
for the selective implementation of the findings of these studies, including some modest pilot investments
in the five project cities, which include Maputo, Beira, Pemba, Quelimane and Nampula. The project
comprises the following components: (a) Legal and Institutional Reform (US$1.3 milihon; 5% of total
project costs), which includes: (i) reviewing the present legal, functional and administrative framework
of local government; and (ii) formulating and implementing an efficient institutional reform program to
improve the capacity of municipalities to plan, manage and maintain efficient urban infrastructure and
services; (b) Fiscal. Finandal and Organizational Reform (US$2.3 million; 9% of total costs), which
includes: (i) evaluating the present fiscal, financial and organizational performance of local government
including: inter-governmental responsibilities for financial management; inter-governmental fiscal
transfers; existing and potential sources of revenues; experience with and constraints to revenue
generation; the efficiency and equity of existing and alternative revenue instruments and pricing policies,
the efficiency of existing org&lizational and staffing arrangements; (ii) designing an action plan for
effective implementation of recommended financial and organizational reforms; and (iii) ensuring
coordination of these reforms with those proposed for the legal and institutional aspects of local
government; (c) Urban/Environmental Management (US7.8 million; 32% of total costs), which
includes: (i) formulating affordable, high priority, demand-based municipal development programs
(MDPs) for each of the project cities; and (ii) in order to test cost effective approaches to urban and
environmental management, formulating and implementing replicable pilot sub-projects in individual
cities, as follows: upgrading in Pemba; enviromnental rehabilitation in Nampula; non-motorized (bicycle)
transport in Beira; land information systems in Maputo; and mapping in all five cities; and (d) Capacity
Building, Institutional Support and Project Managment (US$13.1 million; 54% of total project
costs), which includes incremental operating costs and the provision of vehicles and equipment, and
covers institutional support and technical assistance: (i) to MAE for providing advisory services, process
consultation and training for the implementation of the recommendations of the institutional and fiscal
reform programs at the central provincial and local authority levels; (ii) to the Technical Support Unit
(TSU) in MAE for project administration, coordination, monitoring and reporting; and (iii) to the
Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA) for incremental staffing of and maintaining HABITAR, an
existing project management unit.
8.    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$24.5 million, with a foreign exchange componen'
of about US$14.2 million (58%). A breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Due to serious domestic resource constraints, the Governmnent contribution to the project
would be limited to US$1.3 million (about 5% of the total costs), with IDA financing US$23.2 million
(95% of total project costs). Amounts and methods of procurement, and the categories and schedule of
disbursements are shown in Schedule B. In order to facilitate disbursements and ensure timely provision
of funds, the Government will establish a Special Account in the amount of US$1.0 million.
Disbursements are expected to take place over a period of four years. To ensure the timely availability
of local counterpart funds, GOM will also open and maintain a Project Account in local currency in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA for GOM's share of local project financing.
GOM will make an initial deposit in local currency equivalent of US$60,000 into the Project Account,
and will replenish the account every four months. A timetable of key processing events is shown in
Schedule C. The status of Bank Group operations in Mozambique is presented in Schedule D. Further
details on the project components and financing arrangements are provided in the technical annex which
includes the project monitoring indicators, implementation schedule and the supervision plan. A map
(IBRD No. 24610) is also attached.



-4 -
9.    Project Implementation. Overall policy guidance and coordination will be provided by an Inter-
Ministerial Committee (IMC) chaired by the Minister of MAE. Establishment of the IMC was a
condition of Board presentation. Ir.p!ementation of the project will be the responsibility of MAE,
assisted by three Working Groups (WGs) which have already been established (WOI: Legal and
Institutional; WGII: Fiscal and Financial; WGIII: Urban/Environmental Management). In order to ensure
effective linkages between the work of each of the WGs, an inter-ministerial Coordinating Group (CG)
has also being established and is chaired by the National Director for Local Government Administration
(DNAL) in MAE. The CG includes representatives from the Ministries of Finance (MOF), Justice
(MOQ), MCA, the National Commission for the Environment (CNA), the National Institute for Physical
Planning (INPF) and the Executive Councils (CECs) of the five project cities. Day to day operations,
monitoring of the work programs of the implementing agencies, and reporting on progress, will be
facilitated by the TSU under the leadership of a Project Director who will report to the DNAL. Due to
the specialized requirements of the MDPs and the pilot sub-projects, HABITAR an existing unit, w,U
assume prinrary responsibility on behalf of MAE, for assisting the cities in the preparation and
implementation of these sub-components. The establishment and adequate staffing of the TSU and
HABITAR are conditions of effectiveness.
10.   Each prolect city will be required to enter into an Implementation Agreement with MAE in order
to be eligible for technical support, training, vehicles and equipment, and pilot sub-project workls under
the project (para 15). This Implementation Agreement will describe the measures that project cities will
undertake to implement the proposed legal, institutional and fiscal reforms, to prepare and then adopt a
satisfactory MDP and to prepare and implement pilot sub-projects. The signing of the Agreements
between MAE and each city is a condition of effectiveness. CNA will have special prs,aratory and
oversight responsibilities for the Nampula enviromnental pilot sub-project and will liaise closely with
HABITAR for this purpose.  The non-motorized transport pilot sub-component in Beira will be
i3mplemented by an NGO selected on the basis of competitive procedures acceptable to IDA. In order
to ensure effective local coordination, Local Support Groups (LSGs) will be jointly established by MAE,
MCA, CNA, INPF and the respective CEC in each of the project cities.
11.   A set of project monitoring indicators were developed, discussed and agreed. Training and
process consultation programs have also been designed for implementation at all levels and at strategic
times during the project so that project objectives are understood, accepted, and, where necessary,
appropriately modified in consultation with the Association. The implementation arrangements,
monitoring indicators, and training and process consultatior. programs were discussed at negotiations.
12.   Project Sustainability. The decentralization and local government reform program which this
project supports is an important part of GOM's strategy for public sector reform, including building
capacity at the local level, improving participation and governance, and increasing urban efficiency.
Government is therefore strongly committed to the project and has presented a letter of local government
sector policy to IDA reflecting this commitment. Receipt by IDA of the signed Letter of Sector Policy
was a condition of Board presentation. Given that institutional capacity in Mozambique is severely
constrained, and in order for the restructuring exercise to be sustainable, this project is designed to: (i)
identify the constraints as they apply to the local government system; (ii) assess the capacity of the system
to absorb institutional reforms; and (iii) propose a program of restructuring that is consistent with the rate
at which the reforms could be introduced. The project is thus limited primarily to the technical assistance
and training needed to design the institutional strengthening program and to develop capacity to
implement and maintain the reforms. Investments are held to small pilot sub-projects intended to test the
effectiveness of the capacity building initiatives. To further facilitate sustainability, particularly wit)i
reference to appropriate incentive structures, administrative reforms under the project, including
compensation systems for local as well as central government personnel, would be closely coordinated



-5-
with GOM's overall administrative and compensation reforms, including the transitional incentive fund
program sponsored by the donor community.
13.   Lessons Learned from  Previous Bank/IDA Involvenent.  The experience gained in
implementing the Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation project (para i) and recent Bank sector work have
confirmed that local government reform is essential for promoting urban efficiency and building
sustainable urban instiuional and infrastructural capacity. Other lessons from Bank Group experience
with similar initiatives are that: (i) a prerequisite for success of reform programs is the commitment of
all of the major stakeholders; (ii) careful timing and phasing are important factors in project success; (iii)
strengthening local governments requires reform of central-local government fiscal relationships in ways
which bring responsibility for and authority over municipal services closer to the end users of the
services, increasing the accountability of local governments to their constituencies and taking into account
local political realities and interests; (iv) success in implementing the recommendations of consultants is
enhanced by project objectives that are consistent with goverment policies and concers, and by close
involvement of the government and key agencies in project design; and (v) training is essenial, but is
likely to be more effeve when training responsibilities are clearly allocated, needs are well defined,
adequate resources are provided, the program balances the need for specific on-the-job training with
focussed, short-term, off-site, practical and academic training, and an incentive and institutional
framework is established that rewards performance. These factrs have been taken into account in the
design of the project.
14.   Rationale for 1DA Involvement.  Government sees the project as a key element in its
decentralization and public sector management reform program, its fiscal and budgetary performance
improvement objectives, and its focus on poverty reduction, all important aspects of ESRP. These are
also key themes in IDA's country assistance strategy which the project supports through such initiatives
as: improving institutional capacity to manage urban infrastructure assets to complement similar changes
in the national networks under ESRP; reducing the need for central government resource transfers to local
government by introducing more effective local revenue sources and improved local financial
management; and developing priority investment programs targeted on the urban poor. In addition to
its linkages to the country assistance strategy, the project is also coordinated with and complementary to
Bank projects being executed or planned in other sectors-particularly the Capacity Building, Legal and
Public Sector, and Rural Rehabilitation Projects (para 1)-as well as initiatives being undertaken by other
donors - particularly SIDA. In addition, IDA involvement would help ensure that the policy reforms
and subsequent investments proposed for the urban sector would be implemented efficiently, would
contribute to creating the confidence needed for cofinancing in the sector during the later investment
programs, and would safeguard environmental and social aspects.
15.   Agreements Reached.  During project appraisal, post-appraisal, and subsequent technical
discussions, understandings were reached on: implementation procedures at central, provincial and local
levels; terms of reference, arrangements and monitoring indicators for undertaking and managing
technical assistance, studies and training; and the training and process consultation program, including
criteria and mechanisms for evaluation. During ngotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(i) detailed reporting and monitoring arrangements, including progress monitoring indicators and annual
and mid-term implementation reviews (the latter to be carried out by September 30, 1995) to cover inter
alia progress achieved in the reform program and the proposed budgetary allocations for the next year
and measures taken to ensure timely provision of counterpart funds; (ii) the carrying out of agreed
recommendations arising out of the annual and mid-term reviews; (Oii) the preparation and
implementation, if necessary, of resettement plans in accordance with criteria, terms, and timetables
agreed with IIDA; (iv) auditing and procurement procedures, including the use of standard tUdding
documents, appropriately modified; (v) detailed institutional arrangements, including Inter ata the



-6-
satisfactory establishment, staffing and operation of the TSU and HAB1TAR; (vi) appointment of qualifled
local counterpart staff to work with and receive training from consultants; (vii) the timely implementation
and content of the Implementation Agreements to be entered into between MAE and the project cities,
and of the MDPs, for which preparation would be star.ed by January 31, 1995; (viii) the satisfactory
maintenance and replenishment every four mnonths of a Project Account to finance the Government's
project contribution; (ix) the taking of all necessary steps to start the legal and institutional reform no later
than June 30, 1994, and the financial reform no later than August 31, 1994; (x) by December 31, 1995,
agreement with IDA on a further program of action and updating oI the Letter of Sector Policy. The
following are conditions of effectiveness: (i) the establisnment of TSU, the designation of HABITAR
as a project agency, and the staffing of TSU and HABITAR on satisfactory terms (para 9); (ii) the signing
of satisfactory implementation agreements between MAE and the five project cities (para 10); (iii) the
contracting of independent auditors, on terms satisfactory to IDA (para 8); (iv) ti' initial deposit of
US$60,000 equivalent into the Project Account (para 8); and (v) the contracting of consultants for the
fiscal, financial and organizational reform  studies (para 7).  The following are conditions of
disbursement: (i) for all subproject works, if relocation of any households is necessary as a result of
sub-project investments, preparation of a. satisfactory resettlement plan (para 16); and (ii) for civil works
under each subproject, the submission of satisfactory evidence certifying GOM's legal ownership of the
land where civil works will be carried out (para 3).
16.   Environmental Aspects. The project is largely dedicated to teclnical assistance and training,
and aims, inter alia, to improve local government capability for environmental planning and
management. Three components have direct environmental improvement objectives. The Namnpula
environmental pilot sub-project specifically includes the development and dissemination of cost-effective
approaches to urban environmental management (deforestation, pollution and erosion), for subsequent
replication throughout the local government system. The Pemba urban upgrading pilot sub-project is
intended to improve environmental sanitation and services. The MDP, which will be undertaken for all
five cities, includes provisions for preparing environmental management programs. However, it is
possible that following completion of feasibility and design work under the Nampula and Pemba sub-
projects, the need for some resettlement may be identified. In such an event, the submission to IDA of
a satisfactory resettlement plan is a condition for disbursement on all works relating to sub-projects.
17.   Program Objective Categories. The project will support the Government's program to improve
public sector management, create an enabling environment for private sector development, and contribute
to poverty alleviation through employment creation by promoting labor-based construction techniques for
infrastructure works.
18.   Project Benefits. The reform of the local government system in the context of decentralization
is justified by its potential contributions at the macro level to national stability, more efficient resource
allocation and utilization, reduced fiscal expenditures; and improved public sector management. At the
sector level, the project would potentially cop-tibute to: enabling and facilitating essential urban
investment; improving urban efficiency and management capacity; promoting greater local resource
mobilization and cost recovery; improving urban infrastructure mraintenance; increasing accountability
for infrastructure service provision; and improving urban transportation and reducing transport costs.
19.   I:roject Risks. The political risks associated with this project include: the uncertain civil
climate; and the current status of political transition that may affect the ability of GOM to initiate
effective devolution of authority and resources to the local level. These risks, although still present, are
minimized by (i) the submission by GOM of a letter of local government sector policy, acceptable to
IDA, confirming the Government's strong commitment to the local government reform program; and (ii)
continuing sector and program dialogue between GOM and the Association focussed around an agreed



-7-
set of objectives. The policy risks include: the inability of the project cities to effectively discharge the
new responsibilities and utilize their new powers; and constraints to GOM and the local governments
concerned providing adequate incentives, training, and a suitable inttutional environment for the
effective execution of tas and the retention/reritment of the key staff required for successfiu project
implementation. These risks are minimized by (i) the provision of appropriate technical assistance; (ii)
the development of a program of legal, institutional and fiscal reform carefully calibrated to the absorptive
capacity of both central and local institutions; (iii) the development of a training and process consultation
program, reinforced by an agreed schedule and set of monitoring indicators; and (iv) the linkage of
funding for the project cities to the adoption of satisfactory implementation ageements. The operational
risks are primarlly: the budgetary consarais on GOM providing counterpart funding on a timely basis;
and institdional capacity limitations on managing the implementation of the project. These risks are
addressed by: (i) GOM committing adequate annual provisions in its capital and operating budget for the
timely financing of all key project staff and activities; ffi) limiting GOM's share of project costs to about
5%; (iii) requiring GOM to open and maintan a project accoun'  local currency; and (iv) GOM's
undertaking to adequately staff TSU and HABITAR as a condition oi _ifectiveness.
20.   RecoXmmndation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington D.C.
May 28, 1993
Attachments



Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIOUE
LOCAL GOVERNMRNT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
Estimated Costs and FEnancing Plan
A.    Estimated Costs: /                        Loaw     EQti     Total
(US$ million) hk
Legal and Institutional Retorms                  0.3        0.8    1.1
Fiscal and Financial Reforms                     0.2         1.7    1.9
Urban/Environmental Management
* Preparation of Municipal Development Plans   0.0         1.8    1.8
* Preparation & Implementatlon of Pilot Sub-Projects 2.3   2.4    4.7
Capacity Building, Institutional Support and
Project Management
Support to MAE
* Technical Advice and Support            1.0        1.1    2.1
* Training                                0.9        0.2    1.1
* Staff (TSU)                             0.6        0.0    0.6
* Project Administration (TSU)            2.1        0.5    2.6
Support to MCA (HABITAR) & CNA
* Staff (HABITAR/CNA)                   0.6        1.3    1.9
* Project Administration'               0.4        0.1    0.5
Vehicles and Equipment                      02          1.9        1
Base Cost:                                       8.6        11.8   20.4
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                      0.8         1.2    2.0
Price Contingencies                         09          1.2    2.1
Total Project Cost:              
B.  Financing Plan:                             Local   Foreign  Total
(US$ million)
IDA                                       9.0        14.2   23.2
Government                                 1.3        0.0    1.3
Total:                              1Q          s      X
1I Net of taxes and duties.
h/ Figures have been rounded.



-9-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIOUE
LOCAL GOVRNMENI EFORM AND ENGONEERIG PRO.ECT
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
A. Procurement
(US$ million) 1V
Procurement Method
Total
Project Elements                   ICB          LCB          Other        Cost b/
Studies and Audits                                            4.4          4.4
(4.4)       (4.4)
Consulting Services c-                                        8.6          8.6
8.6)        (8.6)
Training d/                                                   2.9          2.9
(2.9)       (2.9)
Works gI                                         1.2          0.5          1.7
(1.1)        (0.3)       (1.4)
Vehicles and Equipment              2.5                       0.7          3.2
(2.5)                    (0.6)        (3.1)
Incremental Operating Expenses f/                             3.7          3.7
(2.8)       (2.8)
Total:                              2.5           1.2         20.8        24.5
(2.5)        (1.1)       (19.6)      (23.2)
.A Figures have been rounded.
h/ IDA contribution shown in parenthesis.
g/ Includes cost of preparing resettlement plan & technical assistance to TSU and HABITAR;
excludes consulting services for training.
4/ Includes consulting services for training and training program delivery costs.
g/ Includes pilot sub-projects.
f/ Includes incremental expenses of project implementation including costs of process
consultation, beneficiary assessments, and general administrative expenses of TSU and PIU.



- 10 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBUC OF MOQZABIUE
LOCAL GOVER?MEN BEE=I AND ENGINEERRIGE PROJECT
B. Disbur-sments
Amount
of Credit         Percent of Expenditures
C"ategor                                              (5S$ million) /         to be Financed
1. Studies and Audis                                    4.4               100% of expenditures
2. Consulting Services, Studies & Audits                6.7               100% of expenditues
3. Training                                             2.6               100% of expenditures
4. Pilot Subproject Works                               1.3               100% of foreign expenditues
70% of local expenditur
5. Vehicles, Equipment, Spares & Supples b/             2.8               100% of foregn expenditures
70% of local expenditures
6. Incremental Operating Expenses                       2.5               100% of foreign expenditures
70% of local expenditures
7. Services, Prepartion of Resetment Plan S/            0.1               100% of expenditures
8. Project Prpartion Advance (PPF)                      0.8               Amount due
9. UnaUocated 
TOTAL CREDIT AMOUNT:                                 j
Estmated IDA Disbursentsis  Y
24        95        296       97        98
Annual                                          1.7       2.9       5.2        9.9       3.5
Cumulative                                      1.7       4.6       9.8       19.7      23.2
8./   Figures have been rounded.
k/    Required by oentral agences (MAM, MCA, CNA) and project cities for underking sdies, trainig and project admini.,
and for inplementing reforms at local level.
I/    Servces for the prepartion of reselement plans for fmilies who could be affected by the impkmentaion of pilot sub-
project works.
jI   lwcluding US$1.0 iniial deposit into the Speial Account.



Schedule C
RIU    DE MOZAMBIOUE
LOALG OVE 63 o REFYORM AND ENGINEEIAN PRQJEC
Timetable ofKe Loan Pr-ocessing Eyent
Time taken to prepare:                   Seven months
Prepared by:                             Ministries of State Administration (MAE),
Construction and Water (MCA), with IDA
assistance.,
First IDA mission:                       November, 1991
Appraisal Mission Departure:             June 8, 1992, Post-Appraisal
October 30, 1992
Date of Negotiations:                    May 4, 1993
Planned Date of Effectiveness:           October 1, 1993
* This Draft Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) was prepared on the basis of a
post-appraisal mission that visited Mozambique in November, 1992. The mission consistd of
Messrs.lMmes. K. Robotham (Mission Leader), H. Garzon (Public Finance Specialist), M. Lara-
Resende (Ecological Planner), J. Fitz Ford (Sr. Urban Economist), C. Mdaka (Urban Planner), and L.
bcono (Sr. Staff Assistant). It is also based on the work of an appraisa mission that visited
Mozambique in June, 1992. That mission consisted of R. Chavez (Mission Leader), E. Echeverria
(Senior Enneer), M. Lara-Resende (Ecological Planner), H. Oarzon (Public Finance Specialist), J.
Wright (GIS Specialist), C. de Voest (Financial Analyst), V. Canas (Legal Specialist), K. Cuenco
(Urban Planmer), and M. Franssen (Land Information Specilist). The report was reviewed by
by two peer reviewers, Messrs. W. Dillinger (IWURD) and T. Campbell (LATAD). The Division
Chief is Ms. P. Pomerant, and the Director of the Department is Mr. S. Denning.



- 12 -
Schedule D
Page I of3
REPUBLTC OF MOZAMBIU
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGTNEERING PROECT
Status of Dank COmuc Onemtons in Mozambioue
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(as at Match 30. 1993)
Amount in USS million
Loan or Credit    hical year                                                                    (less cancellation)
No.                                    Borrower          Pupose                            Dank  IDA       Undis-       Cloahg
bured       Date
Credits
2 Crei clsed                                                                                      114.55
18060-MOZ         1987                 MOZAMBIQUE   ENERGY TA &                                   20.00       4.82      06/3011993
A0330.MOZ(S)      1988                 MOZAMBIQUE   REHABILITATION It                              18.60       .16      06/30/1991
19070.MOZ         1988                 MOZAMBIQUE   EDUCATION I                                   15.90       6.76      1231/1995
19490-MOZ         1989                 MOZAMBIQUE   URBAN REHABILITATION                          60.00      20.74      12131/1995
19890-MOZ         1989                 MOZAMBIQUE   HEALTH & NUTRITION                            27.00      23.13      123111994
20210-MOZ(S)      1989                 MOZAMBIQUE   REHABILITATION IN                              90.00      1.91      0t/3111993
20330MOZ          1989                 MOZAMBIQUE   HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CREDIT                       22.00       16.93     12131/1996
20650-MOZ         1990                 MOZAMBIQUE   TRANS. REH. (BEI. CORRlDOR)                   40.00      25.59      06/30/1996
2W"60MOZ          1990                 MOZAMBIQUE   ECON. & FIN. MANAGEMENT                       21.00      18.49      12/31/1997
20810-MOZ         1990                 MOZAMBIQUE   INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE                          50.10     51.40      12t3111997
20820-MOZ         1990                 MOZAMBIQUE   SMALL AND MEDUM-SCALE                          32.00     28.36      12/31/1996
21750.MOZ         1991                 MOZAMBIQUE   AGRI. REHAB. & DEV.                            15.40      13.97     06/3011999
22000-MOZ         1991                 MOZAMBIQUE   EDUCATION 1                                    53.70     51.30      0430/1997
23370-MOZ         1992                 MOZAMBIQUE   AGRI. SERVICES REHAB.                          35.00     34.53
23740.MOZ         1992                 MOZAMBIQUE   FIRST ROAD & COASTAL                           7430      68.75      06/30/1998
23840.MOZ(S)      1992                 MOZAMBIQUE   ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT                     .18000      116.85     06130/1995
24360MOZ          1993                 MOZAMBIQUE   CAPACITY BUILDING (HU)e                        48.60     47.33      06/30/1999
24370-MOZ         1993                 MOZAMBIQUE   LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC. e                        15.50      15.13     06130/1999
24540-MOZ         1993                 MOZAMBIQUE   MAPUTO CORRIDOR *                              9.30       9.16      12131/1998
24790-MOZ         1993                  MOZAMBIQUE   RURAL RESTRUCTURING '                         20.00     20.13      12/31/1998
24870.MOZ         1993                  MOZAMBIQUE   FOOD SECURrrY e                               6.30       630
TOTAL number                                                                                      8S4.70     581.74
of Cre  -I1t
TOTALV
of which repaid                                                                969.25
TOTAL held by IDA                                                              969.25
Amount sold
of which tepid
TOTAL Undisbuted                                                                           8.14
Notes:
e Not yet etective
Total Approved, Rpym , sad Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Los and Credits.
(R) indiae foally revisd Closig Date.
(s) indicats SALJSECAL Loan and Cits.
The Net Approved and Bdank Repayme  are historical value, afl others are market value.
The Signing. Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offcial data and a  not taken from the Task Budget Mie.



*13 -
Schedu  D
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MdOZAMBIOUE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGEERING PROJEcT
List of Closed S6Ls and SECALa in Mozambiaue
(as of March 30, 1993)
Loa or Ctedit   Fsca        Borrowe             Purpose                Amouat in USS million              Closinr
No.             Year                                                    (las cancellation)                Date
Bank            IDA          Undia-
bursed
C18410-MOZ    1988          MOZAMBIQUE          REHAB. 11                        69.89         .00        613011991(R)
Total Mozambique                                     69.89        .00
82&a*s on Imtemetfatim ssue
Moznbique'spottfollo of WAaupported pjects Is a relatively new one, with the first opeation dating to FY87. Although ptogres in implemenation has
been Ia genesa  ssatiactory, the performne of disbursements has been less so. For exampl, the first midter-m review for an invesnt project recently
showed tha while oiil wotks were about 2/3 complete, disbursements were only 35% of the projeoted estiats. A lage part of the problem has to do with the
fiact that while the govenme has moved quikly towrds a matket-based economy, govenmnt agencies and admisratlve procedures remain largdy
unchange. Thus, all IDA-suppoted projects were managed finanially by the centrl bank, Bank of Mozambique (BdM), which needs to be stengtheted. The
CI lat yest determined that this was the main bottleneck to imptoving disbursenents. The Bank has takun stps to decentalie the financial nmmangm  of
projects to the ipemnti   agencies through discusionas with BdM and conditions for the ongoing Economic Recovery Credit. Three operations are moving
slower than the aveage due to specific problems:
Ebonomic and FbtanWa Manaomment (FY90). Delays in disbursements tesulted from unfamiliaity of the implmeating unit with prourementprocedures
necesay for faidy lage consultant contracts and lots of equipment. A rent supevision mission has addresetd this problem and disbursements are expected to
improve soon.
Industrial EnterDie Restrecturin, (FY90). Delays in this project have had to do with processing of lage subloans for selected entetprises. The impltmnting
unit is in the Minitry of Fnane, and therefore delays encountered by other projects should not occur in this case. A number of applications have been apptoved
and disbrsetments are expectd to increase substan y in the next six months.
Small and Medium Scale Eteri (FY90). Again, the delays in this case are connected to up front processing of on lending applicadons for small scale
eprs.  About fouteen credit applications have been approved for about USS million equialent, and another 70 appliations are in the pipeline.
Disburmnts will show a significant inreaeu in the near termn.



* 14-
Schedule D
Papg 3 of 3
REPIBLIC OQE MZAMBIOUE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND NGNEE=ING PR0JECT
B. Statement of IFC InveStmentS
(a8 of April 30, 1993)
_nvegt            Fuscald                                                                 Lon      Equity      TOtal
Nu                xm                ObilirBusine                                                    us$ U idllion
864-MOZ          1927              LOMACO            Ag1i1buUanes                        2.5      .00         2.5
3157.MOZ          1993              POLANA HOTEL  Resaumt & Hatels                        3.5      .00         3.5
978-MOZ          1988              Xei Xai Oil       ChemicallPetroobemioul                        7.8        7.8
Total Ctos Commiments                                                                     6.0      7.8        13.8
Les: Caeltions, temnations,
exhaw adjusment. repayments,
wre.offs aad sales                                                                  1.5      7.8         93
Totad Commam held by IFC                                                                  4.5      0.0         4.5
Total Undibursed                                                                          3.S      0.0         3.5
Total D :bued                                                                              1.0     0.0         1.0



- 15 -
REPUBLIC Of MOZAMBIOUE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
Tabe of Contents
Page No.
SECTION A:    Detailed Project Description                                      16
SECTION B:    Project Costs, Financing, Procurement,                           23
Disbursement, Reporting and Agreements
Reached
SECTION C:    Project Organization, Monitoring Indicators,                     27
Implementation Schedule, Capacity Building,
User Demand Assessment, Letter of Sector Policy
Criteria for the Preparation of Resettlement Plans
Appendix A:     Organizational Arrangements                   28
Appendix B:     Project Monitoring Indicators                 31
Appendix C:     Implementation Schedule                       37
Appendix D:     Consultant's Matrix                           39
Appendix E:     Capacity Building: Process                    43
Consultation and Training
Appendix F:     User Demand Assessment Note                   46
Appendix G:     Letter of Sector Policy                       48
Appendix H:     Criteria for the Preparation                  52
of Resettlement Plans
SECTON D:    Supervision Plan                                                  53



- 16-
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
PRESIDENT FOR A LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PRROJECT
Section A: Detailed Project Description
I.    Sector Issues and Strategy
1.    Three issues have been identified from IDA project and sector work as requiring urgent attention
if infrastructure investments are to be sustained and the cities are to make an effective contribution to the
reconstruction effort: (a) increasing local institutional autonomy and capacity; (b) increasing fiscal and
financial management capacity; (c) improving urban infrastructure services delivery and maintenance, and
environmental management. These issues are interrelated and must thus be tackled together. The poor
state of Mozambique's urban infrastructure and the current degradation of urban environmental conditions
result in high economic and social costs, particularly affecting the poor. Institutional and legal
dysfunctions and limited technical skills and finances constrain effective responses to these conditions.
To increase the likelihood that services will be reliable and sustainable, they need to be tailored to the
effective demand of users, and to the maximum extent possible, financed from locally generated revenues.
The rate at which services may be expanded and improved also will be dependent on how service delivery
is organized and managed.
2.    The proposed Credit represents the first phase of a medium-term urban sector strategy which
envisages a carefully sequenced and prepared series of policy and institutional reforms followed by
investments geared to rebuilding basic u.-ban systems and services; making the cities efficient contributors
to reconstruction and economic development; raising their level of fiscal and institutional capacity,
accountability and responsiveness to the needs and priorities of the citizenry; and promoting to the fullest
extent possible private sector participation in the maintenance and delivery of urban services. The sector
strategy builds on the country strategy which aims, inter alia, to improve basic infrastuctural services and
public sector management, and to encourage private sector participation. It is also closely coordinated
with, and complementary, to projects being executed or planned in other sectors (particularly the Capacity
Building, Legal and Public Sector, and Rural Rehabilitation Projects), and initiatives being undertaken
by donors.
IL. Detailed Description of Project Components
3.    The proposed Credit will help finance: (a) Legal and Institutional Reform; (b) Fiscal, Financial
and Organizational Reform; (c) Urban/Environmental Management; and (d) Capacity Building,
Institutional Support, and Project Management. The project components are outlined below.



- 17-
4.    Legal and Institutional Reform.' The objectives of this component are to formulate and
implement an effective program of legal and institutional reform aimed at increasing the capacity of local
governments in Mozambique to efficiently plan, finance, manage and maintain municipal infrastructure
and services; and to implement and test the effectiveness of these reforms in the five designated project
cities: Maputo, Beira, Pemba, Quelimane, Nampula. Draft terms of reference for this work have been
prepared. This component includes:
(a)    Legislative and Administrative Reform: reviewing the existing legal and administrative
framework of local government; specifying the degree of authority and responsibility to
be given to central, provincial and local levels bearing in mind questions of efficiency,
equity, responsiveness and accountability; defining the technical units to be created or
restructured; drafting the legal framework for enabling the municipal reform process to
be introduced into the country as a whole; and drafting the specific laws required to
facilitate testing the reforms in the project cities; and
(b)    Training and Capacity Building: devising detailed training plans for, and efficiently
delivering, appropriate training to the key central, provincial and local groups involved
in the reform process; transmitting fundamental reform objectives and concepts; and
developing basic job-related skills.
It is estimated that one hundred and forty four (144) person months of consultant inputs would be
required.
5.    Filscal, Financial and Organizational Reform. The objectives of this component are to reform
the fiscal transfer system; facilitate appropriate local resource mobilization and cost recovery, particularly
for urban services; strengthen budgeting, accounting, and data processing systems and procedures; and
strengthen local financial, managerial and technical capacity. Draft terms of reference for this work have
been prepared. The sub-component includes the following:
(a)    Reforming the Fiscal Transfer System:  undertaking a comprehensive review of
existing systems and options, and devising and implementing more efficient, equitable,
transparent and predictable distributional criteria for central government revenue sharing
and fiscal transfers;
(b)    Mobilizing Local Resources: undertaking a comprehensive review of the major local
revenue sources and developing proposals for reform; establishing cost recovery
guidelines taking into account maximum cost recovery, affordability levels and income
differentials across urban and rural districts;
(c)    Flnancing Urban Services: reviewing the financial structure of public utilities and
services, and the current policy in tariff setting; determining the relationship between
tariff levels and corresponding operational and maintenance costs for specific services;
examining the guidelines for investment planning; establishing the relationship between
the utility authorities and representatives of the different levels of government, and with
Mozambique follows Portuguese tradition in which law and public administration are closely
associated.



- 18-
the CECs in particular; and reviewing the current experience with private sector
participation in the provision of urban services in order to determine the potential for
their greater involvement at the local level;
(d)    Strengthening Accounting, Budgeting, Financial Management and Data Systems:
improving accounting, budgeting, financial planning, treasury management, and internal
,ontrols; incorporating comprehensive capital accounts as an integral part of LG's general
budgets; upgrading the current reporting systems, including auditing and other control
mechanisms; and introducing efficient electronic data processing and management
information systems; and
(e)    Derining LG's New Functions, Staffing Requirements, and Training Programs:
defining administrative arrangements relating to functions, staffing and training needs;
developing and implementing effective programs of training for staff, encompassing
specific on-the-job training as well as residential training and, where relevant, overseas
study, but focussing on improving job-related skills.
It is estimated that a total of two hundred and six (206) person months of consultant services will be
required. The employment of consultants for this component on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
is a condition of effectiveness.
6.    Urban/Environmental Management and Development. The overall objective ofthis component
is to develop, test and institutionalize methodologies and programs for planning and managing urban areas
with special attention to addressing environmental issues. Draft terms of reference for this work have
been prepared. The sub-components include the following:
(a)    Municipal Development Programs (five project cities): preparing and implementing a
framework and methodology for planning, financing, and managing the development of
each of the five project cities, to be set out in the form of an MDP. The completion of
each MDP will include, inter alia: undertaking institutional development programs user
demand and environmental assessments; identifying and preparing investment programs
and plans for priority infrastructure service improvement, upgrading and expansion and
environmental rehabilitation and protection; and preparing preliminary ecological zoning
plans, engineering designs and cost estimates for the proposed, high priority
infrastructure improvements to a level of detail sufficient for technical, economic and
institutional appraisal. The preparation of a MDP by each project city is mandatory, and
cities would sign Implementation Agreements with GOM to that effect. The signing of
Implementation Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between MAE and the five project
cities is a condition of effectiveness.
(b)   Preparation and Implementation of Pilot Sub-Projects: In order to test appropriate
and cost effective approaches to urban and environmental management the following pilot
sub-projects are included: (i) Pemba Urban Upgrading: developing and supervising the
implementation of replicable, innovative and cost-effective methods for improving roads,
drains, water supply, land tenure, community participation and cost recovery; (ii)
Nampula Environmental Planning and Management: developing and implementing
replicable, innovative and cost-effective methods for reducing environmental degradation
(erosion, deforestation, and liquid and solid waste management), and documenting and



- 19 -
dissemating experience and methods to other municipalities; (iii) Beira Non-Motorized
(Bicycle) Transport: demonstrating the feai-bility of commercial bicycle assembly,
marketing and sales; (iv) Five Project Cities Rapid Mapping: implementng a cost-
effetive program of photo-mapping to provide accra  and timely information for
planning; (v) Maputo Land Information Systems: refonring land legisladon,
documentation and conveyancing practice; updating the legal cadastre; and introducing
street signage and uadressagev.
It is esimated that a total of about five hundred and fifty (550) person months of consultant services will
be required. No significant resettement is - nsidered likely. However, to the extent that relocation of
families may be required, this will only be determined on completion of the preparatory work, financed
under the credit, of the pilot sub-projects. As a safeguard, in the event that resetlement is required, the
preparation of a resettement plan acceptable to IDA for atl families who could be displaced by the
implementation of works was discussed and agreed at negotiations, and is a condition of disbursement
on all pilot sub-project works. The submission of evidence, satisfactory to IDA, that GOM is the legal
owner of the land on which pilot subproject works is to be executed is a condition of disbursment on
all works.
7.    Capadty Building, Institutional Support and Project Mangement. The objective of this
component is to assist MAE, MCA and the project cities to effectively implement the reform program.
It includes:
(a)    Techical Advice and Training: supporting MAE and the project cities in solving
problems in intetpretation, integration and uniform and effective application of the new
law and finncial and adminisutave reglations;
(b)   Technical Support Unit: supportig MAE in establishing and maintaining a TSU-a
secretariat for the project-including the employment of the key staff; and
(c)    HABfTAR: supporting MCA in maintaining and strengthening HABrTAR - a technical
unit established under the existing Bank-supported Urban Rehabilitation I?rf yect - and the
employment of key staff.
It is estimated that a total of eight hundred and sixty four (864) person months of consultant services will
be required. In addition, the incremenal operang expense associated with providing this assistance wiUl
be funded under the credit, as will training, essential vehicles, and equipment and supplies.
in. Project Management and Review
8.    The project will be implemented over a four-year period beginning October 1, 1993 and ending
September 30, 1997. The project organization chart, responsibility matrix and a note on WG operations
are presented in Appendix A; the project monitoring indicators are presented in Appendix B; the
implementation schedule is set out in Appendix C; a consultants matrix is presented in Appendix D; a
capacity building note and the raining program mat are summized in Appendix E; a note on user
demand assessments is inuded as Appendix F; the Ler  of Sector Policy is presented in Appendix G;
and the criteria for the preparation of resetement plans in Appendix H.



- 20 -
9.    Policy Guidance. Overall policy guidance and coordination will be provided by the IMC chaired
by the Minister of MAE. This committee would be comprised of a core group of ministers including,
in addition to MAE, those for MOF and MCA, MOJ and the Ministry of Labor (MOL) and the Vice-
Minister of Planning. It would be established by and report directly to the Council of Ministers (COM).
Specifically, it will be responsible for giving guidance to and securing GOM's approval of the proposed
legal, administrative, and financial instruments and actions required to give effect to the decentralization
program. The IMC will meet at least quarterly during the first year of the project and half-yearly
thereafter. It will also meet on an ad hoc basis when necessary to resolve urgent legal, institutional and
financial policy issues. Establishment of IMIC and the submission by GOM to IDA of an acceptable letter
of local government sector policy were conditions of Board presentation.
10.   Project Preparation, Coordination  and  Implementation.   Project preparation and
implementation is the overall responsibility of MAE, working in close collaboration with the MOF, and
MCA, CNA, INPF and the local authorities in the five project cities. To assist MAE in preparing and
overseeing the implementation of the project, the CG has already been established, chaired by DNAL.
The chair of the CG reports directly to the Minister of MAE in his capacity as chair of IMC and
Minister.
11.   Within the CG, three inter-ministerial working groups (WGI: Legal and Institutional; WGII:
Fiscal and Firn.ncial; and WGIII: Urban/Environmental) have been established, each with its own
chairman but under the overall direction of the Chairman of the CG. The WGs are comprised of senior
officers of MAE, MOJ, MOF, MCA, CNA and INPF, and are supported by the services of selected
consultants. The CG, in turn, is comprised of the Chairs and the Vice-Chairs of the individual WGs,
plus selected consultants. The WGII, in particular, will employ the services of a finance and taxation
advisor whose task will be to assist the WG chair and, through the chair, MAE on all matters relating
to local government fiscal and financial reform, including reviewing the work and proposals of the other
consultants working for the WG. The WGII would also be responsible for assisting MAE with the
coordination of all training activities under the project and to that end would employ the services of a
training coordinator - the latter reporting through the chair of WGII to the chair of the CG. The CG
and WGs play key roles in the project although they do not have executive authority. WGs have
responsibility for specific sets of project sub-components. They advise and assist MAE on substantive
reform issues (legislative, institutional, fiscal, training, etc.); in developing terms of reference for, and
reviewing the outputs of consultants; and in overseeing the implementation of the reform program. And,
equally importantly, they help MAE to ensure that the various project sub-components and outputs are
effectively integrated into a coherent overall reform program. The CG and WGs will each meet monthly
during the first two years of the project and quarterly thereafter. Both would also meet on an ad hoc
basis to resolve problems and expedite project implementation.
12.   While MAE will have overall responsibility for the project, MOF, MOJ, MCA, CNA and INPF
will be responsible for implementation of key aspects of the project. These responsibilities will be
discharged in close consultation with MAE and each other. Preparation and implementation of the legal,
institutional, fiscal, financial and administrative reforms will be closely coordinated with the CECs in
each of the five cities, and with the offices of the respective provincial governors. Each project city will
enter into an Implementation Agreement with MAE in order to be eligible for technical support, training,
vehicles and equipment, and pilot sub-project works under the project. This Implementation Agreement
will oblige project cities to implement the proposed legal, institutional and fiscal reforms and to prepare
and then adopt a satisfactory MDP.



- 21 -
13.   In order to ensure effective local project implementation and coordination, an LSG will be
established for each city comprising the senior officers of the respective CEC and the representatives of
MAE, MCA, CNA and INPF plus selected consultants, and will meet monthly, or as often as necessary,
to expedite the project. Preparation and implementation of the urban/environment sub-component at the
local level will be the responsibility of the respective CEC, with the assistance of MCA and CNA. The
urban transport (bicycle) pilot sub-project in Beira would be implemented by an NGO resident in
Mozambique, selected through competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. This NGO will sign a
pilot sub-project agreement with MCA and Beira CEC for this purpose, and the agreement will be sent
to the Association for review.
14.    To fulfill its technical, managerial and supervisory obligations in respect of the
Urban/Environmental sub-component, MCA will continue to maintain HABITAR on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The staff of this unit would include the Project Manager, Senior Urban Planner,
Systems Analyst and Economic/Financial Analyst, all recruited on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. Working closely with the CECs, the HABITAR would have specific responsibility for
assisting WGIII in developing terms of reference; employing consultants; monitoring and evaluating
consultant outputs; helping to prepare engineering designs, resettlement plans, costing and contract
documentation; and supervising consultants and works. CNA would have special responsibility for
overseeing the preparation and implementation of the environmental pilot sub-project in Nampula and
would liaise closely with HABITAR for this purpose. The designation of HABITAR as a project agency
and its staffing of on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
Since HABITAR already has a project manager and staff, the key staff that should be hired prior to
effectiveness is the senior urban planner, but it was agreed at negotiations that HABITAR would ensure
that qualified local counterpart staff to work with and receive training from consultants would be
contracted on a timely basis.
15.   Project Administrative Support, Accounting, Monitoring and Reporting . Apart from its
general substantive responsibility for local government, MAE's specific responsibilities under the project
also include, inter alia, ensuring the finalization of terms of reference for all consultancies and works;
recruiting and employing consultants; entering into necessary contracts; securing and implementing
necessary changes in laws, regulations and administrative guidelines; managing training programs;
overseeing process consultation; and undertaking project monitoring, payments, accounting, auditing and
reporting, including reporting to the Association. In order to meet these responsibilities, MAE will
establish, staff and maintain the TSU, which will function as a project secretariat, and will be under the.
leadership of a Project Director - the latter reporting directly to DNAL. Besides the Project Director,
the key staff of TSU will include a Manager of Administration and Organizational Development whose
task will be to advise and assist the r roject Director on all matters related to the implementation of the
reforms, preparation of monthly and quarterly reports on progress, and expediting of all administrative
and training tasks required under the project; a Manager of Procurement who will ensure that project
procurement inputs are acquired in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, and in accordance with
IDA Guidelines; and a Financial Controller who will ensure that proper accour.is are kept, audits are done
effectively and on a timely basis, and the finances of the project are managed efficiently. All will be
recruited and employed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, and TSU will be provided with
necessary administrative and logistical support by MAE. Where necessary, TSU will also provide
administrative support to MCA and CNA. The establishment and staffing of TSU on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. The key staff that should be recruited prior
to effectiveness are the Project Director, the Manager of Procurement and the Financial Controller. To
assist MAE, CG, WGs, TSU and HABITAR to manage the project, a set of Project Monitoring Indicators



-22 -
which provides for regular annual reviews and a mid-term review has been developed (Appendix B).
Detailed training plans and the process consultation program were discussed at negotiations, as were the
taking of all necessary steps to start the legal, institutional reform no later than June 30, 1994 and the
financial reform no later than August 31, 1994. The annual reviews and mid-term review, to be held by
September 30, 1995, and the carrying out of agreed recommendations arising out of these reviews, were
agreed at negotiations. It was further agreed that on the basis of understanding to be reached between
GOM and IDA at the mid-term review, GOM will develop a further program of action and update the
Letter of Sector Policy.



- 23 -
SECTION B: Project Costs. Flnancins. Procurement. Disbursement.
Reporting. and Agreements Reached
I. Project Costs
16.   The total project cost is estimated at US$24.5 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$14.2 million or about 58% of total costs. The estimated total project cost is net of taxes and duties
which would be borne by the Government. Base cost estimates are calculated using January 1993 prices.
The physical contingencies represent 10% of base costs. Price contingencies, corresponding to 7% of
base costs plus physical contingencies are derived from expected foreign price increases of 3.1% per
annum over a four-year implementation schedule beginning on October 1, 1993.
II. Project Financing
17.   The proposed IDA credit of US$23.2 million equivalent will finance 95% of total costs, including
100% of the costs of studies and audits, consultant services (including services for the preparation of
resettlement plans) and training, and 100% of foreign costs and 70% of local costs of other components.
Government financing of US$1.3 million will be utilized for part of the local cost of project components.
In order to expedite project preparation funding under a Project Preparidon Facility (PPF) amounting to
US$0.75 million has been provided by IDA to GOM. To further expedite project preparation a second
PPF has been requested by GOM and is being considered by IDA. If this is approved, the unallocated
category would be reduced accordingly. Also, GOM has been discussing the possibility of cofinancing
for some pilot subprojects with a number of donors. If these discussions prove successful, the IDA
financing share would be reduced or reallocated.
III. Procurenent
18.   The procurement procedures for the IDA-financed components are as follows: (a) Studies and
Audits (US$4.4 million), Consultant Services (US$8.6 million) ard Training (US$2.9 million):
consulting firms and long and short-term consultants would be recruited both locally and internationally.
The selection, qualifications, experience and terms of employment are subject to standard IDA procedures
as set out in the World Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981). It was agreed at
negotiations that the Bank's Sample Letter of Invitation, and Standard Contract for Consultant Services,
appropriately modified for the purposes of the project will be used in the procurement process.  (b)
Works are small value contracts (not expected to exceed US$0.5 million each), are dispersed over various
scattered areas and spread over time, and are highly labor intensive. The total value of works required
under the pilot sub-projects is not expected to exceed US$1.7 million, of which works valued at US$1.2
million would be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which would include local
advertising, clearly stated evaluation criteria, public bid opening, award to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder. Foreign bidders, if interested, would not be precluded from participation. It was agreed at
negoti-tions that the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Small Works (1991), appropriately
modified for the purposes of the project, will be used. However, force account procedures could be used
for the implementation of works up to a maximum of US$0.5 million for works which are small and
scattered over wide areas and works which would be attended to without disruption of ongoing
operations; risks of disruption could be borne by the Government rather than the contractor, and the IDA



- 24 -
financial share would ue limited to US$0.3 million; (c) Vehicles, Equipment, Spares and Supplies
(US$3.2 million) will be procured using standard IDA procedures as set out in the World Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (1992). It was agreed at negotiations
that (i) suppliers will be selected on the basis of ICB; (ii) that the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
for Goods, appropriately modified for the purposes of the project, will be used; and (iii) equipment, spare
parts and supplies valued in the aggregate at US$0.7 million would include proprietary and off the shelf
items which are expected to cost US$25,000 each and would be procured by local or international
shopping as appropriate, with three quotations from two eligible countries. Incremental Operating
Expenses estimated at US$3.7 million would be procured under government procedures. The estimated
schedule of procurement is shown in Schedule B.
19.   Contract Review. Contracts above US$100,000 would be subject to prior IDA review. The
balance of the packages would be subject to random post-review by IDA supervision missions.
IV. Disbursements
20.   Disbursement will be made against standard Bank documentation. The proceeds of the Credit
would be disbursed against 100% of expenditures on studies and audits, consultant services including
services for the preparation of resettlement plans, and training, and 100% of foreign and 70% of local
expenditures for all other components. For expenditures on the local component of services of consultant
firms, training, works, and incremental operating expenses, and purchase orders and contracts not
exceeding US$50,000, disbursements would be on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). All
other disbursement claims will be fully documented. In order to expedite disbursement and ensure the
timely provision of funds, a special account with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million will be established
and will be replenished in accordance with procedures agreed at negotiations. Funds in the special
account would be available to finance only eligible expenditure under the project. The estimated schedule
of disbursements of IDA funds is shown in Schedule B. Disbursements are expected to take place over
a period of four years and be completed by September 30, 1997, with the closing date scheduled for
March 31, 1998. In order to ensure the timely provision of local counterpart funding, GOM will open
and maintain a Project Account in local currency in a local commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. Further, GOM will make an initial deposit in local currency equivalent to
US$60,000 into the Project Account, and deposit into the account every four months amounts in local
currency that would be required to replenish the Account. The opening of the Project Account with the
initial deposit by GOM is a condition of effectiveness. There are two conditions of disbursement as
follows: on all subproject works, (i) the submission to IDA of a resettlement plan for families to be
relocated during the implementation of subprojects, prepared in accordance with criteria and terms agreed
upon between GOM and IDA at negotiation; and (ii) evidence, satisfactory to IDA, certifying GOM's
legal ownership of land where civil works financed under the Credit will be carried out.
V. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting and Monitoring
21.   The following accounting and auditing arrangements were agreed upon during negotiations:
(i) Project accounts: that consolidated accounts would be maintained on a basis satisfactory to IDA by
MAE (TSU) for all IDA-financed components of the project, including local costs financed by
Government; (ii) Audits: that the project accounts, including the special account, and all disbursements
against SOEs would be audited separately and on an annual basis by independent auditors acceptable to



-25 -
IDA and submitted annually to IDA no later than nine months after the end of each GOM financial year.
In order to ensure maintenance of annual accounts on a satisfactory basis, and timely completion of final
accounts, the TSU would be staffed with a suitably qualified accountant supported by appropriate
technical assistance. The contracting of independent auditors satisfactory to IDA is a condition of
effectiveness. T"he following arrangements for project monitoring and reporting were agreed upon
during negotiations: that MAE (SU) will provide, on a quarterly basis, consolidated reports
(comprising the reports of the consultants and MAE (ISU) comments thereon) on project implementation
progress covering the status of procurement of consulting services and training, works, incremental
operating expenses and vehicles and equipment, and progress on the legal and institutional, fiscal and
financial, and urban/environmental management and development components. The monitoring indicators
would provide the basis for reporting on the progress of the reforms and the pilot sub-projects. This
report should be submitted to IDA within one month of the end of the relevant quarter. In addition,
MAE and IDA would conduct annual project reviews no later than September 30 every year, and a mid-
term review no later than September 30, 1995. In preparation for these reviews, MAE would submit
annual and mid-term project reports to IDA not later than four weeks before the annual and mid-term
reviews respectively.
VI. Agreements Reached.
22.   During project appraisal, post-appraisal, and subsequent technical discussions, understandings
were reached on: implementation procedures at central, provincial and local levels; terms of reference,
arrangements and monitoring indicators for undertaking and managing technical assistance, studies and
training; and the training and process consultation program, including criteria and mechansms for
evaluation. During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(i)    detailed reporting and monitoring arrangements, including progress monitoring indicators
and annual and mid-term implementation reviews (the latter to be carried out by
Sepember 30, 1995) to cover inter alia progress achieved in the reform program and
the proposed budgetary allocations for the next year and measures taken to ensure timely
provision of counterpart funds (para 21);
(ii)   the carrying out of agreed recommendations arising out of the annual and mid-term
reviews (para 15);
(iii) the preparation and implementation, if necessary, of resettlement plans in accordance with
criteia, terms, and timetables agreed with IDA (paras 6 and 19);
(iv)   auditing and procurement procedures, including the use of stndard bidding documents,
appropriately modified (para 18);
(v)    detailed institutional arrangements, including Inter aLia the satsfiatory establishment,
staffing and operation of the TSU and HABITAR (para 14 and 15);
(vi) appointment of qualified local counterpart staff to work with and receive training from
consultants (para 14);



- 26 -
(vii) the timely implementation and content of the Implementation Agreements to be entered
into between MAE and the project cities, and of the MDPs, for which preparation would
be started by January 31, 1995 (para 12);
(viii)  the satisfactory maintenance and replenishment every four months of a Project Account
to finance the Government's project contribution (para 20);
(ix)   the taking of all necessary steps to start the legal and institutional reform no later than
June 30, 1994, and the financial reform no later than August 31, 1994 (para 15); and
(x)    by December 31, 1995, agreement with IDA on a further program of action and updating
of the Letter of Sector Policy (para 15).
23.   The conditions of effectiveness are:
(i)   the establishment of TSU, the designation of HABITAR as a project agency, and the
staffing of TSU and HAB1TAR on satisfactory terms (paras 14, 15 and 22);
(ii)   the signing of satisfactory implementation agreements between MAE and the five project
cities (para 12);
(iii) the contracting of independent auditors, on terms satisfactory to IDA (para 21);
(iv)   the initial deposit of US$60,000 equivalent into the Project Account (para 20); and
(v)   the contracting of consultants for the fiscal, financial and organizational reform studies
(para 5).
24.   The conditions of disbursement are:
(i)    for all subproject works, if relocation of any households is necessary as a result of sub-
project investments, preparation of a satisfactory resettlement plan (para 6); and
(ii)   for civil works under each subproject, the submission of satisfactory evidence certiying
GOM's legal ownership of the land where civil works will be carried out (para 6).



- 27 -
Section C: Project Qrution, Monitoring Indicators. Implementation Schedule.
Capacit, Building. Usgr Demand Assessnt, Letter of Sector Policy and Criteria
for the Preparation Pf Resettlement Plans
Appdices:
A.    Project Organization Chart, Responsibility Table and Note on WG Operations
B.    Project Monitoring Indicators
C.    Implementation Schedule
D.    Consultant's Matrix
E.    Capacity Building: Process Consultation and Training
F.    User Demand Assessment Note
G.    Leter of Sector Policy
H.    Criteria for the Preparation of Resettlement Plans



MOZAMBIQUE: LOCAL GOVERNMEmT REFORm & ENGINEERING CREDIT
INC
E   ER3  E  ~~MED  [EEl [El
.   CHAIR
MINMA
I.-
DR~~~~~~~~~DI
MAY 19T9.3                         I
MA  199



-29-                                Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
LOCAL GOffTNM    REFRM A  ENGINEERING PROJECT
Resnonsibilitv Matrix
Actviby                  ReMnsibil       Group Composition and Reporting
Overall Policy Guidance    IMC           Ministers of State: MAE (Chair.), MOF, MOJ,
CNP, MOL & MCA - (Reports to COM).
Policy Advice, Project    CG, WGs &       Director of Local Government Adminstration,
Preparation, Consultant    (LSGs at local   MAE (Chair.); Chair. & V. Chair. of WGs; TSU
TORs and Supervision,     level, see      Project and HABfTAR managers; & selected
Integration and           below).         consultants - (Reports to IMC through Minister,
Coordination                             MAE).
* Legal and Institutional   WGI          Snr. Legal & Administrative officers of MAE,
MOJ and selected consultants (Reports to CG).
* Fiscal, Financial and  WGII            Snr. officers of MOF, MAE & selected
Organizational                         consultants (Reports to CG).
(mcluding training)
3 Urban/Environmental    WGM             Snr. officers of MCA, CNA & INPF -
(Reports to CG).
Implementation
* Legal & Institutional  MAE/MOJ/        Snr. Officers at MOF, MAE & CE Cs; assisted
* Fiscal, Financial and  MOF/CECs        by consultants - (Reports to relevant Mimistry or
Organizatonal                          CEC).
(Including Training)
Urban & EnviroInmental  MCA/           HABITAR, Snr. Staff of CNA & CECs, NGO
(HABITAR)/   (Beira) & selected consultants (Reports to MCA,
CECs/NCO/    CNA & CECs).
CNA
Local Level Coordination   LSG            President of CEC; Snr. officers of MAE, MCA,
and Support                              and CNA at local level; & selected consultants -
(Reports to CEC).
Project Administration    MAE (rSU)    TSU Project director, Dir. of Adminitration,
(Procurement,                            Financial Controller, & Dir. of Procurement
Disbursement, Accounting,                (Reports to Minister, MAE).
Monitoring, Reporting,
Audits and General
Support)



- 30 -                            Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
Working Groups Structure and Relationships
1.    A Coordinating Group (CG) has been established to oversee the implementation of the project.
The CG is chaired by the National Director for Local Government Affairs (DNAL), and includes the
National Directors of the Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA) and the Finance Ministry (MOF).
A Technical Support Unit (TSU), including a Project Director appointed full-time to this assignment from
within MAE, would service the CG.
2.    Three Working Groups (WGs) covering: WG I - institutional and legal; WG II - fiscal, financial
and organizational; and WG HI - urbanlenvironment management and development, under the supervision
of the CG, have been established to implement the project. All of the working groups would utilize
consultancies as required, and the core groups would themselves be modified according to changing skill
mix requirements as the work progresses.
3.    Coordination and Internal Structure: The tasks of the WGs will be coordinated by the Chairmen.
The Chairmen also will be responsible for coordination with their counterparts in the other two working
groups. Each Group will establish whatever internal structure the Chairman considers appropriate for
the tasks to be carried out.
4.    Relationship of Consultants to WG: The work of the Groups will be supported by consultants
hired by MAE and assigned to the WGs. Within one month after the start of the consultancies, the
consultants will prepare and present to the Chairman of their WG a detailed work program proposal and
a schedule for each assignment, outlining issues to be covered, and areas of decisions to be made. The
proposed work program would outline the staged decision-making required to implement the action plan
based on forthcoming findings. Upon submission, it will be evaluated by the WG/CG, adjusted as
deemed necessary, and returned to the consultants for the completion of their assignments. The proposed
work program would be submitted by the WG to IDA for its comments, prior to its approval.
5.    Under their work program, the consultants will be expected to report their findings and
recommendations to the WG Chairman at least every two weeks to ensure technical coordination and an
early assessment and implementation of the recommendations. The consultants will focus on the detailed
development of technical options in response to objectives, policy strategies and alternatives as expressed
by the WG. The consultants will organize workshops with the WGs on key issues and on complex
analyses in order to ensure that the WGs fully appreciate the critical factors involved in any
recommendations that they may make.
6.    In executing their terms of reference, the consultants will identify any legislative and/or
regulatory cianges required and assist in drafting appropriate changes.
7.    Decision Making. The COM would make the final decisions regarding policy recommendations
which will be tested in the project cities. However, before recommendations are presented to the COM,
there would have been process consultations involving officials of affected agencies and levels of
government, and consideration within the WG and at the CG and IMC.



PRMOJEC-T NDMONTRM INDICATORS
MONITORING PERIOD
PRIOR TO OCT           Q:1&2               Q:3&4            Q:S&6           Q:7&.    |   Q.9&h0          Q:11&12        Q:13116
COMPONENT              1993          OCT 19931 MAR    APRIIJSEP 1994   OCT 1994/MAR   APR1USEPT |  OCT 1995/    APRIJSEP   OCT 1
1994                                1995            1995    |  MAR 1996           1996           1997
KEY STAGE'    Pre-Effectiveness    Effectiveness (Oct. 1,                   Pilots Begin    Mid-term Re-   Preparation for  Pre-Gobaliza-  Final Project
1993)                                 (Oct. 1, 1994)    view Sept 95   Globalization   tion Review,   Review, Sept
Sept 96       '97
Project Review                       Proiect Launch      Project ProgresI    Proj. Review   Mission Sept   Review Prog-   Review lst     Review Otb-
Missions                             Workshop-Oct. '93   Mission Mar '94    Mission March   '95            ress re Glob-   Draft of Glob-  bal'a Plan
'95                            alization Prep   alization Plan   Mar 97
Pre-Pilot Project                                Mar '96        Sept '96
Review Mission                                                                 Final Mission
Sep. '94                                                                      I Sept '97
LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM  (WGI)
(A) (i) Legal Re-  Enabling legislation   Begin Prep. of Insti-  Integrate Results of Begin Implem-   Review of  Summary of    Complete 1st   Globalization
form             Approved            tutional Law        Finance Studies and ention of Laws   Implementation  Experience to   Draft of Glob-  Program Plan
Publish Inst. Law                                date           air.axon Pan
Recruit Consultants                                                       Begin Global-
Draft Financial                   ization Prepara  Finalize Glob-
Law                               tion           alization
Approval ofLaw                                              _
(A) (ii) Administa- Develop New Ad-    Detail First Year  Integrate Financial  Begin Admin.    Review of   Summary of    Complete Ist   Globalization
tive Reform      ministrative Program  Reform Program    Study Results in    Program Reform  Implementation  Experience to   Draft of Glob-  Program Plan
Outline                                Admin. Program    in Municipalities               date           alization Plan
Begin Global-
ization Prepara  Fnalize Glob-
tion          alization
(B) (ai) Training &   Draft Detailed Tra-   Detail 1st Year  Complete Training  Update training   60% of Train-  Update training TrainingCom-  Evaluate Train-
ining Program      Training Program    of Trainers        program.        ing Completed  program.       pleted         ing Programs
Full Scale Train-              90% of Train-
Recruit Consultants  Begin Training of    Begin Training of  ing of Central    Review Prog-  ing Completed  Initial Evalua-   
Trainers            Central and Munic- and Municipal   ress                         tion
ipal Officials    Officials                      Review Prog-                                     '
____ _                                                    ___.__   _ _ ___ _   _ __ __    r.s                          .      _    _      ._      _
(B) (ii) Process    Meet with Central,   Hold Initial Con-  Hold Consultations  Initiate City and   Hold Consulta-        Hold Pre-Glob- Evaluate pro-      
Consultation 2    Provincial and Local sultations on 1st Year on Financial Re-    Community Con- tion on Mid-             alization Con-  cess consuta-
Government Officials Lega and Admin.Re- form Implications   sutations     term Review                   sultation 4    tion
to Explain Process   form Activities                                      Eval. process
consultation



PROJECT MOTNITOING INDCATORS
MONITORING PERIOD
PRIOR TO OCT           Qs1&2               Q:3&4            Q:5&6           Q:7&8          Q:9&lo        Q:1 l&12       12Q:t3116
COMPONENT              1993          OCT 19931 MAR    APRWLSEP 1994   OCT 1994/MAR   APRWIJSEPT    OCT 1995/    APRILJSEP   OCT 1996/SEP
1994                                1995            1995        MAR  1996         1996           1997
KEY STAGE'    Pre-Effectiveness    Effectiveness (Oct. 1,                  Pilots Begin     Mid-tem Re-   Preparation for Pre-Globaliza-  Final Project
1993)                                 (Oct. 1. 1994)    view Sept '9S   Globalization   tion Review,   Review, Sept
. .                 ~~~~~~~Sent '46  97
_           _                                                           _nC
(C) Support to   TSU established     Recruit Trainers    Continue Training                  Evaluate Sup-                                Evaluate Sup-
MAE and pilot cit-                                       Support                            port to MAE                                  port to MAE
ies              Recruit Training and  Begin Training Sup-
Admin.Director     port
FISCAL, FINANCIAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL REFORM (WGIl)                         _                     -                                                     | _
(A) Reform Fiscal Recruit Consultants  Studies and Draft    Integrate Study Re- Begin to Imple-   Review of  Summary of    Complete Ist   Globalization
Transfer System                      Proposals           sults into Draft In-  ment New Ar-   Implementation  Experienceto   Draf of Glob-  Program Plan
stitutional and   rangements                     date           alization Plan
Financial Laws                    Begin Global-
ization Prepara  Falize Glob-
.__ ___ __ __   ___ __ ___ __   __ ___lion  alization __._                         I
(B) LO Resource   Recruit Consultants  Studies and Drafl    Integrate Study Re- Begin to Imple-   Review of  Summary of    Complete 1st   Globalization
Mobilization (rax-                   Proposals           sults into Draft In-  ment New Laws  Implementation  Experience to   Draft of Glob-  Program Plan
es and User Char-                                        sdtutional and                                    date           alization Plan
ges)                                                     Financiga Laws                     Begin Glod-
izatioai Prepara  Finalize Glob-
tion          alization
(C) LG Financial  Recruit Consultants  Studies and Draft  ntegrate Study Re- Begin to lmple-   Review of   Summary of    Complete Ist   Globalization
Urban Services                       Proposals           sults into Draft In-  ment New Laws  Implementation  Experience to   Draft of Glob-  Program Plan
stitutional and                                  date           alizatonm Plan                  P
Financial Laws
Begin Global-                                0-
izion Prepara                                  t
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _  _  _  _ _  _    _  _  _  _  _                  ~~~~~~          ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~~~~~~tion_ _ _ _ _ _
(D) Reform Ac-   Recruit Consultants  Studies and Draft  Detail 1st Year   Begin Implem-   Review of       Summary of    Complete Ist   Globalization
counting, Budget-                    Proposals           Plan              entation         Implementation  Experience to   Draft of Glob-  Program Plan
ing, and MIS                                                                                               date           alization Plan
Systems                                                  Outline Follow-up   Begin Global-    Finalize Glob-
Plan              ization Prepara-  alizaion     Finalze Glob-
tin                            sairation



PROJECT MONORING ICATO
MONITORING PERIOD
PRIOR TO OCT           Q:1&2               Q3&4             Q:5&6           QA78   |   Q98I0             Q:11&12        Q:13116
COMPONENT              1993          OCT 1993/ MAR    APRIUSEP 1994   OCT 1994/MAR   APRIUSEPT    OCT 19951                APRIIJSEP   OCT 1996/SEP
1994                                1995            1995    |  MAR 1996           1996           1997
KEY STAGE'    Pre-Effectiveness    Effectiveness (Oct. 1,                   Pilots Begin    Mid-Wterm Re-   Preparation for  Pre-Gtobaiza-  Fial Project
1993)                                 (Oct. 1, 1994)    view Sept '95   Globalization   tion Review,   Review. Sept
_ot '96        2L1
(E) Administion  Recruit Consutants  Studies and Proposals Detail Plan for  Begin to Imple-   Review of    Summary of    Complete Ist   Gloalization
& Staffing                                               Flnaial Manage-  mewt Plan         Implementation  Experience to   Draft of Glob-  Program Plan
ment Functions                                   date           alization Plan
Oi) Functions and                                                                           Begin Global-
Staffing                                                                                    ization Prepara  Fmalize Glob-
tion          alization
(E) (ii) Training    Recruit Training  Detail 1st Year Pro-  Train Trainers and  Update train  60% Complete  Update train    Completed   Evaluate Trai-
Coordinator        gram                Begin Training of   program        Review Prog-   program        Initiate Evalua- ing Programs
Draft Training Pro-                    Municipal Staff    Train Municipal  ress          90% Complete  tion
gram                                                      Staff                          Review Prog-                                |
i_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  r es.  ._                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __r s
(E) (iii) Process    Meet with Central,   Hold Initial Con-  Hold Consultations  Hold Municipal   Hold Consulta-          Hold Pre-Glob- Evaluate pro-
Consultation     Provincial and Local sultations on Study    on the Draft Laws  and Community  tion on Mid-               alization Con-  cess consulta-
Officials to Explain   Results Draft Fin.    Involving Local    Level Cons-  term Review 5              sultation'     tion
Process            Proposals           Governnent Fi-    ultations
nance__ ___._ _                 _ ___                                  _  __
(G) Operational    Recruit Finance and  Recruit Trainers  Continue Training                 Evaluate sup-                                Evaluate sup-
and Technical    Taxation Advisor                        Support                            port to MAE                                  port to MAE
Support to MAE                       Begin Training Sup-
port
URBANIENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT (WOmI)
(A) Municipal De-                    Recruit Consultants   Recruit Consultants Initiate Studies in  Mid-Term  Implementation  Update and  Update and
velopment Pro-                                                             Cities           Review         MDP            Implementation continue MDPs  
gam (Five Cit.                                                             Develop Studies                                MDP
ies) X                                                                    | and Draft Pro-   Implement
posals          MDP Activiiest
and Investien



-34 -Appendix B3
-   .________           ~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 6
. TX                     ,.   .. 
..-  U             .. a
i f            ii  !fif  E
; 0 _                            n__
9~~~~*g XX
A juS~~~~~~'



PROBEa MOORG ICATORS
MONITORING PERIOD
PRIOR TO OCT            Q:1&2               Q:3&4             Q:5&6            Q:7&8         Q:9&O0         Q:11&12         Q:13116
COMPONENT               1993          OCT 1993/ MAR    APRtlJSEP 1994   OCT 1994/MAR   APRIUSEPT    OCT 199Sf                 APRILSEP   OCT 1996/SEP
1994                                 1995             1995        MAR 1996           1996           1997
KEY STAGE'        Pre-Effectiveness   Effectiveness (Oct. 1,                  Pilots Begin     Mid-term Re-   Preparation for  Pre-Globaliza-  Final Project
1993)                                  (Oct. 1, 1994)    view Sept '95   Globalization   tion Review.   Review, Sept
(G) (i) Project   Finalize TORs and    Review Consultant's  Finalize contract    Assist with im-   Provide input   Mortitoring    Monitoring and  Fialize all
Management        Recruit Consultants  outputs and progress  documents for    plementation of   for review    and Review      Review         project ac-
for MDP Pilots      works and submit   MDPs and moni-                                                 counts and
documents to Bank  tor MDP con-                                                   prepare PCRs
for approval       tracts
(0) (ii) Training                     Identify Trainees for  Develop Training   Update training   Completion of  Update training Completion of  Evaluate train-
Mapping Program     Plan in MDP and   program.          Training in     program.       Training in    ing program
Urban Upgrading   Begin Training in Mapping        Completion of  MDP Prepara-
Begin Training in                      MDP and Urban                    Training in LIS tion and Updat-
Mapping Program                        Upgrading                        Evaluate and    ing, and Urban
_____________                   ___________                                                                 Upgrading
(G) (iii) Process                                                             Hold Initial Pro-               Evaluate pro-                  Evaluate pro-
Concultation                                                                  cess Consu-                     cess constlta-                 cess consulta-
Itations on MDP                 tion                          tion
and Urban Up-
grading Propos-
I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             als.             __
(0) (iv) User De-                     Initiate user demands  Initiate user de-    Initiate User De-  Continue Asse- Evaluate user   Assessment of  Evaluate user
mand Assessment                       assessments for      mand analysis for   mand Assess-    ments          demand assess- the Outcome of demand analy-
Environ. pilot      urban upgrading    ments for MDPs                   ment           the MDp,       cis.
Urban Upgra-
ing and Bev.
Planning and
Management         ~       ~       I
tA
o9;



PROJECT MONITORMNG INDICATORS
ENDNOTES
t.    The Items to be comnleted in the boxes under all Key Stages would be reviewed by the Bank before the next key stage may
begin.
2.    Consultations regarding the Institutional and Local Government Finance laws will involve officials of MAE, MCA, the
Ministries of Finance   Justice, the Provincial Governments and the Local Governments. Consultations prior to
implementation of the z Jorms would be expanded to include community interests in the local government jurisdictions.
3.    Officials of all the Central, Provincial and Local Governments involved in the reform program, as well as private sector and
community representatives would participate.
4.    Participants would include MAE, Ministries of Finance and Justice, MCA and the Provinces and Local Governments to be
involved in the Globalization Program.
5.    See End Note 7.
6.    See End Note 8.
7.    User demand assessments will be done in this component.
8.    User demand assessments applied.
9.    These consultations will involve officials of the Local and Provincial Governments, MCA, private sector and community representatives.
o et
fh a



MOZAMBIQUE: Lecal Government Reform & Engineering Project
Implementatlon Schedule
t993            199             1995            1996            1997 _
ACTIVrT_S                      ACTION BY  Q   Q   Q3 Q4 Q   Q_   _      Q4 _Ql Q   Q3  Q4 Q   Q2 Q3 04QlQ           3 _4
KEY EVENTS
Neo.a.  GOM/iDA
- Establish nC             ___,_
Leter of Sectr Policy_           _
Bofad                      MDA
Establis TSU & HBTrAR
Effctdven                  IDA
K  Missios_
Projed L.ch             IDA
Mid-tem Review          UDA
aosig                   MDA
SEL.ECTION OP CONSULTAS
TORs & Shottlist            GOM/IDA
Submit Proposals           CONS
Eval & Award               GOMIDA_
Consultat Mobiliati.n      CONS
WGI: LEGAL & INSTTUTIONAL
Pop of Le'tion Ebing       MAEICONS
Disc & APVX of Legisad     MAE/CONS
Draft bist Famewock        MAE/CONS   _ _ .
Draft Fiancial Leg         MAE/CONS
Cnieaion & App of Inst. Frame MAE/CONS
Publ of Inst GOaett        MAE/CONS
Admin org of 5 cities      MAE/CONS   -  *   -  - _      :
Draft Traiing Pla          MAEICONS   - _        _       _t
Tainig of Traine           MAE/CONS
T olamnttin                MAE/CONS                                  - _                            -  - _
loal Reform                MAEICONS                                                 -  - _          -
Trnsfers: Study            MAECONS>
Expenditus: Study          MAEICONS
Loc Taes Mob: StuAY        MAEICONS
Non Tai Soues    o         MAE/CONS                                                                                 -
Page 1



-38 -                 Appendix C
Page 2 of 2
_ i _ _    ._ __
_,  ___
IN  8-- _.___ - - _ 
CZi       8            _
2    ___  ____ __ _    
|    II    ggggg     
-- d-- -S ji ld.



- 39 -                                  Appendix D
CONSULTANTS MAuRIx                                Page I of 4
LEGAL AMD INSTlTUTIONAL REFORM
(Prep. and Oversight Resp.: WGI
(Implement. Resp. CentraVlProvincial: MOF/MOJIMAE)
(Implement. Resp. Local: MAE/CECs, with LCO coordination
(Administrative and Logistical Support: MAE)
Component and     Consultants    Local/   Person                Comments
Sub-Component                   Foreign   Months
A.              Municipal      L          15       Individ.: Consultant employed
i) Legal Reform    Finance Law
ii) Administative  (group leader)
Reform          Administrative  L         12       Individ.: Consultant employed
Law
Public Law    L          6        Individ.: Consultant employed
Constututional/ F        12       Individ.: Consultant employed
Public Law
(Advisor)
Org. Expert   F          5        Individ.: Consultant employed
B. Training &   Lawyer         L          36      Individ.: Consultant employed and recruit
Capacity Building  (Coordinator)                   by January 1, 1994; Bank clearance of
draft contract required
Lawyer        F          4
(Advisor)                                        (ditto)
Train. Expert  F         27       Individ.: MAE to finalize TOR & recruit
by Oct. 1, 1993; Bank clearance of draft
contract required
Train. Expert  F         27                      (ditto)
C. legal &      Org. Expert   F           10       Individ.: MAE to finalize TOR & recruit
Admin. Support to                                  by January 1, 1994; Bank clearance of
MAE and Pilot                                      draft contract required
Cities
Lawyer        L          15
(Finance)                                       (ditto)
Lawyer        F          14
(Advisor)                                        (ditto)
Lawyer        L          12
(Admin'tion)                                    (ditto)
Org./Admin    L          28
Assistants    Group                              (ditto)
Legal/Admin   L          110      Individ.: MAE to finalize TOR & recruit
Assistants    Group               by January 1, 1994;
Lawyer/Admin F           5        Individ.: MAE to finalize TOR & recruit
Expert                            by January 1, 1994; Bank clearance of
draft contract required



-40-                                 Appendix D
CONSULTbNTS MATRIX                               Page 2 of 4
FISCAL, FINANCIAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL REFORM
(Prop. and Oversight Resp.: WOU)
(Implement. Resp. Central"Provincial:MOF/MOI/MAE)
(implement. Reasp. Local: MAE;CEC, with LCG coordinaton
(Admistative aLogitical SIMAE)
Compoent and  j  Consultants |  Local/ | Persoa |                Comments
Sub-Component   _                Foreign   Months j
A. Reform Fiscal  Beon. Fiscal   F         24      International Frm in Association wit
Traasfer System    Transfers       -         -      local Experts: MAE to finaLize TOR and
employ by October 1, 1993; Bank
Econ.         F          10       clearance of TOR, shortlist, selection &
Expeaditures               -      draft contract required.
Contracting of firm is a condition of
Local         L          24       effectiveness.
Counterpart_      -
B. LG Resource   Econ.         F           8
Mobilization     Municipal
(raxes and User   Taxation
Charges)         Econ. Non-tax  F          8
Revenue
Local         L          8
Counterpart
C. LG Fiancing  Bcon. Public   F           20
Util. Tariffs
Econ. Private  F         11
Sector
Participation
D. Reform        Mun. Fin.     F           15
Accounting, Bud-  Exp., Acct.&
geting, and MIS   Budget
Systems          Data          F           24
Processing &
MIS Experts
Local         L          24
Counterpart
E. Administration  Org. Expert   F         12
i) Functions &
Staffing         Train. Expert  F          18
ii) Training
F. Msnapement&  General        L           48       Individ.: Consultant employed
Support to MAE   Manager
Fumnace and    F         36       Individ.: MAE to finalize TOR & recruit
Taxation                          by Oct. 1, 1993; Bank clearance of draft
Advisor                           contract required
Training      F          36
Coordinator                                       (ditto)
Sub-Group     L          18
Coordinator                                       (ditto)
Sub-Group     L          18
Coordinator                                       (ditto)
Support Group  L(group)   30                      (ditto)



- 41 -                               Appendix D
CONSULTANIS MATI4X                             Page 3 of 4
URBAN/ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
(Prep. and Oversight Resp.: WOM
|(mplement. Resp. Central/Provincial: MCA(PIU)/CNA
(Emplement. Reap. Local: MCA(HABlTAR)/CNAtCECstNGO(Beira), with LCGs coordination
(Administrative and Logistical Support: MAE)
Component and      Consultants     Local/ | Persoan              Comments
Sub-Component |               [  Foreign |_Months
A. Municipal De- Urb            F          36       International Firm in Association with
velopment Pro-    Planner/Manag                    local Experts: MCA (HABITAR) to
grams (Five Cit-  or                                finalize TOR and employ by October 1,
ies)                                                1993; Bank clearance of TOR, shortlist,
Infra.Engineer  F        30       selection & contract required
Urb. Econ/Fin. F         30
Analyst
Environ.      F          24
Planner
Transp.       F           15
Engineer
Urb.          F          30
Sociololist
(B) Urban        Local Plan?    L          NA       Local Firm: MCA (HABlTAR) to
Upgrading Pilot   Engineering                       finalize TOR and employ by October 1,
(Pemba)          Firm                               1993; Bank clearance of TOR, shortlist,
_________            selection & contract required
C. Enviromental  Local Group    LIF        278      Local Group with For. Consult:
Development Pilot with assist of                    CNAtMCA (HABITAR) to finalize TOR
(Nampula)        For. Environ.                      and employ by Jan. 1, 1994; Bank
Consultant                         clearance of TOR, shortlist, selection &
contract required
D. Non-Motorizd NCO             F          NA       Locally resident NGO: MCA
Transport (Beira)                                   (HABITAR) to finalize TOR and employ
by Jan. 1, 1994; Bank clearance of TOR,
shortlist, selection & contract required
E. Rapid Mapping Firm           F          NA       International Firm: MCA (HABITAR) to
(Five Cities)                                       finalize TOR and employ by Jan. 1,
1994; Bank clearance of TOR, shortlist,
selection & contract required
F. Iand Informa-  Firm          F          99       International Firm: MCA (HABITAR) to
tion Systems                                        finalize TOR and employ by Jan. 1,
(Maputo)                                            1994; Bank clearance of TOR, shortlist,
selection & contract required
(Continued)



-42 -                                  Appendux D
CONSULTANTS MATRIX                             Page 4 of 4
URBAN/ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
(Prep. and Oversight Resp.: WOM
(Inplement. Resp. Central/Provincial: MCA(PIU)/CNA
(Implement. Resp. Local: MCA(HAB1TAR)/CNA/CECs/NGO(Beira), with LCQs coordination
(Administrative and Logistical Support: MAE)
Component and      Consultants    Local/    Person               Comments
Sub-Component I                  Foreign   Months
0.               HABITAR                            Individuals: MCA (HABITAR) to finalize
i) Project Manage                                   TORs and employ by October 1, 1993;
ment             Proj.Manager  L           30       Bank clearance of TOR, selection &
ii) Training     S    Urb      F           24       contract required; Project Manager
iii) Process Con-  Plan.                            already employed.
sultation
(G) (Iv) Beneficia- Jur. Civ. Eng. L       36
Iry Assessment
sJr. Urb. Plan. L        48
Econ./Fin     F          48
Anal.
Technicians    L         72
Syst. Analyst  F         21
Ecological    F          20
Advisor
Ecological    L          20
Technician
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT MAE(TSU)
(Administrative and Logistical Support WOs & CGs, CECs & LCGs)
Component and  |  Consultants |  Local/ | Person |               Comments
Sub-Component j _                Foreign j Months I
Administration,   Project      L          481/    Individuals: MAE to finalize TOR &
Contracts,       Director                           recruit by Oct. 1, 1993; Bank clearance
Payments,                                    -      of TOR, selection & contract required
Monitoring,      Manager       L           48
Reporting, Audits, Admin & Org.
Procurement,     Devi.
Disbursement,
Training Support, Manager      L           48
Process          Procurement
Consultation &
Beneficiary      Fin. Controler L          48
Assessment
I/     It is possible that this post will be occupied by MAE DNAL, in which case, no
provision should be necessary here.



- 43 -
Appendix E
Page 1 of 3
CAPACITY BUILMING: PROCESS CONSULTATION AND TRAINING
Introduction
1.    A critical objective of this project is to assist in building the individual and institutional capacities
necessary to ensure the success of the reform program. Building these capacities involves: a) creating
or strengthening commitment to new responsibilities and tasks; b) reducing constraints to productivity and
effectiveness; c) increasing understanding about the new responsibilities and tasks and their operational
requirements; and, d) increasing the skills necessary to carry out the new responsibilities and tasks. This
project integrates two elements into the efforts at individual and institutional capacity building: process
consultation and training. These elements contribute in specific ways but by different methods. The
process consultation element of the program is designed to ensure that the decision making about the
reform is fully informed and supported by the stakeholders. The training element is designed to prepare
the administrators of the reform to carry out their tasks effectively and productively.
PROCESSCONSL
Background
2.    One of the most important lessons which has emerged from reviews of efforts at policy and
institutional change is the need to involve everyone who have important interests in the outcome (the
stakeholders) in the process of guiding and shaping the necessary changes. There are several reasons why
this involvement is necessary; among them: a) stakeholders must have a sense of ownership of the
proposed reforms, as well as a clear understanding of its elements, if they are to be committed to carrying
out their part in the program; b) there is a real danger in the complex circumstances of such reforms that
important perspectives may be overlooked or given insufficient weight if key actors are excluded from
participation; and, c) unnecessary opposition, even to worthwhile changes, may be engendered by
inadequate understanding of the rationale for the changes. As a result, the process of devising and
implementing the Local Government Reform Program in Mozambique will include several mechanisms
for involving stak holders. The composition of the Inter-Ministerial Committee, the CG, the Working
Groups and the LSGs are important examples. However, there needs to be opportunities to draw other
important actors into the dialogue at crucial stages. The process consultation mechanism has been
designed for this purpose.
Carrying Out Consultations
3.    MAE, as chair of the Coordinating Committee, will be responsible for the preparation and
convening of, and follow-up to, consultations. During the preparation of the legal and administrative and
financial reforms, there will be a number of stages at which important decisions and choices will need
to be made. Specific stages noted in the monitoring indicators matrix (Appendix B) include: when the
principles of the legal and administative reform have been outlined, but before the drafting of the
institutional law is done (4th Quarter '93); on completion of the analytic studies for financial reform (2nd
Quarter '94); when the draft Institutional and Local Government Finance laws are prepared (2nd/3rd
Quarter '94); prior to the implementation of the reforms (3rd Quarter '94); at the review of the studies
and draft proposals for the Municipal Development Programs in the five cities and the Urban Upgrading
Project in Beira (4th Quarter '94/lst Quarter '95); a year after the initiation of the reforms (3rd Quarter
'95); and, prior to the globalization phase of the reforms (3rd Quarter '96).



- 44 -
Appendix E
Page 2 of 3
4.    As key draft documents or analytic results become available, these documents or results will
become the focal point around which consultations will be organized. These consultations would take
the form of a meeting or series of meetings at which pertinent stakeholders would be given a thorough
explanation of the draft document or analytic result and the implications that follow from it. For the
consultations leading to the promulgation of the Institutional and Local Government Finance laws,
officials of MAE, the Ministries of Finance and Justice, MCA, the Provincial Governments and the Local
Governments need to be involved. Because responsibilities for different aspects of activities associated
with the reform are allocated to several directorates within agencies, it is important that representatives
of all concerned directorates are involved. The consultations prior to implementation of the reforms and
with regard to the Municipal Development Programs in the five cities and the Urban Upgrading Project
in Beira would be expanded to include community interests in the local government jurisdictions.
5.    The participants would be encouraged to comment fully on the materials with the assurance that
their comments would be carefully taken into account. To the extent possible, a consensus should be
reached on key proposals that would be endorsed by the participants in the consultation. Although
complete consensus on all matters may not be achieved, all participants should be assured that they had
been heard and their views taken into account before moving on to the next stage of the reform process.
6.    Because of the importance that genuine participation plays in achieving its objectives, a
consultation would be carefully prepared and carried out. As the convener of the consultations, MAE
would prepare a checklist of considerations including: aspects and characteristics of the subject matter;
the number of participants and the time needed to be spent to ensure adequate discussion; the particular
mix of participants that would encourage free and open exchanges; the venue and style (formal/informal,
open or closed) that would be appropriate. Participants should be advised beforehand of what would be
asked of them. The outcome would be documented as appropriate and circulated to the participants, the
Working Groups and the Coordinating Group and would feedback into the design of project activities.
7.    The Bank would observe critical consultations to ensure itself that there is clarity and consensus
on crucial issues, and to receive first-hand some of the feedback.
TRAINING
Objectives
8.    The training components of this project will be designed to increase the productivity of the staff
who will administer the reform program. Consequently, training would be geared towards practical tasks
that would need to be accomplished. It must therefore be based on the realities in Mozambique. The
components will focus on ensuring that these staff understand the new administrative and legal structure
in which they will operate, the content of the tasks which they will be called upon to perform, the tools
and assistance that will be available to them and the output that will be expected.
The Preparation of Training Plans
9.    Training plans are to be prepared by the Working Groups with the assistance of their consultuats
and in consultation with the Director of Administration and Organizational Development in the Technical
Support Unit (TSU). In order to effectively design the training program, the various components will
explicitly assess the Local Government workforce that will be available to carry out the tasks for which



- 45 -
Appendix E
Page 3 of 3
the training is intended and the workplace and circumstances in the five cities, under which this workforce
would be operating. The workforcg assessment would produce: job positions with associated descriptions
of the function and tasks of each position; staff in posts, with i) grade level, ii) years of service, iii) prior
experience, and iv) prior training; staff's functional capacities relevant to the job description, identifying
separately the tasks that the staff are capable of doing but are constrained by other reasons, from the tasks
which require knowledge and skills which the staff do not have. In the (many) instances where there are
vacancies, the assessment would specify the minimum requirements that can be realistically expected of
new staff in order that they may effectively absorb the training that is planned.
10.   The workplace assessment would indicate the materials, supplies, equipment and tools that would
be needed to perform the functions and tasks set out in the job descriptions. To the extent that physical
conditions in any city are a barrier to the performance of jobs, this would be set out along with the steps
necessary to create satisfactory conditions.
11.   Other Constraints that significar.y affect prod uctivi: y also would be examined. Personnel
management, employee supervision and career develor nent issues, including ambiguity or conflicts in
lines of authority and reporting relationships, inappr )riate influences on recruitment, promotion and
discipline, and frequent changes of assignments are among the considerations that would be reviewed by
the consultants. Incentives, especially with regard to compensation relative to comparable jobs in the
cities, would be explicitly considered. Budget, transportation and other logistical requirements for
effectiveness and productivity also would be reviewed.
12.   The results of these assessments must be fed back to the appropriate Working Groups so that
remedial actions may be incorporated into the reform program prior to the initialization of the new tasks
and responsibilities.
13.   The training activities would be based on the knowledge and skills deficiencies that are identified
among the potential trainees. This is particularly important in Mozambique, given the well recognized
weakness of the workforce especially at the local level. Further, current limitations in local capacity are
likely to require ongoing efforts beyond this project. Opportunities would be used to identify follow-up
training activities that should be picked up by other capacity building programs. The training mode (on-
the-job, lectures, workshops, etc.) and location (at or away from the workplace in the cities, at regional
centers, in Maputo) by and at which these skills and knowledge would be imparted would be carefully
selected on the basis of efficiency and cost effectiveness. A realistic schedule that matches inputs to
anticipated outcomes, would be adopted. Evaluation criteria and functional tests would be explicitly
established in order to verify that the necessary knowledge and skills have been absorbed. A training
matrix summarizing the plan and its elements is to be prepared.



- 46 -
Appendix F
Page I of 2
USER DEMAND ASSESSMENTS
Background
I.    A critical test of the reform program is the extent to which it results in the provision of a
sustainable, reliable flow of municipal services in the five project cities that are of high priority and value
to their population. In this project, the preparation of the MDP in all of the project cities (Appendix C,
Part 1) and the Urban Upgrading Project in Pemba are designed to ensure that the efforts of the reform
culminate in the fulfillment of this objective; as a consequence, the results of the reform would be
manifest in the performance of these components. The capacity building and institutional development
program also is oriented towards supporting the MDPs and the Upgrading Project in achieving this
objective. A crucial step in achieving the desired results is the development and implementation of
investment programs.
II.    The success of these investment programs that are designed to provide municipal services depends
crucially on the extent to which the CECs, MCA and their consultants interpret accurately the
requirements of the potential users of those services. Experience elsewhere indicates that these potential
beneficiaries will be willing to use and pay for services when those services match their priorities and
are delivered at standards and by mechanisms that they value and can afford. This willingness to pay will
be a key to the sustainability of these services. Consequently, this project includes mechanisms through
which the potential users may express their concerns and preferences so that their views may shape the
delivery of services intended for them.
User Demand Assessment
ISI.   MCA, the local government agencies and their consultants would establish an approach specific
to local circumstances in Mozambique, including an iterative process in which they would listen to
community ideas, sketch possible alternative solutions, discuss these ideas with the community, and
progressively refine their proposals until satisfactory agreements are derived. Communities would be
identified according to several dimensions: traditional ethnic groupings, formal groupings and
associations, by geographical location, by income levels as manifest by readily identifiable living
standards, and by gender. Prior to the provision of a service, there would be a follow-up assessment to
verify that community expectations have been met. An important objective of this approach is to
institutionalize lines of communications between the community and local governments with regard to
service planning, delivery, quality and cost.
IV.   Consultants experienced in social research working on the MDPs in the project cities and the
Urban Upgrading Pilot in Pemba will conduct conversational interviews with key members of the
communities to ascertain broad attitudes towards municipal services and the constituency for particular
services. In preparing for these interviews, particular attention will be paid to ensuring that: a) a strategy
for verifying the accuracy of communication between the consultants and the community members is
established; b) key roles and actors within the communities are identified; and, c) distinctive groupings
which would have different perspectives on particular services or service standards or methods of service
delivery also are identified.



- 47 -
Appendix F
Page 2 of 2
V.    On the basis of the results of these interviews, the consultants would design the detailed steps in
the process of quantifying priorities, standards and service delivery mechanisms and associated willingness
to pay. This design would: a) identify the stages in the process of developing and refiming alternatives
for services provision at which community inputs would be necessary; b) identify the level and type of
interaction with the community (individual meetings with leaders, meetings with representative groups,
meetings with focus groups or panels, questionnaire surveys) that would be used to solicit community
views; c) identify groups and sub-groups that should be specifically targeted in the interactions; d)
develop the instruments (survey questionnaires, panel interviews, etc.) that would be used; e) identify
preparatory activities for the various interactions (training of interviewers, organization of panels, etc.).
The consultants would give priority to approaches that would facilitate institutionalizing communications
between the community and the local providers of services.
VI.   The record of the results of the initial interviews and subsequent interactions with the communities
would be copied to the local governments, MAE and the Bank for review and comments prior to
subsequent to the next stage in the planning or implementation process. As results emerge about
preferences (as to priorities, standards, service delivery mnechanisms) and willingness to pay, these results
would be fed into the planning-and design process. Willingness to pay (which also may be observed by
noting the costs of whatever substitutes for, or is consequential on, missing or inadequate public services)
would be fed into appropriate economic analyses (benefit-cost, affordability, pricing).
VII.   Before closing of this Credit, and after experience has been gained with the actual delivery of the
services, a follow-up assessment would be carried out to deternine the level of satisfaction with the
services as delivered, the extent to which expectations had been met in practice, to what extent the
communities had honored their agreements to pay for these services and to what extent the user
assessment process had contributed to the effectiveness of the design.



.48-                                 Appendix G
Page 1 of 4
REPO8LICA DE MO;AM8IQUE
MINISTERIO DA AOMINISTFAEAO ESTATAL
May 7, 1993
Mr. Edward V. L Jaycox
Vice President Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 a Street, N. W.
Washington D. C. 20433
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
1.   The  Government of  Mozambique  is  currently  undertaking  an  overall
administrative reform that will affect central- and local-level public
administration across the country. The purpose of this letter is to inform you
of the underlying policies and major measures adopted by the Government in order
to ensure and& facilitate the detailed preparation and implementation of this
reform.
Backeround
2.   Over the past six years the Government has been engaged in a program of
economic, rehabilitatLon. Under this program the role of the public sector has
progressively shifted from centralized control and extensive direct involvement
in economic activity toward a more market-oriented policy and management
strategy. During this period the Government also consldered its own structure
and concluded that our objectives of development and democratization would be
greatly facilitated by deconcentrating and ultimately, decentralizing government
administration.
3.   We included in our new Constitution (effective 30 November 1990) the basic
framework that was intended to facilitate the creation of autonomous local
governments with a distinct legal personality and administered by representatives
elected by the people. In this context the government organized a seminar on
Local organizational Reform in November, 1991. This Seminar was funded with the
assistance of the World Bank and the Municipal Development Program for Africa
(MDP/A). The basic guidelines for the reform were established and studies were
initiated to design the elements of the new local govermnent system.
4.    In May 1992, the Council of Ministers (COM) approved a set of proposals
based on a presentation by the Ministry of State Administration, which are the
core of the program for reform that are currently being pursued. These decisions
included: the approval of the principle of decentralization; that this
decentralization would be focussed at the city and district levels; that the
decentralization would be gradual, starting with five important cities (Maputo,
Beira, Nampula, Quelimane and Pemba).
S.   The COM also decided upon the coordinating structure for this program of
reform. This structure would be headed by an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC)
headed by the Minister of State Administration and including the Ministers of
Finance, Construction and Water, Labor, Justice and the Vice-Minister of
Planning. A work plan, including a timetable was also approved.



.49.                                   Appendix G
Page 2 of 4
6.   The proposals accepted by the COM included the objective of giving to lacat
governments administrative and financial autonomy and the right to own and
acquire property. Administrative autonomy incorporates the authority to takes
decisions on matters within their jurisdiction without participation by the
Central or Provincial Governments. Flnancial autonomy would include control over
thelr own budgets and having their own sources of income.
RecntJ Develousents
7.   The country has recently (October, 1992) ended several, difficult years of
internal conflict.  The cessatlon of hostilities has presented us with both
unique opportunities and critical challenges. We will now move forward with the
development and implementation of the reforms ln a far more posLtive economic and
political atmosphere, however, the necessity to move rapidly and expeditiously
to capture the momentum and benefits of peace is heightened. The Government has,
therefore, prepared a National Reconstruction Program (NRP) to facilitate the
resettlement of our people displaced by the conflict and to rebuild and extard
physical and institutional infrastructure necessary to take advantage of our
substantial potentlal for economic growth. As part of the NRP, we need to puc
Lato place as quickly as possible, public management and administrative
arrangements that facilitate our objectives of democratization and development.
DecentralizatLon, as efficted through the local government reform, is a critical
element of the NRP.
8.    In April, 1993, we held a second seminar on Local Organizational Reform and
the Role of Traditional Authorities. Several Ministers and Provincial Governors,
Local Executive Council representatives, representatives of private bodies and
emerging political parties and donors participated. The primary concluslon of
this semlnar were that the reforms should move forward as expeditiously as
possible. Among other documents, a draft of the guLdelines for the Institutional
Framework of the new autonomous local governments was discussed.
Actions To Date
9.   In order to ensure that the reform proceeds expeditiously, the Government
has established the structure for the management of the process led by the IMC.
Reporting to the IXC is an official-level inter-ministerial Coordinating Group
(CG) chaired by the Director of Local Government Administration and including the
Chairman of the three Workings Groups (WGs) that have been assigned
responsibility for preparing substantive areas of the reform. The WGs, which
also are composed of officials of several pertinent Xinistries, will prepare the
detailed proposals on Legal and Institutional reform (WGI), Fiscal and Financial
reform (WGII), and Urban/Environmental Management (WGIII). ThLs structure is
already functioning and has managed the preparation of the project which is being
proposed for World Bank assistance.
10. A background paper on the reform has been prepared by the COX and has been
submitted to the Assembly of the Republic for their consideration along with
draft principles for legislation.
Planned Activities and Approaches
11.   in order to give effect to the reform we will establish a legislative
framework wLth the following elements:
a.   an institutional law which will set out: the local organizational
structure, the composition of the elements and their governing
rules; the functions assigned to local governments; the relationship
between the central, provincial and local levels of authority; and,
the transitional rules that will govern the transfer of authority
and responsibilities from central ministries to local bodies. We
will present this law to the Assembly by June, 1994;



*50 -                                Appendix G
Page 3 of 4
b.    a financial law which will: detail the taxing authority of local
governments; identify other sources of revenues; establish the
framework and procedures for budget preparation and management;
rules for budgetary expenditures; and, the accounting and auditing
framework.  We will present this law to the Assembly by August,
1994;
c.    transfer decrees which would  give  full  force and  effect  to
implementation of all aspects of the two laws, including such
aspects as: give effect to the transfer of functions that are
associated   with   specific   responsibilities;   set   out   the
responsibilities and privileges of officials; set out the staffing
and personnel framework; outline monitoring arrangements and
instruments.  We will isnitiate the issuance of these decrees by
September, 1994.
12.   The principles which will guide the preparation of this legislative
framework are: to establish appropriate autonomy and associated responsibilities
at the municipal level consistent with efficient allocation and use of our scarce
resources. We recognize that it is critical that the functions of the various
levels of government with regard to public management and governance at the local
level are clear, consistent and with the minimum of ambiguity and overlap. It
is also crucial to ensure the full participation of the local citizens in the
processes of their government.
13.   It is  very  important to us to  establish  effective  and  efficient
municipalities as soon as possible. However, we are well aware that the current
limitations on appropriately trained and experienced human resources in the
public sector is particularly acute at the local level. We have determined,
therefore, to initiate a massive training program to accompany the transfer of
functions. This program will be aimed at the organs of government that must
carry out the new arrangements and will also provide for training and public
education for private bodies who are affected.
14.  To promote the rapid absorption of their new responsibilities, the local
governments of the five cities which will pilot these reforms will prepare
Municipal Development Programs  (MDPs).   These Programs will incorporate
institutional development and investment plans for their jurisdictions. We will
initiate the preparation of these MDPs by January, 1995.
15.   We will adopt a strategy which focusses our efforts on learning from a few
selected cases - the five cities to be supported under the proposed project -
utilizes all available resources, including the private sector and community
organizations and builds local capacity to plan and manage local development as
rapidly as possible. In implementing this project, we will organize support from
the central government agencies in a manner that is consistent with this strategy
and will strongly apply this support to these efforts. We are particularly
concerned to ensure that there is rapid feedback from these project system into
the rest of the local government system. We will monitoring this program closely
and carefully and will assess results of the initial experiences by September,
1995.   We look forward to meeting with Bank representatives during your bi-
annual review missions to exchange views on the progress of the project including
the measures we have indicated above. We particularly welcome the proposed mid-
term review so that we may have a systematic and comprehensive assessment of
results-to-date, replicating the positive lessons more widely and making
necessary corrections in a timely manner.
16.   As a result of the mid-term review we will prepare a revised program and
schedule of implementation in order to meet the objectives we have stated. We
will comunicate this revised program and schedule in a letter to the Bank by
December 1995.
17.   The reforms we are undertaking will have a major impact on the immediate
and long-term future of Mozambigue. It is imperative, therefore, that there is



Appendix G
-  - 51 -                          Page 4 of 4
wide participation within and outside of government in the deliberations at
various stages of the preparation of the plans and during the implementation
stages. We have planned that at critical points in the process there will be
carefully planned consultations among affected and interested groupe. Initially,
we anticipate that these consultations will primarily involve officials of the
central, provincial and local governments as analytical, technical and procedural
bases are being established. However, we plan to invite community and private
sector interests to participate as the definltion and scope of their potential
roles begin to take shape. We intend by this process to build a broad consensus
and commitment to the new structure and style of local government.
18.   I hope that this letter has provided you with useful understandings of the
policy, objectives, and strategies of the Government of Mozambique with regard
to local government reform in the context of decentralization and the role that
the Bank supported project would play. I look forward to our joint efforts to
bring this reform to fruition.
Sincerely,
in 57Agu Str Read Mu s io
JirVtFof Stt Administration



- 52 -
Appendix H
Page 1 of 1
CR1TERIA FOR THE PREPARADION OF RESLMT PLANS
The plan would clearly identify:
(a)   the location, numbers and socio-economic characteristics of the persons to be
relocated, as identified in a socio-economic survey;
(b)   the specific hazards and other circumstances that require that particular groups
of persons be moved;
(c)   alternative resettlement sites that are, or will be made available prior to the
moves, beginning with those environmentally satisfactory and economically
viable locations closest to the areas from which persons must be moved;
(d)   the personal and community assets (tangible and intangible) and their values
that will be lost as a result of the moves, and the compensation that will be
provided for these assets;
(e)   the tethodology and mechanisms for establishing the value of assets and the
payment of compensation;
(f)    provision of income restoration measures;
(g)   the procedures and mechanisms for involving the affected communities,
including both the displaced and host communities, in the planning and
decision-making with regards to relocation;
O)   the procedures, timetable and institutional and organzational responsibilities
for carrying out the resettement, including the recognition of legal status at
the destination sites;
(i)   the monitoring program to ensure that implementation proceeds as planned;
and
0)    the evaluation and follow-up program to ensure that unanticipated problems
arising from the resettlement are cofrected and to evaluate the effects of the
relocation on the welfare of the affected people.



- 53 -
Section L. Supervision Plan
General
L.    The project involves major institutional change, and is both complex and politically sensitive.
Careful attention will therefore have to be paid to supervision, particularly in the first year when the basic
legal, institutional, fiscal and financial framework being elaborated and agreed. After year two,
supervision requirements should decrease considerably, except for the mid-term review scheduled for
September, 1995. Supervision will be aided by the monitoring indicators presented in Section C,
Appendix B which lays out key project stages and events, and highlights key project stages and the points
at which key missions inputs are needed. Supervision will also be aided by the Consultants Matrix
(Appendix D) which summarizes consultancy procurement actions-the latter constituting most of the
procurement under the project.
IDA Supervision Input
Staff input into supervision will take the following form:
(a)    Portfolio Management Operations.  Review of work programs/schedules, reports (WGs,
Consultants, TSU and PIU), and financial statements at headquarters and correspondence and
internal reporting related to such activities are estimate to require six staff weeks in each staff
year of project implementation.
(b)    Field Supervision. The supervision of the project in the field will generally involve two missions
per year, tied to key project stages as indicated in Appendix G and the Field Supervision Plan
below. Supervision would comprise four broad areas:
(i)    Review of procurement, disbursement, and project costs;
(ii)   Review of project preparation including the progress and quality of the work of the WGs
and the consultants; support to MAE and the project cities; training, process consultation;
and preparation of the MDPs and pilot sub-projects;
(v)    Review of progress on the overall national municipal reform program (sector dialogue
on content and strategy);
(vi)   Review of coordination with other capacity building projects and other reconstruction
activities of GOM; and review of comple;nentary activities of Donors and Donor
coordination;



- 54 -
MQZAMBIQUE
LOCALQ GOVERN REDHR AND ENGINEIz; PROJECT
Approx.     Activity              Expected Skill Requirements               Staff
Date                                                                        Input
(month/                                                                     (staff
year)                                                                       weeks)
10/93    Project Launch        Municipal finance spec.; urban management   16
Workshop             spec.; procurement and disbursement offs.;
training spec.; urban planner, lawyer,
ecologist;
04/94    Progress              Municipal finance spec.; urban management    8
__________________  spec.; training spec.; urban planner;             ll
09/94    Pre-Pilot             Municipal finance spec.; urban management    8
Annual Review        spec.; training spec.; urban plamner;
03/95    Progress              urban management spec.; training spec.; urban  6
il __ _______    ______ ____________    _planner;
09/95     Mid-Term Review      Municipal finance spec.; urban management    16
spec.; procurement and disbursement offs.;
trainig spec.; urban planner, lawyer,
l ___________  ______________________   ecologist;
03/96    Progress;             training spec.; urban planner;               4
09/96    Progress;             urban management spec.; taining spec.; urban  6
l______  Annual Review            planner;
0  03/97  Annual Project       training spec.; urban planner;               4
Review; Prep. of next
stages of reform.
09/97     Project Review; Prep.  Municipal finance spec.; urban magement    16
of next stages of    spec.; procurement and disbursement offs.;
reform.              trWaining spec.; urban planner, laywer,
ecologist.
03/98     Final wrap-up        urban planner.                               2
Totali  86



IBRD 24610
3_           3, '   -6'   -                                      _
TANZANIA
-I?                         .i12*\t
ZAMBIA              ,                             t     CB 
ZAMBI  DELGADO Pemba
MALAWI'"s\
_       i   \   \           /         ~~~~~~ ~~~~NAMPULA   r
<    ~~~~~~TETE  3tfX~Nmu 
14'                                                                                 14.$.'8~~~0
CoM,^ 8oss-, Or'f-~                        
e  \  (           ~~~~~ZAMBEZIA    
1*'                                                                              16'<
/  \ |    ~Quelimarie                   INDIAN
-18'       MANICA %         \       @ gr~~~ OCEAN
C            r~~~~~~/
ZIMBABWE       7        1 SOFALA                       MOZAMBIQUE
Beira 7           LOCAL GOVERNMENT
REFORM AND ENGINEERING
PROJECT
PILOT CMES
(.                *  PROVINCE CAPllALS
\  I tNtlAMaANE             O  NATIONAL CAPffAL
-   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
9   GAZA4- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-24'                               Inhambone,
SOLITH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10I0     200    S00
AFRICA                 xat >                          o,  , I, I    I  
' tz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
-26'              ,                 )                 t                       t       2
MAY 1993



