Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24421
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1949-MOZ)
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2530-MOZ)
June 12, 2002
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Metical (plural meticais)
Average for:     US$1.00 = meticais:   Average for:     US$1.00 = meticais:
1988                525                1995                9,024
1989                745                1996               11,294
1990                929                1997               11,543
1991               1,434               1998               12,366
1992               2,517               1999               13,300
1993               3,874               2000                17,057
1994               6,039               2001               21,200
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DNAL          Directorate of Local Administration (Diretoria Nacional de AdministraJao
Local)
DNE           National Statistical Office (Direc,do Nacional de Estatistica)
ERR           Economic rate of return
FINNIDA       (former) Finnish International Development Agency (now incorporated into
Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
FRELIMO       Mozambique Liberation Front (Frente de Liberta,do de Moq,ambique - political
party of GOM)
GOM           Govemment of Mozambique
HABITAR       Housing Management and Supervision Unit (of MOPH)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
MAE           Ministry of State Administration (Ministerio da Ad?ninistrafdo Estatal)
MDP           Municipal Development Project (Cr 3549) - ongoing
MOPH          Ministry of Public Works and Housing (Ministerio de Obras Publicas e
Habita,do)
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PIU           Project Implementation Unit (for PRU)
PPAR          (OED's) Project Performance Assessment Report
PRU           Urban Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1949) (Projecto de Reabilita,do Urbana)
PROL          Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (Cr.2350) (Projecto de
Reforma dos Orgdos Locais e Engenharia)
RENAMO        Mozambique National Resistance (Resistencia Nacional de Mo,ambique -
Former rebel organization and now main opposition political party).
SME           Small and Medium Enterprises
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
TSU           Technical Support Unit (for PROL)
UNHCR         United Nations High Commission for Refugees
WGI-III       Working Groups I to III of TSU
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department       : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation            Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     : Mr. Roy Gilbert



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Of,ice of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                             June 12, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SU[.BJECT:   Mozambique: Project Performance Assessment Report
Urban Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1949-MOZ)
Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (Credit 2530-MOZ)
Attached is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) on these two projects. For the Urban Rehabilitation Project, or
PRU (Cr. 1949-MOZ), the World Bank approved a credit in an amount of SDR44.0 million
(US$60.0 million equivalent) on August 2, 1988. The credit was closed on October 31, 1996, ten
m.onths behind schedule. SDR5.3 million (US$7.4 million equivalent) was cancelled. For the
LDcal Government Reform and Engineering Project, or PROL (Cr. 2530-MOZ), the Bank
approved a credit in an amount of SDR16.4 million (US$23.2 million equivalent) on June 29,
1993. The credit was closed on March 31, 1999, one year behind schedule. SDR6.9 million
(UJS$9.8 million equivalent) was cancelled.
The Bank appraised PRU in 1988 as Mozambique's 1975-92 civil war still raged; yet project
documentation did not address the conflict. The project cities, the capital Maputo and the
country's second city Beira, suffered an influx of refugees, interrupted urban services, disrupted
trade and markets, debilitated local institutions, and insecurity with rebel activity on the urban
peripheries. PROL on the other hand, was appraised shortly after the October 1992 peace
agreement, and its design explicitly addressed post-conflict decentralization as well as
incorporating three more northern cities-Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba. PRU and PROL
were the earliest Bank-financed urban projects in Mozambique, which is among the world's
pDorest countries and one saddled with the consequences of colonialism, conflict, and a command
economy.
FRU objectives were similar to those of a standard urban project-improved infrastructure and
housing, generating employment, and strengthening local institutions-but they were not relevant
to the extraordinary situation facing Mozambique's cities in the late 1980s. Project components
included a standard package of road, drainage, sanitation and solid waste improvements, and
b-aining and technical assistance for local authorities. Most investments are in poor condition
today. PROL objectives, on the other hand, focused on decentralization and strengthening
nmunicipal administration. PROL incurred most of its expenditures on activities that achieved very
little, such as the pilot physical investments, studies and technical assistance for municipal
capacity building and fiscal reform and project management itself. Looking at the project as a
whole, its one modest achievement in decentralization came at a very high price, making it a very
iniefficient instrument for such a tenuous result. Specifically, decentralization was only tenuously
achieved when Mozambique's first municipal elections were held in 33 cities in 1998, with voter
tumout of only 10-15 percent. Legislation goveming the elections was based upon legal texts
prepared under the project.
For oversight ministries-Public Works for PRU and State Administration for PROL, weakened
by decades of war and with experience rooted in a state controlled economy, project
implementation were not edifying tasks. City authorities-initially delegates of central govem-
rnent and later locally elected municipal officials-found it difficult to keep abreast of project
clecisions taken centrally in Maputo. Project management in Maputo was unable to clearly
account for project expenditures and results. The PRU project closed without final cost tables, a



2
shortcoming that did not trouble Bank management. For PROL, the Bank ICR did not include a
Borrower contribution, yet GOM had produced two different versions.
PROL project performance was further undermined by a poor Bank-Borrower relationship from
1994 to 1998 arising from mutual misunderstandings between the task manager and the project
team in Maputo. Bank supervision missions continued during this period, but stayed only a few
days at a time in the country. Letters and faxes from Bank headquarters to Maputo were many
and peremptory, prompting non-cooperation by the PROL team. This took the form of refusing to
sign mission Aide Memoires, for instance. Digressions on trivial points of day-to-day
administration kept discussions of important development issues off the agenda. While there has
been a turnover of management on the Bank side, keeping the relationship productive will be an
issue during the implementation of the recently approved Municipal Development Project
(Cr3549), which is largely in the hands of players marked by the PROL breakdown.
Ratings: For PRU: Overall outcome, unsatisfactory, since its objectives were irrelevant and were
not achieved. Sustainability, unlikely, as physical outputs show little sign of resilience without
financing for operation and maintenance. Institutional development impact, negligible, since there
was no substantive change in the conduct of urban development business in Maputo and Beira as
a result of the project. Bank performance, highly unsatisfactory, especially for poor project
preparation and for closing the project without knowing final costs or Borrower counterpart
contributions. Borrower performance, highly unsatisfactory too, for poor project identification
and preparation, lack of compliance with auditing covenants and for not fully accounting for
project costs. For PROL: Outcome, unsatisfactory, for its failure to achieve the intended
objectives. Sustainability is rated likely, given the inevitability of decentralization in some form.
Institutional development impact, modest, for the tenuous progress with decentralization thus far.
Bank performance, highly unsatisfactory, for poor project management during implementation
that led to a break down of Bank-Borrower relations. Borrower performance, highly
unsatisfactory too, for the lack of dialogue with the Bank notably on the project's focal policy
reform, which made little progress in the end, and for poor implementation management that left
several components half finished.
Key lessons:
* Continuous and rigorous oversight by Bank management of Bank/borrower relations is
needed to detect and correct failings before project outcomes suffer.
* A perfunctory attitude by the Bank toward borrower reports of final costs, audits and ICRs
can undermine borrower accountability and learning.
* In order to succeed, projects in war-affected countries must take explicit account of the
conflict.
Attachments



O OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this, Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operatons. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
iinovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
F'PARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
F'PAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the Borrower for review; the Borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
1-he methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Foliowing is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
gloals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
tJnlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
IJnsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
lor regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
lJnsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the Borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
IJnsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.



Contents
'reface ............................................                                          iii
1. Introduction ............................................1
2. Project Design and Implementation ........2...................................2
3. Modest Assistance Toward Tenuous Decentralization ..........................   ..................4
4. Working with Debilitated Institutions ............................................5
5. Need for Greater Accountability ............................................6
6. Breakdown of Bank-Borrower relationship .............................................7
7. Conclusions and Lessons .............................................9
libliography .............................................                                    1 1
Annex A. Basic Data Sheets .....................                                              13
This report was prepared by Roy Gilbert (Task Manager), who visited Mozambique in
January/February 2002. Nalini Kumar was the peer reviewer. William B. Hurlbut edited the
report. Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.



iv
Mozambique: Urban Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1949-MOZ)
PRINCIPAL RATINGS
ICR*                        ES*                        PAR
Outcome                           Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                      Uncertain                   Unlikely                   Unlikely
Institutional Development          Negligible                  Negligible                 Negligible
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory          Highly Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                Deficient                Unsatisfactory          Highly Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Complebon Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operabonal division of the Bank.
The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE
Task Manager                Division Chief            Country Director
Appraisal                         D. Graham                    Isaac Sam               Sven Sandstrom
Completion                       Berhard Becq                Jeffrey Racki            Phyllis Pomerantz
Mozambique: Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (Credit 2530-
MOZ)
PRINCIPAL RATINGS-
ICR                         ES                        PAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                       Likely                    Uncertain                    Likely
Institutional Development            Partial                    Modest                     Modest
Bank Performance                    Deficient                Unsatisfactory          Highly Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance               Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory          Highly Unsatisfactory
KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE
Task Manager                Division Chief            Country Director
Appraisal                   Roberto Chavez/Kingsley            Isaac Sam              Phyllis Pomerantz
Robotham
Completon                         Alan Carroll               Jeffrey Racki            Phyllis Pomerantz



v
]Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment. Report (PPAR) for two operations: For the Urban
Rehabilitation Project, or PRU (Credit 1949-MOZ) the World Bank approved a credit in an
amount of SDR44.0 million (US$60.0 million equivalent) on August 2, 1988. The credit was
closed on October 31, 1996, ten months later than scheduled, when SDR5.3 million (US$7.4
million equivalent) of the credit was cancelled. For the Local Government Reform and
E]ngineering Project, or PROL (Credit 2530-MOZ), the Bank approved a credit in an amount of
SDR16.4; million (US$23.2 million equivalent) on June 29, 1993. The credit was'closed on March
3 1, 1999,1 one year later than planned, by which time SDR6.9 million (US$9.8 million equivalent)
of the credit had been cancelled.
This report is based upon reviews of the Implementation Completion Reports (Report No. 16747,
Jlune 20, 1997, for PRU, and Report No. 19789, October 12, 1999, for PROL), the Staff Appraisal
Report (Report No. 7279, July 1, 1998, for PRU) and the Memorandum of the President (Report
No. P-6049 for PROL), legal documents, and project files and on discussions with Bank staff
involved with the project. OED fielded a mission to Mozambique in January/February 2002 to
teview project results. The mission visited central government departments and project agencies
in Maputo, Beira, and Nampula. The assessment mission appreciates the courtesies and attention
given by interlocutors of the Mozambican government, local governments, and donors and the
logistical assistance provided by the Bank.'s country office in Maputo.
Following standard procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the relevant government
officials and agencies concerned for their review, but no comments were received.



1.     Introduction
1.1    When the Bank appraised the Urban Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1949)-known locally by
iits Portuguese acronym PRU-in April 1988, Mozambique's civil war still had more than four
years to run. By 1988, the conflict had engulfed the central and southern regions of the country
where the project cities of Beira and Maputo were located (see map). The second operation
reviewed here, the Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (Cr. 2530)-called PROL
iin Mozambique-was fully appraised shortly after the October 1992 Rome peace accord ending a
war that left the country one of the poorest in the world and its cities traumatized (see Box 1).
:Box 1: The Impact of War Upon Cities in Mozambique
l\ozambicans have thus far been remarkably successful in bringing peace to a country wracked by violent
conflict. From the start of the violent independence struggle 1964 until the 1992 peace agreement,
1,080,000 people died (Stewart 2001a, p. 70). The 1975-92 civil war between the FRELIMO government
and RENAMO rebels was one of Africa's most prolonged and devastating, forcing 4 to 6 million people from
Iheir homes (Bruck 2001 p. 67). The government moved as many as 1.8 million to 'communal villages' or
camps, often on urban peripheries, to prevent contact with the rebels (Cabrita 2000 p. 118). The conflict also
destroyed infrastructure and productive assets throughout the country, especially in rural areas, where the
rebels were based. Although often not theaters of military action, Mozambique's cities paid dearly for the
war. Their relative secunty attracted thousands of rural refugees. Urban populations swelled, overcrowding
scarce housing and stretching already precarious urban services. The population in one of the most affected
cities, Chi,moio in central Mozambique, tripled to 150,000 (Stewart et al. 2001a p. 111). The influx of war
widows led to men being outnumbered by women by 20 percent (Schubert 1995 p. 502). An independent
survey of, PRU's Polana Canigo B upgrading site in Maputo, found over half the residents to be recent
migrants from rural areas (Knauder 2000 p. 99). City electrical power and water services were disrupted by
frequent rebel attacks on supply lines. Landmines and attacks on buses, trucks, and trains moving between
government and rebel-controlled areas made access to cities by land difficult. Food shortages led to soaring
prices in cities as shipments from rural areas were disrupted, or as rebel action forced farming to be ab-
andoned altogether. Cities had to rely upon irnports or intemational relief for their basic staples. As the war
progressed, moreover, military operations encroached upon the cities themselves. RENAMO rebels came
within 20 kilometers of Maputo, and 8 kilometers of Beira, and were active within the city limits of Nampula,
lor instance. The cessation of hostilities in 1992 brought relief to cities under siege, but population pressures
upon them eased only in 1996 after some 4 to 6 million people had been peacefully resettled. Project
Implementation, therefore, was in crisis cities coping with war and its afternath.
1.2    Both projects assisted Mozambique's urban areas, where 39 percent of the country's
population currently lives, making the country more urbanized than sub-Saharan Africa in
greneral-at 34 per cent. PRU focused upon rehabilitating services and housing of the capital city
Maputo (pop. 1.4 million) and Mozambique's second city Beira (pop. 0.5 million). To these two,
PROL added three smaller cities in the north, Nampula (pop. 240,000), Quelimane (pop.
160,000), and Pemba (pop. 80,000)-see map. The follow-on Municipal Development Project
(Cr. 3549), approved on July 19, 2001, plans to benefit the same five PROL cities.'
1.3    These cities host many poor people, but neither project reviewed here directly addressed
urban poverty nor its alleviation. Official estimates for 1991 indicate that 52.8 percent of the
Ipopulation of Maputo was living in absolute poverty, on less than one dollar per household
member per day. For 1997, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) reports
that 62 per cent of the urban population lived below the national poverty line in Mozambique,
1. The Bank's official position had been to limit assistance to two cities only, to prevent the new project becoming too
complex and risky to implement. Nevertheless, at the government's insistence, all five cities were included. (Letter
Erom Bank to PROL team dated February 5, 1999)



2
AUD 31=          `        NIANA :                close to the 69 per cent of the rural
¼    'i )population similarly reported for that
year (IFAD 2002)3- In cities, the poor-
V-MW     :                               '\  many of them war refiigees-live mostly
.AMb5*'AWlt C .-}'                  in large settlements on the urban
penphery that have few basic urban
''.' *Il N,        /        services, or none at all.
2.     Project Design and
Implementation
-,2~>  > t-  9  ;  ; p   ,  .  2.1  Despite its large scale and
1m"BaWE -E  '-    .   .                        pervasiveness, Molambiques urban
tX'i2l ..GURXE , |      ,. ..poverty was not in the sights of the
-,     l !OEO ASSESSMENVMISSION,    objectives of either PRU or PROL (see
t    4z  s  sl jANUARY' 2002,  Box 2). The PRU operation was an
''b_t  , .* p0UI I.dPRCrACe.3'`  ordinary urban project that eventually
K. 5 , O  PROL2i '". I      failed to deliver its outputs or achieve its
\ } | | ~~~~~CS=l'c,e'sV--"dbyOED mass
-- .   ,'   l,l, .,' - ,,  :, |l  aims in the extraordinarily difficult
*  ~  .     . . i~*. circumstances of Mozambique's cities
.p5  E   '1  _  *jr'y*lorsB-.;* ' " facing war and poverty. The project
~~SOUJH  V   ¼' ~~~~~~documentation does not mention the
|., , Ci' :'.s" '.  |   -  conflict, urban poverty or market reform
.-        ,    >1l.      ,       ,. . .  among the sector issues it reviewed.3 The
project never adequately involved the
city authorities of Maputo and Beira, at
the front line in the crisis. This led to an
ambitious scope and complex design that strained the human and financial resources available to
these cities. 4 Given the acute urban poverty and refugee crisis they confronted in 1988, more
emergency relief-which was provided by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees -
UTNHCR-might have been a more appropriate response to the Mozambique's needs than an
ordinary development project.
2.2    Implementation of PRU's two largest components-infrastructure and housing-was
undermined by lack of counterpart funds, complicated GOM procurement procedures, weak local
contractors and inadequate project staffing. Demand for the lines of credit for small and medium
businesses and construction materials was weak and what was disbursed was not properly
monitored. Project technical assistance too made little headway. A key intended recipient,
GOM's housing agency HABITAR, was closed down, even though it had been specially set up to
implement the project's housing component.
2. The IFAD figures imply that 36 per cent of Mozamnbique's poor live in cities, almost twice the 20 per cent share as-
sumed by the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS 2000 p.20) and its predecessors of 1995 and 1997. An upward
revision of the CAS parameter of urban poverty might call for more country strategy attention to issues of urban devel-
opment and improving the livability of the six million poor people in Mozambique's cities. OED's country assistance
review of Mozambique found earlier that the Bank had given too l ittle attention from the Bank (Landau 1998 p. 18).
3. PRU-SAR paras. 1.04 and 1.06-1.13.
4. PRU-ICR paras. 6-7. The [CR's conclusion endorses OED's earlier country review which found PRU to be unduly
ambitious, overtaxing the limited capacity of a government engaged in war at the time of appraisal (Landau 1998 p. 18)



3
]Box 2: Objectives and Components of l'RU and PROL Projects
PRU - Urban Rehabilitation Project                 PROL - Local Government Reform and
rCredit 1949)                            Engineering Project (Credit 2530)
Objectives:                                          Objectives:
Rehabilitate key elements of urban infrastructure and  Support the Borrower's decentralization and municipal
s;helter (in Maputo and Beira)                       capacity building programs in the project cities
Provide employment through labor-intensive construction  Assist the Borrower to create a suitable municipal
methods and stimulation of small and micro-enterprises  investment policy framework, prepare urban investment
Strengthen the local institutions responsible for provision  plans, and carry out pilot subprojects
and maintenance of urban infrastructure and services
SSupport Borrower efforts toward making said institutions
financially independent through cost-recovery measures &
a long-term resource mobilization strategy at the local level
Components (estimated* costs in US$ million):        Components (actual costs in US$ million):
Rehabilitation of infrastructure - roads, drainage,  Legal and institutional reform - legal framework for
sanitation, and coastal protection ($24.3m.)        implementation, training & capadty building skills ($0.7m.)
Housing rehabilitation - high-rise buildings, sites and  Fiscal, financial, and organizational reform - strengthening
services, upgrading and resettlement ($23.2m.)      fiscal transfer system, mobilizing local resources, financing
Solid waste management ($4. Im.)                     urban services, information systems ($3.7m.)
Lines.of credit for SMEs & building mate.als ($4.9m.)  Urban and environmental management - municipal
t.ines of credit for SMEs & bulding materials (S4.9m.)  development programs, pilot subprojects (Pemba
Institutional developmentplanning capacity, strengthening,  upgrading; Nampula environmental planning; Beira bicycle
training, employment generation, land titing, financial  transport; five cities rapid mapping; Maputo land
strengthening ($3.4m.)                              information system) and resettlement plans ($5.0m.)
Project administration ($3. Im.)                    Institutional capacity building/project management (3. 7m.)
Actual costs not reported for PRU.
;ource: Technical and legal documentation of respective pgiect.
2.3      PRU's extraordinarily complex housing rehabilitation component ran into many
problems. Although some apartmnents in the decrepit high rise buildings were refurbished, they
were not affordable to the intended low-income beneficiaries. Contrary to the component's intent,
the original residents could not afford to stay and were replaced by higher income households,
such as mid-level officials of the Central Bank, for instance. The high cost of this kind of
operation-US$7.6 million for 994 apartments at appraisal-also led to the bankruptcy of one of
the contractors involved. In hindsight, GOM could have sold these buildings and given the job to
a private real developer
2.4      More straightforward housing operations under PRU did not prosper, either. In Beira,
poor drainage forced the abandonment of Inhamizua site as a viable urban residential community,
even though it had been upgraded and serviced by the project. Today it is flooded and the sire is
used as rice fields. Difficulties of appraising and supervising works on a poorly chosen site-1 5
kilometers from the city center and often under rebel control-no doubt contributed to the highly
umsatisfactory outcome.
2.5     Infrastructure was poorly implemented, as evidenced from the works visited by the OED
mission. Today, vehicles avoid the central roadways of upgraded streets in Maputo's Mahotas
neighborhood, for instance, where the broken (and originally thin) pavement-introduced as part
of the project's housing rehabilitation component--ensures a rougher ride than the unpaved
s:houlders do. Similarly, there were no improvements to the street network of Maputo's Polana
Canico B neighborhood that had been slated for upgrading with new infrastructure at appraisal.



4
Main access roads to these neighborhoods, also financed by PRU, are in poor condition today.
The water distribution network in the low-income neighborhood of Bairro Ferroviario, also in
Maputo-part of the project's infrastructure rehabilitation-remains dry and still unconnected to
a reliable supply. Today, water vendors thrive in a low-income neighborhood supposedly served.
2.6    PROL, on the other hand, got off to a better start. The war had ended and the project was
appropriately harnessed to GOM's policy agenda of decentralization, a potentially important
instrument for including RENAMO in the post-war political settlement, and hence for
consolidating peace. Thus PROL's project objectives deserve a high rating for relevance.
2.7    PROL unraveled during implementation, however. Weak GOM institutions, inept
management by the Bank, a lack of trust and eventual breakdown of the Bank-Borrower
relationship led to failure. Only half the expected expenditures of US$24.5 million were made.
Even so, some PROL components incurred significant costs with insignificant results. US$3.9
million was spent on preparing designs pilot sub-projects for the cities-more than 80 percent of
total amount budgeted for preparation and implementation-none of these sub-projects was
actually built. US$3.7 million-twice the amount estimated at appraisal-was spent on fiscal and
financial reforms. While many studies were undertaken,5 municipal financial capacity did not
strengthen, as hoped.6 Despite double the spending intended, some technical assistance to
municipal councils was cancelled for lack of financial resources.' Furthermore, coordination
difficulties prevented consultants from actually bringing their advice to the councils.8 Even so,
project management-including staff training-represented an overhead of some 25 per cent of
total costs.
3.     Modest Assistance Toward Tenuous Decentralization
3.1    The only positive outcome of these projects was PROL's modest contributions in
drafting legislation that was to help Mozambique decentralize some responsibilities to selected
municipal authorities. But even this achievement was a flawed one for a number of reasons,
however.
3.2    First, a successful legal challenge to the constitutionality of the seven laws drafted by
PROL in 1995 forced GOM to seek a constitutional amendment, whose approval by parliament
took two years. This meant delaying municipal elections until 1998. Furtherrnore, the text of the
regulatory code necessary for implementing the laws-except that for the electoral law itself-
was only completed in 2001.
3.3    Second, opposition parties, including RENAMO boycotted the elections. Restricting
those elections to 33 cities only-which accounted for half the country's urban population-was
a FRELIMO gerrymander, according to the opposition. Partly as a result of this, voter turnout was
very low indeed; only 10 per cent in Maputo and not more than 15 per cent in other cities.
5. The PROL-ICR-02/99 reports several difficulties with these studies, such as: (i) insufficient time for proper data
collection; (ii) lack of pride in the work and a desire to see it finished as quickly as possible; (iii) lack of local personnel
in the cities to interact with the consultant teams doing the studies; (iv) failure to train local personnel to ensure that
study findings would be implemented. PROL-ICR-02/99 pp. 64-65.
6. Ibid. p. 25
7. Ibid. p. 44
8. Ibid. p. 43.



5
3.4    Third, fiscal decentralization made no real progress. Municipalities are as financially
dependent upon central government today as before 1998. The framework of municipal finance
and revenue sharing arrangements with central government still has to be defined.
3.5    Finally, the PROL project itself proved to be a very inefficient instrument for producing
these laws. Drafting them cost only US$0.7 million, half the appraisal estimate and only five
ipercent of total project costs. But PROL incurred US$12.2 million additional expenditures for
other components, with very little to show for it. ' Bank staff and management informed that these
additional 'collateral' costs were a worthwhile and necessary price to pay to engage the
government in producing the legislative package. While such trade-offs are a valid part of urban
project design, they should not be excessive, or fall upon components with few results of their
own. Furthermore, they are not necessary when a borrower is committed to the priority
,omponent, as GOM was with the municipal legislation package.
4.     Working with Debilitated Institutions
4.1    Apart from those directly linked to the war effort, GOM institutions were weakened by
years of conflict that undermined their capacity and finances. Some 50 percent of GOM's budget
nre still financed by external donors. For PRU and PROL, this meant project offices dependent
upon Bank funding for almost everything, from office equipment and supplies to complementing
project staff salaries. Official salary scales are kept artificially low by GOM in Mozambique, and
hlad to be. topped up by the projects. Without that, good quality staff could be attracted and
retained, as central government and municipal administrations know too well.
4.2    The PRU team found it difficult to manage and control the physical and financial
progress of the project. They had, for instance, scheduled major expenditures for the Maputo
wvater component that could only be reimbursed after credit closing, something quite impossible
for the Bank to do. Only after a Bank consultant detected the impending problem, was emergency
action taken to extend the credit closing, thereby allowing the Bank to disburse the necessary
funds. This timely action-which should have been initiated earlier by the PRU team-avoided a
heavy financial burden upon the govemment arising from its legal obligation to pay the
contractor.
4.3    Under PROL, the central team in Maputo had difficulties in monitoring the status of pilot
project investments in the five cities. In their discussions with the OED mission, the team
reckoned that pilot investments in all five cities were ready for implementation. Only Bank
unwillingness to extend the credit closing date had prevented it. But upon arriving later in the city
(of Nampula, the OED mission found no readiness for implementation there. Sites for a planned
rnarket and school had not been identified, and none were available in the target neighborhood.
P'rotracted land acquisition-which had not begun-would have resulted in still more delays. In
any case, there were insufficient project ftmds for execution, since most had been spent on the
clesign work itself. There was a similar lack of preparedness in Beira, where planning to accom-
raodate the proposed increase in bicycle traffic within the city's street network had not begun.
4.4   In Nampula, the city was unable to retain staff to manage the computer mapping system,
piart of PROL's capacity building efforts. The equipment was installed, but without trained staff
9. Pilot sub-,projects (US$5.0 million) were not implemented (para. 2.7), municipal fiscal and financial reforms
(US$3.7 million) did not occur (para 2.7) and project management itself (US$3.7 million)-representing a 27 per cent
overhead for the project as a whole-cost five times the municipal legislation package.



6
to operate it. City officials informed the OED mission that they did not have the budget to attract
and retain the necessary staff. There was a similar disuse of a sophisticated computer network in
Maputo city hall, designed to help municipal financial management across departments. This time
for lack of training, it was used instead only for word processing tasks at disconnected
workstations. PROL's pilot Land Information System for Maputo made little headway too, as
important landowners were reluctant to reveal their patrimony to the authorities for fear of having
to pay taxes.
4.5    Maputo city's severely limited service capacity was on show during the OED's visit. It
took the form of piles of uncollected garbage in the city streets throughout the downtown.
According to city authorities later interviewed by the OED mission, the cause was insufficient
collection equipment-only three vehicles in working order, as reported in a local newspaper.'"
The earlier PRU project had supported this service through a US$4.1 million solid waste
component (See: Box 2).
5.     Need for Greater Accountability
5.1    Tracking of and accounting for project expenditures was precarious, especially under
PRU. A management letter accompanying the FY94 audit sought clarifications about why Bank
disbursements for vehicles and consultants had exceeded credit agreement ceilings by SDR
180,218 and SDR 925,426, respectively. Total GOM counterpart expenditures on the project-
SAR estimates were for US$6 million-are still not known to the Bank. Repeated Bank requests
for the PRU team in Maputo to assemble final cost data for the ICR met with promises, but no
data. The Bank country department's decision to ignore the final costs as unimportant" may have
allowed the ICR to be delivered on time. But it signaled to the borrower that the Bank cares little
for the final accountability of its own and counterpart resources used for the projects. OED too
requested to see the final cost data during its mission to Mozambique, but without success.
5.2    A subsequent financial audit of PRU accounts by the project auditors-delivered late and
after the Bank ICR had been issued-found unexplained debits and deposits in the project special
account in amounts of US$357,853.'2 OED was unable to deduce from the project files how this
matter was resolved, if at all. The Bank was remiss for not insisting on the full accountability of
these operations. Financial audits are important instruments of accountability, constituting
valuable anti-corruption tools when used with vigor.
5.3    The Bank was remiss at the closing of both PRU and PROL. Neither Bank ICR included
the required borrower ICR-indispensable to the valuable borrower perspective on the results of
an operation. The stories of the two projects in this respect could not have been more different,
though. For PRU, OED was unable to bring the borrower ICR to light even after inquiries in
Washington and Maputo. For PROL, the Region produced a borrower ICR (dated June 1999) at
OED's request at the ICR review stage, and later another quite different borrower ICR (dated
February 1999) was handed to the OED mission in Maputo.'3 The coverage of the February 1999
ICR, called the "PROL-ICR-02/99" in this report-was much broader and more critical of the
10. Noticias Maputo January 23, 2002.
11. Internal Bank memos to task manager from country director dated January 29, 1997 and April 1, 1997.
12. PRU auditor's report for financial year ended 31 December, 1996, p. 6.
13. The Bank's operational department in the Region informs that it did not receive a copy of this report.



7
project performance. For this assessment OED used both versions. Borrower consistency and
coherence in evaluation, though, would have been better served by one report only.
6.     Breakdown of Bank-Borrower relationship
6.1    Most evident at the level of the Borrower project team/Bank task team in PROL, the
breakdown was protracted over a four-year period between 1994 and 1998. The PROL-ICR itself
has several candid references to the difficulties of Bank-borrower interaction (paras. 21, 26-31
and 35). It distracted both parties from the pursuit of the project objectives, and even led to the
Bank's exclusion from dialogue on refonns that had been at the heart of the project.'4 Even the
simple execution of PROL pilot physical projects made no headway, as communications between
Washington and Maputo became dysfunctional. OED could detect a general malaise among the
project team in Maputo, if not in Washington. Despite knowledge of the poor Bank handling of
this relationship during 1994-98-evident from correspondence at the time and unsigned aide
m6moires now in the project files'5-Bank management did not see fit to take remedial action
then.'6 It is an issue that still poses risks today. The new MDP project (Cr3549) is largely in the
hands ofiplayers marked by the PROL breakdown, although OED recognizes that considerable
efforts have been made to cultivate an improved relationship for the benefit of new operation. '7
6.2    Things got off to a bad start during the PROL appraisal, when the failure of the Bank's
task team to distribute project documents to the MAE minister, led to a complaint to the Bank.'8
The Bank then further upset the Borrower by assigning four different task managers over the
1992-94 period. The PROL team explained to the OED mission that it had not invoked minister-
level help to resolve issues like these, suggesting that conflict containment measure were either
not in place or not working in Maputo.
6.3    The Bank nevertheless fielded ten supervision missions to Mozambique, but most stayed
for only a few days. Bank-Borrower disagreements over mission timings were documented on at
least two occasions.'9 PROL communication with the Bank task manager during implementation
was difficult, and task manager decision-making was unpredictable and inconsistent, according to
the borrower.20 Mission Aide M6moires for PROL fell into disuse,2' a serious shortcoming for
what theBank considers to be its "main instrument for written communication with the Borrower
and project management."22 Early Aide Memoires prepared in the field went unsigned by PROL
14. Bank PROL-ICR paras. 26-3 1. In the words of the ICR, para. 28.
15. The problems were not captured by supervision mission reports, however, which usually rated borrower project
management to be satisfactory.
16. From OED meetings held with them in Washington, this remains the position of the managers involved.
17. Paradoxically, documentation of the new project refers to "a relationship of confidence with the MAE in particular"
Mozambique: Municipal Development Project (Cr3549) SAR p. 18. This contradicts the clear Bank ICR emphasis on
the breakdown of this relationship PROL-ICR.
18. Internal Bank note of July 15, 1993.
19. Fax from PROL management to Bank dated January 23, 1995. Internal Bank e-mail of March 26, 1997, proposing
the intermediation of the Bank resident representative.
20. PROL-ICR-02/99 p. 55 and p. 57
21. PROL-'ICR-02/99 p. 54.
22. As noted in paragraph 29 of Guidelines to staff on project supervision, issued in support of Bank OP 13.05 on
Project Supervision.



8
management, who disagreed with their content. Later, what purported to be Aide Memoires were
prepared unilaterally by the Bank's task team in Washington. The Bank's own guidelines state,
however, that Aide Memoires "should be discussed with the Borrower and project management
and record agreed actions."23
6.4    Other correspondence from the Bank in Washington to the project team in Maputo during
implementation was peremptory in tone and strong on minor administrative matters,24 while not
conveying leadership by addressing key development issues or to achieve the project's objectives.
The poor relationship had taken policy issues off the agenda, according to the Bank ICR, as
reported earlier.' Correspondence from PROL to the Bank was thin in the project files.
Allegations of undelivered mail and documents nevertheless abound.
6.5    On the Borrower side, misunderstandings about the role of the Bank persist despite nearly
15 years of joint work in the urban sector in Mozambique. Early on, the PROL team organized a
project launch seminar in Maputo without inviting or even informing the Bank. Upon hearing
about this, the task manager had to remind PROL management in Maputo that the Bank is not
normally excluded from these events.26 Lack of familiarity with the Bank's safeguard policy on
involuntary resettlement-despite its restatement in PROL project documentation-led the
PROL team to falsely believe that the Bank task manager's insistence that the Pemba city
upgrading scheme meet involuntary resettlement requirements, was merely a whim of that
individual.
6.6    Toward the end of project implementation, the PROL team was upset that a consultant's
contract could not be extended beyond the agreed closing date of the Credit.2" In discussions with
the OED mission, the PROL management demonstrated that it was unfamiliar with the process of
extending project-closing dates, again believing that such matters are decided unilaterally by the
task manager. Also, a lack of appreciation of the Bank's heavy fiduciary responsibilities toward
ensuring the correct use of its funds left the team in Maputo feeling that Bank controls had been
excessive. The predecessor PRU's insufficient accountability could help explain greater caution
by the Bank in the oversight of the follow-on PROL.
6.7     The Borrower PROL-ICR-02/99 laments the "lack of a simple and effective channel of
communication with the staff responsible for the PROL project in Washington."28 Several OED
mission interlocutors in Maputo reckoned that the Bank and GOM still do not understand each
other too well. Language may be an issue here. The Borrower ICR called attention to inadequate
command of Portuguese-by foreign consultants in particular-which undermined contributions
23. Ibid.
24. Examples of Bank letters included: (i) Withheld the Bank's no-objection on account of overspending by five US
cents on a contract to buy office stationary in an amount of approximately US$I 1,000 (August 24, 1995); (ii) very
detailed questioning why the use of Lotus 123 instead of Microsoft software as part of a computer purchase contract for
less than US$25,000 (March 21, 1996) (iii) rebuke to PROL team for rapid staff tumover within a consultancy contract
in one city (December 2, 1997).
25. This was a very serious handicap for a policy-oriented operation. The constraint was confirmed in subsequent
discussions in Washington with Bank staff involved.
26. Bank letter to PROL management dated January 20, 1995.
27. Bank letter to PROL management dated September 15, 1997. As discussed earlier, a similar problem occurred at
the closing of PRU.
28. PROL-ICR-02/99 pp. 42, 55 and 57. Resulting delays in Bank communicating 'no-objections' are highlighted.



9
to the project.19 As well as linguistically, Bank communication has to excel in tone, speed,
responsiveness, and information content.30 The Bank's operational department for the Region
informs that there has been a complete tum around on the language issue, now that Bank teams
are now entirely Portuguese-proficient.
7.     Conclusions and Lessons
Ratings
7.1    PRU: The relevance of most of the major objectives was negligible to the development
priorities of cities facing urban poverty on an enormous scale still today and on-going civil war at
the time of appraisal. Project efficacy is considered negligible since none of the four objectives
was achieved. Project efficiency is also rated negligible, given the very high costs incurred for the
insignificant benefits reaped. Overall outcome is therefore rated unsatisfactory, given the failure
to achieve most of these objectives. Sustainability is rated unlikely, since the limited physical
outputs of the project show little sign of resilience. Institutional development impact is rated
negligible, since no significant changes occurred in the conduct of urban development business in
Mozamblique as a result of the project. Bank performance is rated highly unsatisfactory
principally for the very poor quality at entry of the project. Borrower performance is rated highly
unsatisfactory for the government's failure to take into account at the design stage the economic,
financial, and resource constraints upon the project and for poor implementation management,
especially as far as cost control and timely actions were concerned.
7.2    PROL: The relevance of both project objectives supporting decentralization and
municipal strengthening was substantial. Project efficacy was negligible, however, owing to the
failure to implement the project's physical components, municipal capacity building, and
financial! strengthening as well as the very modest assistance toward a tenuous decentralization
process. Project efficiency was also negligible, since considerable costs were incurred for very
little result. Overall outcome is therefore rated unsatisfactory; for the failure to achieve the two
project objectives. Sustainability is nevertheless rated likely, given the political imperative of
continuing with decentralizationin some form in Mozambique. Institutional development impact,
at the heart of the project's raison d'etre, is rated modest, given that a few elements of the
,decentralization framework are in place. Bank performance was highly unsatisfactory especially
during implementation, when poor management helped bring down a potentially successful
project and led to a breakdown in Bank-Borrower relations. Borrower performance was also
highly unsatisfactory, for the lack of dialogue with the Bank notably on the project's focal
policy reform, which made little progress in the end, and for 'poor implementation management
that left several components half finished.
'Conclusions
7.3    The results of more than a decade of Bank assistance to Mozambique's cities-whose
prosperity is key to the country's future development-have been disappointing. Performance in
29 Ibid. pp. 48 and 65
30. A parallel OED assessment of eight adjustment projects in Mozambique found that past communications failures
helped fuel a damaging and still lasting impression in the country that Bank support for trade liberalization in cashew-
lMozambique's principal cash-crop export-was designed to kill off a promising cashew processing industry there. The
issue came to a head during Mr. Wolfensohn's 1997 visit to the country, when he was publicly criticized for this (OED
:'002 p. 22)



10
this sector has not matched the upbeat assessment of Mozambique's development achievements
in the latest CAS (World Bank 2000 para. 1), nor the 80 percent satisfactory rate of the 20 other
completed projects evaluated by OED to date. In this case, the Bank did not take a careful reading
of the extraordinarily difficult conditions facing the country's cities-particularly war, poverty,
and structural adjustment. The Bank still needs to give more attention to the role of cities in the
country's economy and the government's modest yet politically significant decentralization
reform. Borrower project teams in Maputo, working under constraints imposed by their
debilitated agencies, did help prepare the follow-on MDP project, but still have a lot to learn
about successfully implementing a Bank-financed project. Poor communication all round and a
protracted breakdown of Bank-Borrower relations helped stall learning on both sides. Improved
communications must be part of the solution. New players and institutions should be involved for
this to be achieved.
Lessons
7.4    Continuous and rigorous oversight by Bank management of Bank/borrower relations
is needed to detect and correct failings before project outcomes suffer. The PROL experience
showed how a breakdown in this relationship halted the policy and reform dialogue that had been
at the heart of the project and prevented the implementation of the operation's physical
components.
7.5    A perfunctory attitude by the Bank toward borrower reports offinal costs, audits and
ICRs can undermine borrower accountability and learning too. By not insisting on finalized
PRU project accounts, financial audits, and a Borrower ICR for PRU, the Bank conveyed to the
Borrower a lack of its seriousness about project control and accountability.
7.6   In order to succeed, projects in war-affected countries must take explicit account of the
conflict. As the failed PRU experience demonstrated, peace-time objectives such introducing
formal credit instruments for SMEs, strengthening routine maintenance capabilities and instilling
financial independence through cost recovery in local institutions, do not thrive in cities under
siege.



Bibliography
Ayisi, Ruth Ansah "Mozambique: The Urban Influx" in Africa Report November-December
1989.
Braathen, E. and B.V. Jortgensen. 1998. "Democracy without People: Local Government Reform
and 1998 Municipal Elections in Mozambique" in: Lusotopic 1998 pp. 31-39.
Bruck, Tilman. 2001. "Mozambique: The Economic Effects of the War" in: (Stewart et al. 2001b)
Cabrita, Joao M. 2000. Mozambique. The Tortuous Road to Democracy Basingstoke, Palgrave.
Chigono, Mark F. 2001. "Mozambique: War, Economic Change, and Development in Manica
Province, 1982-1992" in: (Stewart et al. 2001b)
Dia, Mamadou. 1996. Africa's Management in the 1990s and Beyond Washington DC, World
Bank.
Economist Intelligence Unit. 2001. Mozambique: Country Profile 2001 London, EIU.
IFAD. 2002. Assessment of Rural Poverty: Eastern and Southern Africa Rome, International
Fund for Agricultural Development
Knauder, Stefanie. 2000. Globalization, UJrban Progress, Urban Problems, Rural Disadvantages:
Evidence from Mozambique Aldershot, Ashgate
Lachartre, Brigitte. 1999. "tlections municipales et democratisation au Mozambique" in:
Politique africaine No. 75 October 1999.
Landau, Luis. 1998. Rebuilding the Mozambique Economy Washington DC, The World Bank
OED Country Assistance
Marshall, Katherine. 1998 From War and Resettlement to Peace Development: Some Lessons
from Mozambique and UNHCR and World Bank Collaboration Cambridge, Harvard
Institute for International Development, Discussion Paper No. 633.
DED - Operations Evaluation Department. 2002. Project Performance Assessment Report of
Eight Adjustment Projects in Mozambique Washington D.C. The World Bank.
Republic of Mozambique (undated) Relatorio de Avalia,ao Final do Projecto PROL Maputo,
Direcgao Nacional da Administragao Local.
Republic of Mozambique. 1992. Relatorio Sobre os Resultados do 2o M6dulo do Inquerito as
Familias na Cidade de Maputo. Maputo, Direc9ao Nacional de Estatistica.
Schubert, Bemd. 1995. "Poverty and Poverty Alleviation Programmes in the Urban Areas of
Mozambique" in: Habitat International Vol. 19 No. 4.
Stewart, Frances; Valpy FitzGerald and Associates. 2001a. War and Underdevelopment: Volume
1 - The Economic and Social Consequences of Conflict Oxford, Oxford University Press
Stewart, Frances; Valpy FitzGerald and Associates. 200 lb. War and Underdevelopment: Volume
2 - Country Experiences Oxford, Oxford University Press
United Nntinns Centre for Human Settlements - UNCHS. Urban Indicators.
World Bank. 2000. Country Assistance Strategy: Mozambique Washington DC, World Bank.
World Bank. 2001. World Development Report:2000/2001: Attacking Poverty. Washington D.C.,
The World Bank.



13
Annex A. Basic Data Sheets
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1949-MOZ)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                    Actual or
estimate                 current estimate
Total project costs                                      83.8                          na
Loan amount                                              60.0                         53.7
Cofinancing                                              17.8                          na
Cancellation                                              0                           6.3
Date physical components completed                       12/94                       09/96
Economic rate of return                                  39%                           na
Institutional performance                                  -
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY89    FY90    FY91     FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95     FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate (US$ millions)   1.0     8.0    22.0    38.0     52.0    58.0    60.0    60.0     60.0
Actual (US$ millions)              7.8      9.1    18.3    30.1     43.1    48.1    51.0    52.1     53.6
Actual as % of estimate          781.0%   113.0%  83.0%    79.0%   83.0%   88.0%   86.8%    89.1%   89.3%
Date of final disbursement: 1/9/97
Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                              Date planned*                   Date actual
Identification                                                                     October 1987
Preparation                                                                   January - February 1988
Appraisal                                                                           April 1988
Negotiations                                                                     June 20-24, 1988
Board presentation                                                                August 2, 1988
Signing                                                                          October 19, 1988
Effectiveness                                                                    February 14, 1989
Midterm Review (if applicable)                                                     March 1992
Project Completion                                 December 1994                 September 1996
Credit Closing                                   December 31, 1995               October 31, 1996
"As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of project cycle                                Actual
Weeks          US$ thousands
Through appraisal                               71.4                  165.9
Appraisal-Board                                  9.0                   21.4
Board-Effectiveness                             14.0                   25.5
Supervision                                    109.3                  270.3
Completion                                      13.0                   30.3
Total                                          216.7                  513.4



14
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1949-MOZ) CONT.
Mission Data
Stage of project cyc/e            No. of  Staff days in Specialized staff skills  Performance rating0                                            Types of problems
Monthly persons      field      represented a/    Implementation Development
ear                                                  Status Objectives          Legal     Project Mgmt.  Avail. Funds
Through Appraisal:
Identificaton            Oct-87     5         12            a.d.g,            na
Pre-appraisal            Jan-88     6         15           A,d,e,f,g          na
Appraisal to Board       Apr-88     9         16          A,d,e,f,g,h,l       na
Board to Effectiveness
Sep-88     5          5           d,h,m,l,g          na
Jan-89     1          7              d               na                                                                    Institutional
Supervision
May-89     2         15             A,e               1              1             1             1             2
Jul-89     1         2              A                             No 590
Sep-89     6          2             A,j                           No 590
Oct-89     5         12            d,e,g,i            1              1             1             1            2            Institutional
Jan-90     2         14             d,z                           No 590
Mar-90     1         11              G                            No 590
May-90     4         18            d,e,g,k            1              1             1             1             1           Procurement
Sep-90     2          2            d,e,g,k            1           No 590           1             1             1          Procurement
Oct-90     4         12            d,h,l.e            1             2              1             2            1           Procurement
Feb-91     2          2             A,e                           No 590
Feb-91     3         30             d,e               1              2             1             2             1        Coastal component
Sep-91     2          4             A,z            No 590
Nov-91     3         11            d,e,n              2              2             1             2             1
Mar-92     3         13            d,e,n              2              1             1             1            2        Weak local capacity
Oct-92     2          6             d,e                           No 590                                               Weak local capacity,
sustainability
Apr-93     1          2              0                            No 590
Jun-93     2          6             d,e                           No 590                                                Capacity, finance
Sep-93     1          3              0                            No 590
Jan-94     1          7              0                            No 590
Jan-94     2         11             d,a               2              2             1             1            2            Solid waste,
sustainability
Jun-94     2          3             d.z                           No 590
Oct-94     2          2             d,e                           No 590
Feb-95     1          3              d                S              S             2             2            2
Apr-95     1          3              d                            No 590
Jul-95     2         6              A,d                             S              2            2             2
Nov-95     2          5             d,a
Feb-96     2          3             d,a               U              U             3             3            2           management
Legend for skills:                               c=transport pl fthousing   l=sanitation     I=procurement            0-operations
A=financial analyst                              d=urban plan g=institutional d  j=water     m=Bank manager   z-not specified
B=transport economist  e=engineer h=legal                       k=geographer n-GIS



15
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2530-MOZ)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                   Actual or
estimate                 current estimate
Total project costs                                     24.5                        13.9
Loan amount                                            23.2                         13.3
Cofinancing                                              0                           0
Cancellatbon                                                                        9.9
Date physical components completed                     03/98                       03/99
Economic rate of retum                                  na                          na
Institutonal performance
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99      FYOO
Appraisal estimate (US$ millions)     1.7       4.6      9.8       19.7      23.2      23.2      23.2
Actual (US$ millions)                0.0       3.6       5.2       7.1       8.8       13.2       13.6
Actual as % of estimate              0.0%     78.3%     53.1%     36.0%     37.9%     56.9%      58.6%
Date of final disbursement: 9/17/99
Source: Bank MIS, Bank Loan Administration System and staff estimates
Project Timetable
Stage of project cycle                          Date Planned*            Date actuaMlLatest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)             na                          11/91
Preparation                                            na                           na
Appraisal                                              na                          06/92
Negotiations                                         5/4/93                      04/04/93
Letter of Development Policy                           na                           na
Board Presentaton                                      na                        06/29/93
Signing                                                na                        09/17/93
Effectiveness                                        10/1/93                      7/30/94
Credit Closing                                      03/31/98                     03/31/99
*As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle         Planned                     Revised                     Actual
Weeks          US$          Weeks         US$           Weeks         US$
Through appraisal          na            na           na            na            44           80.4
Appraisal-Board            na            na           na            na            66          131.8
Negotiations               na           na            na            na             5           11.8
Supervision               110           na            na            na            98          241.1
Completon                                                                                       na
Total                                                                                         465.1



16
Mission Data
Stage of project cycle  Month!  No. of  Staff days in Specialized staff skills Performance rating  Types of problems
year   persons    field     represented a/
Through Appraisal:
Identification           9/91     3         20            D,               na                  na
Preparation             12191     6         18          A,d,h,n,           na                  na
Pre-appraisal            4/92     7         13          A,d,e,f,n,         na                  na
Supervision
Preparation for          3/94     2         10            A,d,             na          Slow progress towards
implementation                                                                               effect.
Supervision 1           11/94     2         3             D,e               S             Slow progress
Supervision 2            3/95     2         6             A,d               S           Need to establish SA
Supervision 3            7/95     1         5             A,                S            Launch Workshop
Supervision 4           11/95     4         10           A,d,g              S           Election law package
withdrawn
Supervision 5            3/96     3         4            A,d,j              S            New laws delayed
Supervision 6           11/96     5         3            D,l,m              S             Mid-term review
Supervision 7            4/97     1         2             D,                S         Slow progress on training
Supervision 8            6/97     2         15            A,j               S             Slow progress
Supervision 9           10/97     2         4             A,d               S        Extension and restructuring
Supervision 10           4/98     1         3             D,                S
Completion               2/99     3         10           D,e,l              S                  ICR
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



17
Annex B: Borrower Comments
(None were received)















IMACUINU
Report No.:         24421
Type:      PPAR



