Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19789
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2530-MOZ)
(October 12, 1999)
Water and Urban 1
Africa Region
Tfhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
US$1 = 2,910 Meticais (attime of appraisal, January 1993)
US$1 = 12,475 Meticais (at time of ICR, June 1999)
US$1= SDR 0.747 (at time of ICR, June 1999)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Calendar year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CG                     Inter-ministerial Coordinating Group
CIUEM                  Information Technology Center Edoardo Mondlane University (Portuguese acronym)
CNA                    Commission on the Environment (Portuguese acronym)
COM                    Council of Ministers
DNAL                   Directorate of Local Administration (Portuguese acronym)
IDA                    International Development Association
GDP                    Gross domestic product
GTL                    Local Technical Support Ufnits (Portuguese acronym)
HABITAR                Agency to manage urban rehabilitation contracts for MOPH
IMC                    Inter-ministerial Conmnittee
INPF                   Institute for Physical Planning (Portuguese acronymn)
MAE                    Ministry of State Administration (Portuguese acronym)
MICOA                  Ministry of Environment (Portuguese acronym)
MOP                    Memorandum of the President (PROL project document)
MOPH                   Ministry of Public Works and Housing (Portuguese acronym)
MOL                    Ministry of Labor
MPF                    Ministry of Planning and Finance (Portuguese acronym)
NGO                    Non-Govermnental Organization
PIU                    Project Implementation Unit
PROL                   Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (Portuguese acronym)
PRU                    Urban Rehabilitation Project (Portuguese acronym)
SISGEF                 Municipal Finances Management System (Portuguese acronym)
TSU                    Technical Support Unit
WG                     Working Group
Vice President:        Callisto Madavo
Country Director:     Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:       Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader:          Alan Carroll
ICR prepared by:      Jocelyn Mason



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Preface ..........................................................i
Project Objectives ..........................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ................................................ii
Summary of findings, future operations, and key lessons learnt .....................iii
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.      Background                                                                      1
B.  Project Objectives and Components            ..                                     2
C.  Achievement of Objectives..                                                         4
D.  Implementation Experience..                                                         6
E.  Project Sustainability..                                                            9
F. Bank Performance    ..10
G.  Borrower Perfonnance                 ..11
H.  Assessment of Outcome                 ..12
I. Key Lessons Leamt   ..12
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments
Table 2:        Related Bank Credits and Loans
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:        Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 7:        Studies Included in project
Table 8A:       Project Costs
Table 8B:       Project Financing
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:       Bank Resources Missions
APPENDICES:
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
B. BORROWER EVALUATION REPORT
C. PROL MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2530-MOZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Local Govemnment Reform and Engineering
Project in Mozambique, for which Credit 2530-MZ in the amount of SDR 16.4 million was approved in May 1993,
and made effective in July 1994.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1999, one year after the original closing date. At the time of the
extension SDR 3.6 million was cancelled. The final disbursement took place on August 17, 1999, and a balance of
SDR 3.3 million is to be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Jocelyn Mason (Consultant) under the guidance of Alan Cairoll (Principal Urban
Development Specialist) of the Urban and Water Group (AFT Ul), Africa Region, and reviewed by Phyllis
Pomerantz, Country Director, and Jeffrey Racki, Sector Manager. The borrower provided comments that are
included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in February
1999. It is based on material in the project file and interviews with officials of the borrower and Bank staff. The
borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by inviting the Bank mission to a project evaluation seminar, and by
contributing its own evaluation report.
The Government's evaluation report on the project, attached as Appendix B, basically concludes that the
project's principal objective was achieved. A draft of this ICR was sent to the Government for conuments, but none
were received.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit No. 2530-MZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
1. In 1992 Mozambique was emerging from a 17 year civil war. While worse in rural
areas, the effects of the war were nevertheless acute in urban areas where crumbling
infrastructure and housing stock and weak institutions were unable to accommodate the
large inflow of refugees. Since 1989, IDA had been supporting the Government to
address these problems with an Urban Rehabilitation Project (PRU, Cr. 1949) to
rehabilitate basic infrastructure and build capacity among public authorities. IDA lending
to Mozambique had begun with support to the country's economic reform program with
the Rehabilitation Program (Cr. 1610) in 1985 and the Second Rehabilitation Program
(Cr. 1841) in 1987. The adjustment process was accompanied by a series of investment
projects, of which PRU was one, aimed at mitigating the social effects of adjustment and
the effects of the civil war. At the same time as it was undertaking economic reform, the
Government was entering on a major program of strengthening its public administration
which included decentralization as a cornerstone. The Local Government Reform and
Engineering Project, known by its Portuguese acronym PROL, therefore emerged from
two separate themes, the first relating to urban rehabilitation and management, the second
relating to supporting Mozambique's decentralization program through legal and policy
reforms. These two themes converged with the preparation of the PROL project.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2. According to the Memorandum of the President, the overall objective of the project
was to support the Government of Mozambique's decentralization program by assisting
with its municipal reform and capacity building initiatives. The reforms were to focus on
the legal, institutional and fiscal framework of local government in order to create a
suitable structure for self-sufficient and accountable local authorities, and to include
support for municipal development programs and pilot projects in five urban areas. The
project comprised four components, under the direction of the Ministry of State
Administration's National Directorate for Local Administration. Two, Legal and
Institutional Reform and Fiscal, Financial and Organizational Reform, covered legal,
policy, and institutional reform. The third, Urban/Environmental Management, covered
local planning and public investments, including municipal development plans in each
city and physical pilot projects. The fourth was Capacity Building, Institutional Support,
and Project Management.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
3. The project, approved in June 1993, became effective in July 1994 and closed on
March 31, 1999 after one twelve month extension. Of the credit amount of SDR 16.4
million, SDR 3.5 million was cancelled in December 1997. Total project costs were
$13.9 million as compared to $24.5 million. By category, the most significant deviation
from appraisal estimates concerned the provision for consulting services, estimated at
appraisal at about $6.7 million as compared to about $9.5 million eventually disbursed.
4. The PROL project achieved its main stated objectives. It supported the drafting of
the legislation, known collectively as the Pacote Autdrquico, enabling the 33 provincial
capitals, cities and towns to be governed independently by elected Assemblies and
Presidents. Work under the PROL involved reviewing the legal, functional and
administrative framework for local government, evaluating the fiscal, financial and
organizational framework, and formulating and implementing the institutional reform
program embodied in the new legislation. Some of the necessary regulations to make the
laws functional, as well as legal follow-up work were also drafted under PROL. Finally,
PROL was responsible for developing a new computerized financial management system
for municipal finances. Key regulations to implement the legislation remain to be drafted
or are incomplete. In addition to the reforms under the first two components, the main
achievement under the third component was the production of structure plans for each of
the five cities, but none of the physical pilot projects under the third component were
implemented.
5. The project achieved its objectives despite problems which included exogenous
events, flawed project design, deficient performance on the part of the Bank, and weak
management on the part of the borrower. The project overcame these obstacles largely
because decentralization had acquired its own political momentum, grounding the project
in an environment of high Borrower commitment to its basic objectives. The project also
benefited from an atmosphere of general donor community support for decentralization in
the country.
6. Several factors limited the quality and quantity of some outputs. First, the
constitutionality of the original 1994 legislation creating autonomous local governments
was challenged, leading to a two year delay in the municipal elections. In the event,
these elections were held in June, 1998, eight months before the (extended) close of the
project. Second, the third component, involving local pilot studies and investments
nominally under the Ministry of Works and Housing, proved too difficult to implement
effectively, although much important preparatory work was done and structure plans for
each city were completed. Third, the project's management structure was fragmented
and not properly coordinated. Fourth, despite an effort to design the project flexibly to
allow for a better reflection of the borrower's evolving needs, the project did not
adequately take account of the political risks that would affect the timetables for a
majority of the outputs. Fifth, difficulties in the relationship between the borrower and
the Bank had a negative effect on implementation performance during the project's entire
life span. Borrower performance was inhibited by a rapid turnover of task managers
during design and by what it perceived to be the Bank's bureaucratic and unconstructive
approach to supervision. The Bank's ability to provide positive and substantive input



-  ii-
was hampered by weaknesses on the part of the borrower that caused process issues to
absorb supervision resources, and a major Bank reorganization during 1996-97 which
played a role in diverting management's attention from the problems in the borrower-
Bank relationship. The mid-term review did lead to some minor changes to the design of
the project, but both the Bank and the Government missed the opportunity to
fundamentally restructure the project to accommodate for the delays in the political arena
and the evident weaknesses in the third component.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
7. The objective of supporting the Government's decentralization program was
appropriate and was largely achieved. However, it represents only the first practical steps
in Mozambique's long term decentralization program. Additional support will be needed
to complete the legal and regulatory framework, to build the capacity within the
municipal governments to meet their new challenges, and to expand the scope of
municipal government authority. The Government, supported by the Bank, is preparing a
Municipal Development Program to address these issues over the long term. Key lessons
leamt from the PROL are the following:
* The project was successful in achieving its stated objectives and outcomes,
despite problems in the performance of both the Bank and the Borrower and the
political diffTiculties of the process. The PROL project demonstrates that such
obstacles can be overcome if commitment on the part of the client at the policy-
making level is high.
* The project's design was limited by a more restricted array of instruments for
bank support than is currently available. The use of the Engineering Credit
instrument, which is intended to be used as a precursor for large investment
projects, did not provide the flexibility (in light of political changes, for
example) needed in the PROL or allow for the sort of learning and long-term
support that the LL or APL instruments could provide today.
* The risks of the PROL were inadequately assessed and managed. The political
risks and uncertainties of such a fundamental governance reform
(decentralization) should have been taken into account through a more flexible
project design. The implementation risks of Component 3 were not properly
handled. The Bank and the Government should have undertaken a fundamental
restructuring of the project after the postponement of the municipal elections.
* The success of such projects (geared toward political and governance reforms)
are especially dependent on a high level of trust between the Bank and the
borrower. The Bank should be more careful to monitor and promptly address
any problems in the relationship.
* Projects that include several components coordinated by more than one
ministry face difficulties in a capacity-constrained environment, both in terms
of borrower coordination and Bank supervision. More streamlined



- iv -
management structures, preferably with one clearly defined responsible
ministry, are essential.
* Where implementation capacity is especially scarce, projects should ensure that
local staff have the necessary skills, perhaps developed through an initial period
devoted to training those responsible for the management of the project. In
addition, Bank supported projects should take better note of the risks associated
with the availability of counterpart funds, and should be designed to include
more effective mechanisms for the prompt provision of counterpart funds.



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit No. 2530-MZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART 1 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1. The Local Government Reform and Engineering Project, known by its Portuguese
acronym PROL, emerged from two separate themes of Bank support for Mozambique's
development. The first relates to the rehabilitation of Mozambique's badly deteriorated
cities. Mozambique was and remains one of the poorest countries in the world, the
results of a seventeen year civil war and misguided economic policies. The impact of the
civil war was severe in urban areas, where under-funded and crumbling infrastructure had
to meet the demands of a rapidly growing population of refugees from the countryside.
In 1987, the Government with IDA assistance, introduced reform efforts to reverse the
decline in GDP through macroeconomic and fiscal stabilization, growth incentives, and a
specific focus on poverty alleviation. The adjustment process was supported by a series
of investment projects that, although not classified technically as emergency projects,
contained the elements of such projects, including simplified and shortened
implementation schedules under defined action plans aimed at mitigating the social
effects of adjustment and the effects of the civil war. Among these was the Urban
Rehabilitation Project (PRU, Cr. 1949) to rehabilitate basic urban infrastructure and build
capacity among Mozambican public authorities. PRU became effective in February 1989
and closed in October 1996. 1
2. The second theme relates to reforning the governance of a country emerging from
civil war and a command economy. Mozambique, both under-Portuguese colonial rule
and since independence, had been, fonnally, highly centralized, but the practical reality
of the country had defied effective centralized control. Colonial rule had to constantly
contend with strong centrifugal forces, and during the civil war the central government
exerted only weak control over large portions of the country. With peace in 1992, the
central government in Maputo was able, almost for the first time, to extend its reach over
the entire country. Nevertheless, decentralization became a central tenet of Government
policy to deal with the practical reality of providing services, particularly in remote areas,
as a way of strengthening national unity and exercising effective control over the country.
3. The principles of decentralization were introduced into law in 1994, but municipal
elections were delayed until June 1998. In the intervening period, the Government
reduced the scope of decentralization, adopting an incremental approach in which,
initially, elected, self-governing municipalities were created for a limited number of cities
1 See the Implementation Completion Report for this project, Report No. 16747 dated June 20, 1997.



- 2 -
and towns, and the central government remains responsible for the provincial and district
administrations. The process adopted over this period was "gradualism", introducing an
open-ended schedule for transferring authority to subnational levels. The municipal
elections of June 1998, in 33 cities, towns and vilas, were boycotted by the leading
opposition Renamo party and a majority of the minor parties, and the abstention rate was
almost 86 percent for reasons that are not yet fully understood. However, the newly
elected municipal assemblies and presidents were sworn in in August 1998 and have
continued functioning.
B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
4. The two themes of previous Bank support to Mozambique described above, urban
rehabilitation and decentralization, converged with the preparation of the PROL project,
and are reflected in the project objectives. According to the Memorandum of the
President (MOP), the overall objective of the project was to support the Government of
Mozambique's decentralization program by assisting with its municipal reform and
capacity building initiatives. The reforms were to focus on the legal, institutional and
fiscal framework of local government in order to create a suitable structure for self-
sufficient and accountable local authorities, and were to be implemented on a pilot basis
in five urban areas designated as project cities. Secondary objectives were to: (i) assist
the Government to create an appropriate policy framework for investment in the urban
sector; (ii) prepare urban investment plans for the five project cities, including plans for
the efficient management, rehabilitation, and financing of essential urban infrastructure
and services; (iii) test specific, replicable approaches to solving entrenched urban
problems (including absorption of rural migrants, environmental degradation, and low
cost transportation); and (iv) coordinate the work of donor agencies, multilaterals and
NGOs in the urban and local government sectors.
5. The project had four components:
a. Legal and institutional reform, which included: (i) transforming the existing
legal, functional and administrative framework of local government; and (ii)
formulating and implementing an efficient institutional reform program to
improve the capacity of municipalities to plan, manage and maintain efficient
urban infrastructure and services.
b. Fiscal, financial and organizational reform which included: (i) evaluating the
present fiscal, financial and organizational performance of local government
in such areas as intergovernmental responsibilities' for financial management,
intergovernmental fiscal transfers, existing and potential sources of revenue
and the equity and effectiveness of revenue generating instruments, and the
effectiveness of existing organizational and staffing arrangements; (ii)
designing an action plan for effective implementation of recommended
financial and organizational reforms; and (iii) ensuring coordination of these
reforms with those proposed for the legal and institutional aspects of local
government.



-3 -
c. Urban/environmental management, which included: (i) formulating municipal
development programs for each of the five cities; and (ii) carrying out pilot
projects in the five cities, specifically land mapping in all five urban areas,
land information systems in Maputo, non-motorized transport in Beira,
environmental rehabilitation in Nampula, and neighborhood upgrading in
Pemba.
d. Capacity building, institutional support and project management, which
included operating costs, vehicles, equipment, and technical assistance to the
Ministry of State Administration (MAE), to the project cities, and to the
former Ministry of Construction and Water (now Ministry of Public Works
and Housing, MOPH).
6. MAE had overall responsibility for implementation, assisted by three Working
Groups (WGs): WGI for Legal and Institutional Reform, WGII for Fiscal and Financial
Reform, and WGIII for Urban and Environmental Management. Overall policy guidance
and coordination was to be provided by an Inter-ministerial Committee (IMC). Links
between the WGs was to be provided by the Inter-ministerial Coordinating Group (CG),
which included representatives from the Ministries of Planning and Finance (MPF),
Justice, Public Works and Housing (MOPH), National Commission for the Environment
(CNA, which during the course of the project would become the Ministry of the
Environment, MICOA), the Institute for Physical Planning (INPF) within MPF, and the
Executive Councils of the five cities. The CG was chaired by the Director for the
Directorate for Local Administration (DNAL) in MAE. Day to day operations were to be
facilitated by a Technical Support Unit (TSU), under the leadership of a Project Director
in DNAL, while the structure plans and pilot sub-projects were to be assisted by
HABITAR (the agency that managed urban rehabilitation contracts under MOPH). (See
Appendix C for a diagram of the management structures.)
7. Some saw PROL as the heir to PRU and part of the urban rehabilitation theme of
Bank support, with policy and capacity building components as complements to enable
better local management. However, most saw it as a technical assistance project
supporting a fundamental reform in the country's governance structures. It is useful to
remember that the decentralization process until early 1997 was meant to encompass not
just a limited number of urban areas, but most of the country including the rural areas.
8. Support for decentralization was clearly relevant in the context of Mozambique at the
time. While some have questioned the wisdom of a rapid shift towards autonomous local
governments in a country lacking the basic building blocks of local administration (such
as the minimum institutional infrastructure in terms of public expenditure management),
there is no doubt that the government had committed itself irreversibly to this course, and
external technical and financial support was essential. 2 While demanding in terms of
local capacity and risky because it required substantial political intervention, components
2 See Vito Tanzi, Fiscal Federalism and Decentralization: A Review of Some Efficiency and
Macroeconomic Aspects, paper presented at the Annual Bank Conference on Development Economics,
1995; and Jennie Litvack, Junaid Ahmad and Richard Bird, Rethinking Decentralization inDeveloping
Countries, PREM Sector Studies Series, The World Bank, 1998.



- 4 -
1 and 2 were appropriate (although the separation between the legal/institutional and
fiscal/organizational components turned out to be unnecessary and impractical). The
objectives of components 1 and 2 are one step along the way towards improving the
capacity of municipalities "to plan, manage and maintain efficient urban infrastructure
and services". 3 To achieve these broader goals falls outside the scope of any one project,
but PROL laid a solid foundation towards reaching them. Improving urban management
was also a legitimate priority, and support for pilot urban investment projects, as in
component 3, also was appropriate to bring the activities of Working Groups I and II
"down to earth". The problem lay in neither the Bank nor the Government having clearly
understood the additional complexity and risk, in terms of implementation, that the
inclusion of component 3 would pose.
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9. The project was largely successful. in achieving its main stated objectives. Consistent
with the MOP, WGs I and II elaborated a new set of laws known collectively as the
Pacote Autcirquico, which comprised the legislation enabling the 33 provincial capitals,
cities and towns to be governed by elected, autonomous governments. This involved
reviewing the current legal, functional and administrative framework for local
government, as well as evaluating the fiscal, financial and organizational framework, and
formulating and implementing the institutional reform program embodied in the new
legislation. The new laws include: the law regulating the functions and organization of
local governments (Lei clas Autarquias Locais) passed in February 1997; three laws
governing elections, passed in March, April and May 1997; the law governing
administrative oversight by the central government of local governments (Lei da Tutela
Administrativa do Estado sobre as Autaquias Locais) passed in July 1997; the law
creating the local municipalities (Lei da Criaqdo de Autarquias Locais) passed in October
1997; and the law regulating local finances (Lei das Finan as e Patrimonio Locais)
passed in November 1997. In addition, WGI elaborated some of the necessary
regulations to make the laws functional, as well as undertook legal follow-up work (such
as promulgating relevant legal opinions and drafting example modalities for the key
municipal activities.) Finally, WGI was also responsible for developing a new
computerized management system for municipal finances, the Sistema de Gestdo
Financiera AIunicipal (SISGEF), which was developed jointly with the Centro de
Informatica Universidade Edoardo Mondlane (CIUEM), the information technology
center at Edoardo Mondlane University. Thus, the basic legal and fiscal framework for
autonomous local government in the 33 municipalities was put in place. While a number
of regulations to implement the above laws remain to be drafted or are incomplete
(specifically, the code governing municipal taxes and the rules governing the transfer,
mobility, and management of municipal employees were drafted but not acted on, and the
rules governing competitive bidding for contracts for municipal works were not drafted),
the project's achievement under these two components is especially notable, particularly
given Mozambique's capacity constraints and the setbacks that these reforms faced
3 This is actually part of the description of the second sub-component of the Legal and Institutional Reform
component on page 3 of the MOP, but clearly speaks to the broader objectives of the project.



during the life of the project (including having the first decentralization law declared
unconstitutional, postponement of the local elections, and difficulties in coordination.)
10. Achievements under the third component of the project-Urban/Environmental
Management-were fewer. The most notable were the structure plans for each of the
five cities. The structure plans were largely completed just up to the project's closing
date, having been considerably delayed due to the lack of an institutional "home" for
component 3 (see below), coordination and procurement problems, and some problems
with inadequate performance by consultants. They appear to be of generally good quality
and to have benefited from reasonable consultation with stakeholders in the community.
Component 3 also produced an important study on reforming regulations and processes
for urban planning (for which there has been no follow-up) and a study of cadastral
management in Maputo (which also is awaiting follow-up). Aside from the structure
plans, the most tangible achievements of this component were those funded by other
donors: rapid mapping in the five cities (which produced aerial photos, photo maps, and
digitized maps) funded by the Norwegian government (NORAD) and the adressage
project in Maputo funded by the French government, plus a few pilot environmental
rehabilitation activities in Nampula funded by the Dutch government. Although much
useful preparatory work was undertaken, none of the Bank funded pilot projects were
implemented (these were urban upgrading in the Natite area of Pemba; urban
environmental improvements in Nampula; non-motorized transport in Beira; and the
construction of a building for cadastral archives in Maputo). These pilot projects were all
cancelled as a result of (a) severe delays due to procurement problems and inadequate
communication between the Bank and the borrower and (b) poor performance by
consultants. The failings of this component, while disappointing, should not detract from
the overall achievement of the project, whose main objective was governance reform.
D.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
11. The PROL project experienced implementation problems which limited the scope of
some of the outputs of Components I and 2, resulted in the cancellation of several pilot
sub-projects under Component 3, and allowed only a small amount of training to be
carried out. Implementation was hindered by factors outside the Government's control
(notably the deficient performance of the Bank; see below); by factors within the
Government's control (i.e., flaws in the design of the project); and by factors within the
implementing agency's control.
12. The success of the project in achieving its objectives, despite these problems, is
explained by two factors. First, it was possible for a committed group of senior officials
to persevere with the establishment of the policy and legal framework for municipal
devolution. Second, this effort was carried along by a political momentum for
decentralization that grounded the project in an environment highly supportive of its main
objectives. In Mozambique, support for decentralization came from a number of sources,
including a recognition of the practical need to deliver services more effectively, the
political imperative to complete the unfinished agenda of the peace process, and a strong
belief in the importance of decentralization on the part of almost all of Mozambique's
donor partners.



- 6 -
13. A key factor outside the project's control was the delay in the municipal elections,
originally scheduled for late 1996 but which only took place in June 1998, eight months
before the (extended) close of the project. A major cause of this delay was that the
original 1994 decentralization law was found to be unconstitutional, and the Government
had to draft and pass a new law, along with a change in the constitution. The project was
designed essentially to help create and to support the new municipal govemments, so this
inevitably inhibited the achievement of the project's secondary objectives of building
capacity at the local level and piloting locally-driven public investment programs.
14. The Bank and the Government can take considerable credit for leadership in
designing a decentralization reform package that proved central to the Government's
overall reform program. However, several drawbacks in the project's design emerged.
One was the underestimation of the risks and problems of implementing a project
combining policy and governance reforms with urban management and pilot civil works
activities. The third component, while arguably sound in theory to provide a practical
grounding for the project's main focus on policy reform, did not in practice fit well
institutionally into the project and proved unwieldy to implement.
15. Weak coordination between MAE and MOPH, MICOA, and INPF hampered
implementation of WGIII's activities, which were due in large part to the absence of an
institution responsible for them. The original project design called for HABITAR, a
project management entity established under the previous PRU project, to manage
Working Group III. Institutional strengthening of HABITAR with, among other things,
the appointment of a senior urban planner, was a condition of project effectiveness.
However, HABITAR was disbanded almost immediately after effectiveness. As a result,
this component of PROL became by default the nominal concern of the Department of
Civil Construction in MOPH. However, in practice, neither MOPH, nor the newly
created MICOA took an active role in managing it. Moreover, the INPF, which might
have been considered to play a role, was slated to be disbanded and was not included in
project design. In fact, NPF was not disbanded, but neither was it given formal
responsibility within PROL.
16. A second design problem was the project's complex internal structure. Responsibility
for the three Working Groups, each headed by a separate individual, was fragmented and
not well coordinated. The roles of the Interministerial Committee (IMC), the
Coordinating Group (CG), and the Working Groups (WGs) were not well defined. The
separation of WGI and WGII was unnecessary and caused coordination problems. At the
political level, the IMC met rarely and failed to provide any link to the Council of
Ministers. At the implementation level, the CG also met rarely. The WGs, which were
intended to comprise senior officers from each of the relevant ministries supported by
consultants, in fact comprised only consultants. Not only was coordination between the
WGs inadequate, coordination even within the WGs was in some cases a problem. WGI
was staffed by two successive groups of consultants, but the second group seems to have
had no contact with the first. The TSU, while designed to be a coordinating unit at the
implementation level, was not supplied with the authority or staff to act as a traditional
project implementation unit (PIU). According to Bank staff involved in the design of the
project, this was an intentional attempt to avoid the pitfalls of a PUJ. However, the TSU



-7-
was unable to fulfill its coordination role, notably in the case of training, and lacked the
necessary authority, capacity and skills to act effectively as a "secretariat' for the project.
This was exacerbated by the fact that the TSU was never provided with an Organizational
and Administrative Manager, as called for in the original project design, leaving that role
to be fulfilled by the CG chairman (the Director of MAE's Directorate of Local
Administration), who had many other responsibilities, making it difficult for him to
devote adequate time to the project.
17. In lieu of formal coordination and leadership within the project structure, these were
provided ad hoc by a small cadre of committed individuals in DNAL, WGII, and WGIIIt
who can be largely credited with the success of the project, but whose efforts could not
substitute for the inadequate inter-institutional linkages. Slowness in coordination
between MAE and the Ministry of Planning and Finance hindered work on key fiscal and
financial issues. Resolution is pending of issues concerning the transfer of future
responsibilities and resources to municipal governments, mechanisms for coordinating
financial reporting, and measures to tackle compensation for former state employees
severed from municipal service.
18. Although the project was intended to be implemented flexibly, in recognition of the
uncertainties of the political reform process, in practice the project was flawed by the
treatment of political decisions as controllable project outputs. The use of the
Engineering Project instrument may have suited the types of activities in the third
component of PROL, but it seems to have not been well adapted to the design and
implementation of the main political, legal, and regulatory reform components of the
project. For example, in the MOP, Appendix B, laws passed are listed as monitoring
indicators, or are assumed to have been passed once they have been drafted. As a result,
the Bank tended to confuse delays in political decision-making with delays in project
implementation. This could have been corrected through a project restructuring.
19. At the project level, very little of the expected training was carried out, despite
constant urging by the Bank for a comprehensive training program and plan. What was
provided was linked to specific activities, such as seminars on the new legal framework,
training in the new financial management systems, and a few technically oriented
seminars on topics like land registration. The training assessments planned in Appendix
E of the MOP were not carried out, nor was any long-term coherent training program
developed. The reasons include the project's awkward management structure, the
absence of an Organizational and Administrative Manager, and the view that training
should be postponed until the new municipal governments were installed.
20. Second, Appendix E of the MOP outlined a process of consultations to be linked with
specific stages of the development of the decentralization reforms, e.g., after the
principles of reform had been outlined but before the drafting of legislation, after the
draft legislation had been prepared, on the completion of analytical studies, and prior to
the implementation of reforms. Except for those held in connection with the structure
plans, none of these consultation took place. One reason was simply that project
management was over-extended. Another was that the uncertainties and sensitivities of
the political process made organizing formal consultations difficult.



-8 -
21. The project experienced serious and recurrent procurement delays.
Misunderstandings occurred over the specifications and awarding of bids for goods and
the tenns of reference and selection of consultants. On the Government side, officials
complained that the Bank was overly rigid and bureaucratic, delaying the provision of no
objections for reasons that failed to recognize the real difficulties that MAE faced. On
the Bank side, staff complained that MAE's response time was often slow, that Bank
procurement procedures and fiduciary responsibilities were misunderstood or even
ignored, and that a lack of counterpart funds was frequently the cause of extended delays.
Documentary evidence suggests that on some occasions the Bank took a bureaucratic
rather than facilitating role. These occasions created the perception, on the part of the
client, that this approach characterized all the Bank's dealings with this project. However
exaggerated, this perception worsened an already strained relationship between the Bank
and the borrower (see Section F below).
22. MAE and Bank staff agree that counterpart funds were often unreliable, and that
MPF's approval of contracts was often seriously delayed. The problem of counterpart
funds seems to be particularly acute in the case of MAE, as compared to some other
Ministries, which typically can draw from a pool of counterpart funds generated by a
number of projects.
23. The implementing agency had difficulties managing, commenting on, and evaluating
the work of the consultants in the WGs. This situation was exacerbated by the absence of
senior government officials on the WGs and the difficulties of inter-ministerial
coordination. Slow or inadequate review by MPF and MOPH delayed or left incomplete
some regulations and studies.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24. Since the legislative framework is in place, municipal elections have occurred, and
new municipal governments have taken office, the main accomplishments of the project
are likely to be sustainable. This project, however, is only a first step in a much longer
program of decentralization. Next steps would need to include, among others,
strengthening of the new autonomous municipalities, the completion of the legal
framework particularly critical regulations covering taxation, inter-governmental
financial management, and staffing, as well as the extension of municipal authority over
the full range of sector activities devolving to the municipal level under the new
legislation. These next steps will be necessary to ensure the achievement of the promised
improvements in planning, managing, and maintaining municipal infrastructure and
services, and thus to ensure the long-term success of the decentralization program. As
long as Mozambique remains politically stable and its economy continues to improve,
there seems to be no reason to doubt that decentralization will move forward and begin to
deliver the hoped-for benefits.
25. The sustainability of some of the project's other outputs, on the other hand, is more
uncertain. What little capacity building of non-elected officials that has taken place, in
the form of training, is likely to be short-lived unless changes in pay and working
conditions improve to encourage qualified people to stay in the municipal civil services.



- 9 -
Similarly, maintenance of equipment purchased under the project is likely to be a
problem unless the municipalities improve their revenue collection and management
systems. Finally, the municipalities will need substantial financial and technical support
to implement the structure plans produced under WGIII.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
26. The Bank took a leading role in project design and should be given credit for taking
the initiative in encouraging the Government to pursue an ambitious decentralization
program. This is particularly notable in that this took place at an early stage in the
Bank's relationship with the Government and at a point when Mozambique had just
emerged from civil war and was still in transition towards a peacetime economy and
democracy. It represents a major investment of confidence in the Government at a very
difficult time. Apart from this, however, the Bank's performance on this project was
problematic throughout, and it is rated deficient overall. The Bank must bear a majority
of the responsibility for the design problems already discussed. The Bank
underestimated the inherent difficulty and political sensitivity of the project's objectives
and components, and it overestimated the capacity of the borrower to implement the
project.
27. The project had three World Bank task managers between identification and
effectiveness. A fourth took over after effectiveness and remained with the project until
about one year before closing. This rapid turnover of task managers caused a number of
problems, including changes in project design which were not always fully "owned" by
the Mozambican authorities and a shift in approach, from more to less flexible
application of Bank rules. This created confusion among the Mozambican authorities,
many -of whom were not yet very familiar with Bank practices, and a sense that they had
been misled. By the time of effectiveness, Mozambican officials and staff had already
started to view the Bank's procedures as an obstacle to be overcome rather than an aid
towards a better outcome, and the relationship between the Bank and the Government at
the working level had been seriously strained.
28. The relationship was further strained during implementation as the Bank was
increasingly seen by the borrower as tending to be critical on issues of procedure and
compliance with guidelines, rather than helpful in solving problems collaboratively. Not
only did the difficult relations between the Bank and the borrower impede the smooth
implementation of the proj ectper se, but it led to the Bank being largely excluded from
providing advice at the technical level on the substance of the reforms. In fact, according
to Bank staff, technical advice on the substance of the reforms was offered informally
throughout the process, but lack of trust and the chronic procedural problems impeded
most constructive dialogue on these matters.
29. The mid-term review was a missed opportunity to restructure the project in light of
the delayed municipal elections and the slow progress on the pilot projects. Some minor
changes were made, for example, to focus more on intergovernmental fiscal transfers and
strengthen the capacity building and training activities. The mid-term review failed to
come to grips with the fact that many of the project's activities were being affected by the



- 10-
postponement of the municipal elections, that the new municipal governments would,
once elected, require substantial support including training, or that the pilot proj ects were
unlikely to be implemented under current structures. The project was later extended by
one year (from the original closing date of March 31, 1998) in conjunction with minor
adjustments and a cancellation of SDR 3,550,000, but, again, nothing was done to
address the root problems facing the project. The extension was granted simply to allow
time to complete some of the ongoing tasks, including preparation of decrees,
establishment of mechanisms for the transfer of competencies, development of
intergovernmental fiscal transfers, strengthening of dissemination and locally-based
technical assistance, and implementation of the pilot projects.
30. The Bank's reorganization during 1996-97 played a role in diverting management's
attention from the project's problems. Insufficient management guidance inhibited the
development of needed restructuring of the project and left the troubled relationship
unaddressed. By the time of the mid-term review in October 1996, both the Mozambican
authorities and Bank staff recognized that the relationship at the working level had
deteriorated badly, but no moves were made to remedy the situation.
31. The final blow to the relationship was the Bank's refusal to consider the
Government's request for an additional year's extension to allow the project to start
building capacity in the new municipal governments elected in June 1998. Delays and
confusion lasting several months characterized the transfer of the project to the last task
manager in October 1998, which contributed to this lapse. In retrospect, uncommitted
funds could have been productively used to provide training and technical assistance to
the new municipal governments, thus laying a foundation of both better relations and
improved capacity.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32. Despite the difficulties in implementation and the Bank's unsatisfactory performance,
the main objectives of the project were achieved. 4 The borrower's performance had
very significant shortcomings, but it is rated satisfactory taking into account the factors
discussed under sections D and F above. A major reason for the project's success is that
it was driven by a high level of Government commitment: not only was decentralization
part of the Government's five year plan (and therefore of its political platform), but it
constituted an important part of the peace process, and became a condition of bilateral
donor support. Nevertheless, the challenge of decentralization, especially given the time
frame, the limited capacity of the Government in general and of the implementing
ministry in particular, makes the achievements of the project particularly notable.
33. Weaknesses in the borrower's performance during implementation of the project
included: lack of coordination, within the project implementation structure and inter-
institutionally; lack of initiative to restructure the project in light of changed
circumstances; inadequate management of consultant contracts; faulty administration of
procurement procedures, and inadequate provision of counterpart funds. Moreover, the
4During the ICR mission, a top-level Government official stated that the Bank had not been a good partner
and that the project had been a success "in spite of the Bank."



- 11 -
Borrower was slow in meeting a majority of the conditions of effectiveness, causing a
delay of almost a year before the project became effective. In large part this was due to
capacity constraints, and to unfamiliarity with Bank procedures in engaging consultant
services, for example.
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
34. The PROL project was responsible for legislation that has had a profound effect on
governance and public administration in Mozambique. Under the project, the
Government enacted the framework legislation for autonomous governments in 33
municipalities, as well as the legislation for municipal elections and municipal finance.
These elections took place, and the new municipal governments have been installed. The
first practical steps in Mozambique's decentralization program have therefore been taken.
There is still a long way to go, however, to complete the legislative framework, to build
the capacity within the municipal governments to meet their new challenges, and to
expand the scope of municipal government authority. The project had two main failures.
One was its inability to build capacity in the new municipal governments, mainly because
of the long postponement of the local elections, but secondarily because the project could
have been restructured and/or extended but was not. The other was the failure to
implement any of the physical pilot projects, thereby leaving the municipal councils with
a sense of having been left out and depriving them of tangible outputs "on the ground",
however small. While disappointing, these failures did not significantly compromise the
achievement of the project's main contributions to the Government's decentralization
program.
1.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35. A number of lessons can be learned from the PROL project:
*  The project was successful in achieving its stated objectives and outcomes,
despite problems in the performance of both the Bank and the Borrower and the
political difficulties of the process. The PROL project demonstrates that such
obstacles can be overcome if commitment on the part of the client at the policy-
making level is high.
*  The project's design was limited by a more restricted array of instruments for
bank support than is currently available. The use of the Engineering Credit
instrument, which is intended to be used as a precursor for large investment
projects, did not provide the flexibility (in light of political changes, for
example) needed in the PROL or allow for the sort of learning and long-term
support that the LIL or APL instruments could provide today.
*  The risks of the PROL were inadequately assessed and managed. The political
risks and uncertainties of such a fundamental governance reform
(decentralization) should have been taken into account through a more flexible
project design. The implementation risks of Component 3 were not properly



- 12 -
handled. The Bank and the Government should have undertaken a fundamental
restructuring of the project after the postponement of the municipal elections.
* The success of such projects (geared toward political and governance reforms)
are especially dependent on a high level of trust between the Bank and the
borrower. The Bank should be more careful to monitor and promptly address
any problems in the relationship.
* Projects that include several components coordinated by more than one
ministry face difficulties in a capacity-constrained environment, both in terms
of borrower coordination and Bank supervision. More streamlined
management structures, preferably with one clearly defined responsible
ministry, are essential.
* Where implementation capacity is especially scarce, projects should ensure that
local staff have the necessary skills, perhaps developed through an initial period
devoted to training those responsible for the management of the project. In
addition, Bank supported projects should take better note of the risks associated
with the availability of counterpart funds, and should be designed to include
more effective mechanisms for the prompt provision of counterpart funds.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment          Substantial      Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
Categories                                     J
Macroeconomic Policies                                                            X
Sector Policies                X
Financial Objectives                          X
Institutional development                     X
Physical objectives                                            X
Gender concerns                                                                   X
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives   _     _     _       __    _         X___
Public sector management       X
Private sector development                                                        X
Other                                                                             X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                       Uncertain           |           Unlikely
x
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                                         X
Preparation                                                                    x
Appraisal                                                                      X
Supervision                                                                    x
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly satisfactory   |  Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                            x
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                    X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly          Satisfactory       Marginally       Unsatisfactory         Highly
Satisfactory                         Satisfactory                        Unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related Bank Credits and Loans
Preceding Operations
Title                Urban Rehabilitation Project
Loan no.             1949-MOZ
Year of approval     1988
Amount               SDR 44.0 million
Purpose             : To assist in stemming deterioration in basic urban infrastructure and
services, and to mitigate the social costs of structural adjustment through the implementation of a
program of urban rehabilitation and employment generation.
Status               Closed October 1996
Title                Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building
Credit no.          : 2437-MOZ
Year of approval    : 1992
Amount               SDR 10.9 million
Purpose             : Civil service reform and capacity building in the Ministiy of State
Administration and legal institutions.
Status              : ongoing
Following Operations
Title                Municipal Development Project
Credit no.
Year of approval    : 2001
Amount              : To be determined
Purpose             : Continuation of policy reform, municipal capacity building, and
introduction of municipal infrastructure grants
Status               In preparation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle        Date planned        [       Date actual
Identification                    Not Available                  11/91
Preparation                       Not Available              Not Available
Appraisal                         Not Available                  06/92
Negotiations                         514/93                    04/04/93
Letter of development policy      Not Available              Not Available
Board presentation                Not Available                 6/29/93
Signing                           Not Available                 9/17/93
Effectiveness                        10/1/93                    7/30/94
Credit closing                      3/31/98                     3/31/99
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES






Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
| FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FYOO
Appraisal estimate         1.7    2.9    5.2    9.9    3.5    0.0    0.0
Actual                    0.0    3.6    1.6    1.9_    1.7    4.4    0.4
Actual as % of estimate    0      124     31      19      49              -
Cumulative                 0      3.6    5.2    7.1    8.8    13.2   13.6
Date of Final disbursement
Source: Bank MIS, Bank Loan Administration System and staff estimates.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in the SAR/President's [    Estimated        Actual Completion Dates
Report                          Completion Dates
Enactment of key decentralization laws                                      First law passed in March
1994; final law passed in
November 1997
Elaboration and approval of an urban services delivery and                       Not completed
management policy
Broad consultation process with Municipalities in the                       Too soon for consultation
conduct of the decentralization process, and agreement on                   yet with the municipalities;
the transfer of competence and associate funding resources                  no agreement on transfer
of competencies other than
those transferred to new
local governments taking
office.
Completion of structure plans in the five pilot cities, and the             Structure plans completed
adoption of urban planning regulations and procedures                      in March 1999, and under
review by INPF after close
of project
Implementation of pilot projects                                               None implemented
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
Note: This project was prepared before the formal requirement for key indicators of project
implementation. The project was retrofitted with the above indicators, but no completion dates were
provided.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable . The preparation of the project's SAR took place before the development of these
indicators had become part of the appraisal process.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                            Purpose                     Status and impact
1. Legal and Institutional Component
Ante-projecto da Lei Quadro das           Draft of general local    Law approved 1997
Autarquias Locais                             government law
Ante-projecto da Lei da Tutela         Draft of law on government     Law approved 1997
Administrativa do Estado sobre as      oversight of municipalities
Autarquias Locais
Ante-projecto da Lei do Estatuto Especial  Draft of special statute for City of  Law approved 1997
da Cidade de Maputo                   Maputo
Ante-projecto da Lei sobre o Estatuto dos   Draft of law on members and  Law approved 1997
Titulares e Membros dos Orgaos        appointees of municipal bodies
Autarquicas
Ante-projecto da Lei das Financas e    Draft of local government finance  Law approved 1997
Patrimonio Locais                      law
Ante-projecto da Lei do Recenseamento  Draft of law on census for voter   Law approved 1997
Eleitoral Sistematico para as Eleicoes e    registration
Referendos
Ante-projecto da Lei da Criacao da     Draft of law establishing national  Law approved 1997
Comissao NVacional das Eleicoes        election commission
Ante-projecto da Lei Eleitoral para os  Draft of electoral law for    Law approved 1997
Orgaos das Autarquias Locais           autarchies
Ante-projecto do Lei da Criacao das    Draft of law for creation of new    Law approved 1997
Autarquias de Cidade e Vila            autarchies
Ante-projecto de lei sobre mobilidade de    Draft of law on mobility of public  Completed and submitted to
funcionarios entre quadros da          servants between central and local government
Administracao do Estado e dasAutarquias  government
Locais
Anteprojecto de Decreto sobre os       Draft decree on basic contents of  Completed and submitted to
Principios Fundamentais a constarem nos  internal regulations of Municipal   government
Regimentos das Assenibleias Municipais    Assemblies and model regulations
and Aodelo de Regimento dasAssembleias
Municipais
Anteprojecto de Decreto sobre os       Draft decree on basic contents of  Completed and submitted to
Principios Fundamentais a constarem nos  internal regulations of Municipal  government
Regulamentos Internos do Conselhos     Councils and model regulations
Municipais and Modelo de Regimento dos
Conselhos Municipais
Proposals for municipal regulations and                               Completed and submitted to
laws on cemeteries, markets, ambulant                                 government
traders, vehicles of hire.
Training Manuals on local government                                  Completed
legislation



Glossary of local government legislation (2                          Completed
volumes)
Study                            Purpose                    Status and impact
2. Financial and Fiscal Component
Contribuicao aos EstudosRelativos aos    Comparative analysis of budget    Completed, February 1995
Sistemas de Transferencias Orcamentais  transfer systems in Brazil, Peru and
Columbia, to provide basis for
legislation
Methodology for collection of data on  To define working methodology   Completed, December 1995
municipal fmances and financial
administration
Relatorio de Pre-politicas de transferencias Presentation of budget scenarios   Completed, September 1995
orcamentais e mobilizacao de recursos  and proposals for municipalities'
locais                                own revenues and budget transfers,
to provide basis for legislation.
Bases teenicas de capacitacao de recuirsos  To provide basis for training in    Completed, October 1995
humanos dos Conselhos no uso do sistema  computer use and fmancial
de gestao de financas locais          management
J.     Relatorio da Area de           Design of financial management   Completed, August 1995
Sistemas                      system and method of
implementation
Final Report of initial contract of   Includes conclusions and policy    Completed, May 1996
KPMG/IBAM, covering studies of        recommendations made by the
municipal fmancial management, capacity  Consultant.
building, urban services and organizational
structure.
Manuals on accounting, treasury e others   6 user manuals on procedures and  Completed, December 1996
standards for financial
management.
Situacao financeira dos Municipios e  To provide basis for legislation    Completed, July 1997
investimento municipal
Management instruments for SISGEF     Manual for senior managers of    Completed, October 1997
(Financial management system)         SISGEF (Finance Directors and
Presidents of Municipal Councils)
explaining management tools
provided by SISGEF.
Manual de Rerefencia Operacional do   Short version of user manuals  Completed, November 1997
SISGEF
Relatorio de Politicas de Servicos Urbanos Policy proposals for provision of   Completed, November 1997
de Utilidade Pub lica (English and    waste collection, water, sanitation
Portuguese)                           and public transport.
Implantacao do Sistema de Financas    Draft legislation covering the  Completed January, 1998.
Autarquicas - dispositivos transitorios  period of transition from central to Submitted to Ministry of Planning
local government financial    and Finance
management



Study                            Purpose                    Status and impact
K.    Propostas de organizacao    6 volumes of proposals for the     Completed, March 1998
administrativa                structure and staffing requirements
for the 5 PROL cities
L.     Codigo de Posturas             Model proposal for municipal laws Completed March 1998. Submitted
Autarquicas                                                  to Ministry of Planning and
Finance, no decision yet
Codigo Tributario Autarquico          Draft regulations for municipal    Completed May 1998. Submitted to
taxes                         Council of Ministers, no decision
yet
Proposta de decreto sobre transferencia de Draft decree on transfer of  Completed May 1998. Submitted
competencias                          responsibilities from central to    to Ministry of Planning and
local government              Finance, no decision yet
3. Urban and Environmental
Management Component
Planeamento e Gestao Urbana em        Basis for the definition of    Submitted to National Institute of
Mo,cambique                           legislation, regulations and   Physical Planning, June 1997
procedures on urban development
planning
Stiicture Plan for Greater Maputo                                    Completed, March 1999
Structure Plan and Priority Action Plan for                          Completed, March 1999
the city of Quelimane
Structure Plan and Priority Action Plan for                          Completed, March 1999
the city of Pemba
Structure Plan and Priority Action Plan for                          Completed, March 1999
the cities of Beira and Dondo
Structure Plan for the city of Nampula                               Completed, March 1999 and
approved by the Municipal
Assembly in April 1999
Comparative Study of Real and                                        Completed, March 1999
Documented Land Use in the City of
Maputo and Legal Support to Urban Land
Management - Vol. 1: Analysis of existing
conditions and Vol. 2: Proposals for anew
system of land administration
Construction of a new building for the land                          Completed March 1998, tender
administration archive, Maputo: detailed                             documents reviewed by Bank
design and tender documents
Nampula Urban and Enviromuental
Management Pilot Project:
Manual on erosion control, Nampula   Guidelines for actions by   Completed 1997
community groups
Master plan for municipal nursery,                               Completed 1997
Nampula
Market and Health Post, Muhala                                   Completed March 1999, tender
neighbourhood, Nampula, including                                documents not reviewed by Bank
water supply: detailed design and
tender documents
Study                            Purpose                    Status and impact
Rehabilitation of public lavatories,                             Completed March 1999, tender
Murrapaniwa Market, Nampula:                                     documents not reviewed by Bank



detailed design and tender documents
Construction of public lavatories,                                Completed March 1999, tender
FAINA market, Nampula: detailed                                   documents not reviewed by Bank
design and tender documents
Rehabilitation of municipal nursery,                              Completed March 1999, tender
Nampula: detailed design and tender                               documents not reviewed by Bank
documents
Water supply and sanitation, Namwatu                              Completed March 1999, tender
School, Nampula: detailed design and                              documents not reviewed by Bank
tender documents
Rehabilitation of roads, construction of                          Completed March 1999, tender
public water posts and control of                                 documents not reviewed by Bank
ravines, Muhala neighborhood,
Nampula: detailed design and tender
documents
Pilot project for integrated infrastructure
improvements, Natite, Pemba:
Report on consultation process                                    Completed, 1998
Analysis of existing conditions                                   Completed, 1998
Financial analysis                                                Completed December 1998
Resettlement Plan                                                 Completed, December 1998
Construction of market and recreation1998, t
center: detailed design and tender                                documents not reviewed by Bank
documents
Rehabilitation and expansion of                                   Completed December 1998, tender
primary school: detailed design and                               documents not reewed by Bank
tender documents
Drainage and roads: detailed design and                           Completed December 1998, tender
tender documents                                                  documents not reviewed by Bank
Proposal for maintenance program for                              Completed
improved infrastructures using local
labor
Proposal for solid waste collection                               Completed December 1998
Layout plan for Wimbe expansion area                              Completed December 1998
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                  Appraisal Estimate (US$mm)             E Estimated Actual Costs (US$mm) 9/
Local    Foreign costs     Total          Local         Foreign         Total
costs                      costs          costs          costs          Costs
Legal and Institutional Refonns  0.3         0.8            1.1            0.1            0.6            0.7
Fiscal and Financial Reforms    0.2          1.7            1.9            0.3            3.4            3.7
Urban Environmental
Management
*   Preparation of       0.0          1.8            1.8            0.7            0.4            1.1
Municipal
Development
Plans
*   Preparation and      2.3          2.4            4.7            0.5            3.4            3.9
Implementation of
Pilot Sub-projects
Capacity Building, Institutional
Support and Project
Management
Support for MAE
*   Technical Advice     1.0          1.1            2.1           0.02            0.2            0.2
and Support
*   Training             0.9          0.2            1.1            0.8            0.1            0.9
*   Staff (TSU)          0.6          0.0            0.6            0.5                           0.5
*   Project              2.1          0.5            2.6
Administration
(TSU)
Support for MCA
(HABITAR) & CNA
*   Staff                0.6          1.3            1.9
(HABITAR/CAN)
*   Project              0.4          0.1            0.5            0.7                           0.7
Administration
Vehicles and Equipment          0.2          1.9            2.1            0.3            0.9            1.2
Base Cost:                      8.6          11.8          20.4            3.9            9.0           12.9
Contingencies                                                                             0.9
Physical Contingencies       0.8          1.2            2.0
Price Contingencies          0.9          1.2            2.1
Total Project Cost:             10.3        14.2           24.5            3.9            9.9           13.9
Source: Bank MIS and staff estimates.



Table 8B: Project Financing
Source            Appraisal estimate                Actual/latest estimate
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
costs      costs       Costs       costs       costs       costs
IDA             9.0         14.2       23.2         3.4        9.9         13.3
Government      1.3         0.0         1.3         0.6        0.0         0.6
10.3       14.2        24.5        4.0         9.9         13.9
Table 9A Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement!l Covenant  Status |         Covenant Description                  Comments
Section      Type
3.01 (c)          12       NC    Borrower to cause MAE to enter into  Failure to implement pilot projects
Implementation Agreements with all  and delays in preparing structure
of the Project Cities.           plans led this to be unnecessary.
3.03 (a)          10       CD    Borrower to conduct with the IDA   Reviews conducted but generally
project implementation reviews by    delayed.
not later than September 30 of each
year, including mid-term review by
not later than September 30, 1995.
3.03 (b)          10        C     Submit to IDA for its review and
comments, annual and mid-term
reviews, progress reports and a draft
action program including training
plans to be carried out during the
upcoming year.
3.03 (c)          10       CP    Carry out recommendations arising    Most actions implemented, but
out of annual and mid-tern reviews   often with delays.
3.04 (a,b)        05       CP    Maintain institutional arrangements    Mostly complied with, with some
and staff as specified under part A of  gaps.
Schedule 4 of DCA; and appoint
qualified local counterpart to closely
work with and receive training from
the consultants contracted under the
project.
3.05              12       NC    Borrower shall ensure the timely   Failure to implement pilot projects
implementation of the implementation and delays in preparing structure



Agreement/   Covenant  Status            Covenant Description       |           Comments
Section       Type
agreements entered into between    plans led this to be unnecessary.
MAE and the Project Cities and the
Municipal Development Programs
prepared by each such city.
3.06              07        NC    Borrower shall take all necessary   No resettlement necessary due to
measures to prepare and implement   failure to implement pilot projects.
resettlement plans referred to under
Part C.3 of the Project, in accordance
with the terms, criteria and a
timetable agreed upon between the
Borrower and IDA, and with the
objective of restoring the incomes of
displaced people to allow them to
maintain or improve their standard of
living.
3.07              01        CP    Borrower shall (a) open and maintain  Replenishment irregular and notto
a project account in local currency, in the full amount.
a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA; (b)
make an initial deposit into such an
account of $60,000; and (c) deposit
every four months such an amount as
shall be required to replenish such
account.
4.01              01         C     Borrower shall (a) maintain financial  Audits received and unqualified.
records and account; (b)perform
independent annual audits of project
accounts and furnish certified copy to
IDA within 9 months; and (c)
maintain records and accounts
reflecting expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made.
C = complied with; CD = comp ied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. None
2.
3.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                    Actual
Stage of     Weeks          US$         Weeks            $         Weeks         US$
project cycle            I                W_k _                      Wek           (000)
Preparation      NA           NA            NA           NA            44           80.4
to appraisal
Appraisal        NA           NA            NA           NA            66          131.8
Negotiations     NA           NA            NA           NA            4.9          11.8
through
Board
approval
Supervision      110          NA            NA           NA           97.8         241.1
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Not Available
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project    Month   Number       Days      Specialized   Performance      Types of
cycle         /Year       of       in field    staff skills   rating         problems/
_     persons             represented                     Notes
Through appraisal                        r__l-___---_ _
Identification    9/91     3          20       d,                   Not applicable
Preparation   12/91      6          18       a, d, h, n,           Not applicable
Pre-appraisal   4/92      7           13      a, d, e, f, n,        Not applicable
Appraisal through
Board approval
Supervision
Preparation for      3/94        2          10       a, d,          Not appl.   Slow progress
implementation                                                                  towards effect.
Supervision 1        11/94       2          3        d, e,             S         Slow progress
Supervision 2        3/95        2          6       a, d               S        Need to establish
SA
Supervision 3        7/95        1          5        a,                 S       Launch
workshop
Supervision 4        11/95       4          10       a, d, g            S       Election law
package
withdrawn
Supervision 5        3/96        3          4        a, d,               S       dNelayews
Supervision 6        11/96       5          3        d, i, m            SMid-term review
Supervision 7        4/97        1          2        d,                 SSlow progress on
Supervision 8        6/97        2          15       a, j               S       taning
Slow progress
Supervision 9        10/97       2          4        a, d               SExtension and
I                            restructuing



Supervision 10       4/98  1   1    |       3      | d,         I      S       I
Completion           2/99        3          10          d, e,i         S              ICR
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT (PROL)
(Project MZ-PE-1791, Credit 253000 - MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
1. A World Bank mission visited Mozambique from February 22 to March 12, 1999
during which they undertook the Implementation Completion Mission of the
above project. The mission team consisted of Mr. Alan Carroll (Team
Leader/Senior Urban Development Specialist), Mr. Jocelyn Mason
(Consultant/Public Administration Specialist), and Mr. Luis Carvalho
(Consultant/Civil Engineer). The mission is grateful for the valuable assistance
provided by his Excellency the Minister of State Administration, the officials and
staff of the Ministry of State Administration/National Directorate of Local
Administration (MAE/DNAL), and the Presidents and staff of the Municipal
Councils of Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba. A list of people met is
attached as annex 1. The mission would especially like to thank the officials of
Municipal Governments of Beira and Nampula for the courtesies shown Mr.
Mason and Mr. Carvalho during their visit to those cities. This Aide Memoire will
be included in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) as an annex.
2. Special Account. The mission noted the customary grace period for Bank projects
is four months, and the mission hereby informs the Government that it will honor
requests for payments up to June 30, 1999 for goods and services delivered prior
to the closing date.
3. A project evaluation workshop was held on Tuesday, March 9th, (a list of
attendees is attached as annex 2). The Government and the Bank agree that, while
the project suffered from a number of problems in design and implementation,
which will be dealt with in detail in the ICR, the project did achieve its
development objectives. The following main points were made.
(a) Component 1 of the project, Legal and Institutional Reform, implemented by
Working Group 1, was also largely completed and successful, although gaps in
the legislation remain. The activities of this component can be described as the
legal dimensions of Component 2, but the coordination between the two
Working Groups was poor.
(b) Component 2 of the project, Fiscal, Financial and Organizational Reform,
implemented by Working Group 2, was largely completed and was successful.
The legislation enabling the 33 provincial capitals, cities and towns to be
administered independently by an elected government is now in place. The
first stages of decentralization to the municipalities has taken place: local
elections took place in July 1998, the new municipal governments were
installed in August 1998, and the first steps towards making local government
effective have been taken. However, gaps in the legislation remain, and
although a first successful seminar was held in October 1998, little of the
training of the new elected officials and their administrations took place as



APPENDIX A
planned.
(c) Component 3 of the project, Urban/Environmental Management, implemented
by Working Group 3, consisted primarily of rapid mapping exercises and
developing structure plans for each of the five cities, as well as pilot civil
works projects. While the rapid mapping and the structure plans, as well as the
installation of the technical support groups (GTLs) for the five municipalities
were notable successes, although considerably delayed, none of the pilot
projects was begun.
4. The mission took note of the view, expressed broadly by all Government
counterparts, that Bank implementation performance was unsatisfactory, because
of the unusually large number of task managers involved in the project, and
because the Bank failed to perform an adequately facilitating role during project
implementation.
5. Before the workshop, the mission also met separately and extensively with
Working Groups I, II and Im, as well as the TSU. These meetings provided
important information and insights relating to the management of the project
which will form part of the ICR analysis.
6. In addition, Mr. Carvalho and Mr. Mason visited the cities of Beira and Nampula,
where they met with the PROL project units as well as the new Municipal Council
Presidents, members of the Municipal Council, the Assembly Presidents, and
directors of municipal departments. These trips were highly informative,
providing additional insights for the PROL evaluation.
7. Next Steps. The mission that the Bank's Disbursement Department has agreed
that the Special Account would be replenished to the amount of $50,000 until the
closing date of the project in order to provide for the volume of end-of-project
expenditures. The mission also committed the Bank to do all it could to expedite
the processing of replenishment requests.
8. The mission discussed the following steps that would need to take place as part of
the Bank's ICR process:
(a) On project completion, Government staff will provide the Bank with the data
for the ICR tables as discussed during the mission; these tables may be
prepared as soon as the closing date is over, and any changes to the tables
resulting from payments during the grace period can be included in the final
version of the ICR as detailed below- due April 15;
(b) Government staff will prepare an evaluation report which it will send to Bank
staff to be included as an annex to the ICR (the mission also understands that
the "Avaliacao Final do Proj eto" document presented during the evaluation
workshop is not the Government's final evaluation report) - due April 15;
(c) Bank staff will prepare a draft of the ICR which it will clear with Bank
management - June I



APPENDIX A
(d) Bank staff to send the cleared draft ICR to the Government - June 15;
(e) Government to provide Bank staff with written comments on the draft ICR if
they wish, which will be included as an annex to the ICR, and any changes to
the ICR tables - June 30;
(f) The ICR will be delivered to the Bank's Board - June 30.
March 10, 1999






APPENDIX A
Annex 1.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT (PROL)
(Project MZ-PE-1791, Credit 253000 - MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
List of People Met
Ministry of State Administration
H.E. Alfredo Gamito, Minister
MAE/National Directorate of Local Administration (DNAL)
Jose Guambe, Director
Ministry of Works and Housing
Jorge Pedro de Eusebio
Working Group I
Fernando Loureiro Bastos
Rui Pinto
Emidio R. Nhamissitane
Working Group II
Lourenco Pinhal, Head
Milton Rocha
Manuel Macomba
Working Group Im
Joaquim Almeida Femandes
Charlotte Allen
Artindo Dgedge
Antonio Tovela
Technical Support Unit
Mr. Guiliche
Rosinda Nunes
Esmeraldo Pardal
City of Nampula
H.E. Dionisio Chereua, President of the Municipal Council
H.E. Cassamo D. Mussage, President of the Municipal Assembly
Felix Socre, Head of Urban Services
Emesto, Municipal Urban Services
Gaspar, Municipal Urban Services
Mr. Patua, Head of the Human resources Department
Mr. Aboo, Head of Financial Department
Dr. Jaime, Director, DPAC
Mr. Equasune, Environment Department (PROL)
Mr. Marques, Environment Department (PROL)



APPENDIX A
Polcarpio Napica, Head of the Centro de Desenvolvimento Sustentavel (CDS)
Jorge Tinga, PROL Coordinator and Assesor de Administracao e Financas
Mikko Mansikka, PLANCENTER
Timo Ripatti, PLANCENTER
Tapio Toropainen, PLANCENTER
Erik Sj6berg, Suomen Ymparistokeskus
Adolphus Arno, First Secretary, Embassy of the Netherlands
Province of Nampula
Mr. Remo, DPAC
City of Beira
H.E. Joao Azinheira Filipe, Council Member, Alternate President of the Council
H.E. Luis Neves, Council Member
H.E. Louran,o Ferreira Bulha, President of the Assembly
H.E. Paulo Lourenco, Council Member
H.E. Nhacutsane R. Muianga, Council Member
Mr. Mussengue, Director for Construction and Urbanization
Ross Palmer, Palmer Associates Projecta Scott Wilson Joint Venture
Caroline Pitt, Palmer Associates Projecta Scott Wilson Joint Venture
Francisco Perreira, Palmer Associates Projecta Scott Wilson Joint Venture
Province of Sofala
Mr. Jaime, DPAC



International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA/SecM99-6 13/1
FROM: Vice President and Secretary                       October 29, 1999
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit No. 2530-MOZ)
Corrigendum
Attached is a copy of Appendix B, Borrower's Evaluation Report, which was omitted
inadvertently. The original report entitled "Implementation Completion Report: Republic of
Mozambique: Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (Credit No. 2530-MOZ)," dated
October 12, 1999 (Report No. 19789) prepared by the Africa Regional Office, was distributed on
October 25, 1999 under IDA/SecM99-613.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perform,ance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



APPENDIX B
Government Evaluation of the Local Government Reform and Engineering Project
(Credit 2530-MOZ)



I



REPUBLICA DE MO(AMBIQUE
MINISTEtIO DA ADMINISTRACAO ESTATAL
DIRECCAO NACIONAL DE ADMINISTRA(AO LOCAL
AVALIACAO FINAL DOS OBJECTIVOS DO PROJECTO DE
REFORMA DOS ORGAOS LOCAIS E ENGENHARIA (PROL)
(Efectividade de 14 de Jillho de 1994 a 31 de Marco de 1999)



I



REPUBLICA DE MOI;AMBIQUE
M1NISTERIO DA ADMINISTRA4:AO ESTATAL
DIREC4:AO NACIONAL DE ADMNISTRACAO LOCAL
AVALIA(A0 FINAL DO PROJECTO DE REFORMA DOS ORGAOS LOCAIS
E ENGENHARIA
1, INTRODU(4CO
O Programa de Reforma dos Orgaos Locais(PROL) e um conjunto de
medidas de politica em que genese remonta a meados dos anos 80 e cujo
impulso advem da op,co pela abertura a democracia politica e ao
multipartidarismo consubstanciado na Constitui,co de 1990.
O   diagn6stico  e  respectiva  estrategia  resultou  do  Seminario
"Descentralizac,o e Autonomia dos Orgaos Locais" efectuado em Maputo
em Novembro de 1991, do qua] se destacou a clara recomenda,ao no
sentido da Descentraliza,co, como forma de aprofundamento da pratica
democratica no sentido pluralista e como rem6dio para alguns problemas
que constituem obstaculo para o desenvolvimento econ6mico e social e da
atribui,co de autonomia administrativa, financeira e patrimonial a
entidades locais, com personalidade juridica pr6pria, dirigidas por quadros
eleitos pelas populagoes atraves de actos eleitorais livres e amplamente
praticados.
O segundo Seminario sobre o PROL, enquanto programa, que decorreu
em Maputo no mes de Abril de 1993, organizado pelo Ministerio da
Administra,co Estatal(MAE), constituiu sequencia l6gica e necessaria do
1. Debru,ou-se tambem sobre o processo de descentralizac,o, nas suas
varias vertentes, desde a administrativa ate a financeira. Enunciou-se os
riscos do processo de descentraliza,co. Analisou-se ainda o contexto
sociol6gico, antropol6gico, cultural e juridico da autoridade tradicional nc
Pais.
Com base nas conclusoes do I Semindrio, o Conselho de Ministros decidiu
aprovar, em linhas gerais, o principio da descentralizacao, a quat deveria
processar-se gradualmente, devendo iniciar-se em algumas cidades e
distritos, a come,ar pelas cinco entao definidas: Maputo, Beira, Nampula,
Quelimane e Pemba, um plano de trabalho e ratificaram-se os contactos ja
em curso com institui,ces financiadoras, nomeadamente Banco Mundial e
ASDI.



Concomitantemente, foi criada uma Comissao Interministerial composta
por varios Ministros (Ministros da Administraqao Estatal, das Finan,as,
da Construc,o e Aguas, do Trabalho, da Justi,a e o entao Vice- iMinistro
do Plano), a qual acompanharia a reforma institucional dos 6rgaos locais.
Para alem disso, seria criado um grupo coordenador, composto por
Directores Nacionais de v6rios Ministerios, que acompanharia os trabalhos
dos varios grupos tecnicos.
2. OBJECTIVOS DO PROJECTO
2.1 Objectivos Gerais
* Descentralizacao administrativa das cidades de Maputo, Beira,
Quelimanrie, Nampula e Pemba na fase piloto;
* Melhorar as condi,ces de vida das comunidades locais.
2.2 Objectivos Por Componentes
2.2.1 Componente I - InstitucionaltLegal
* Elabora,co de projectos de reforma institucional e legislativa;
* Realiza9co da formagao profissional dos funcionarios e dos elementos
integrantes dos 6rgaos eleitos.
2.2.2 Componente II - Finangas Locais
* Refor,ar o sistema de transferencias or,amentais;
 Mobilizar recursos locais;
* Melhorar o sistema de fiuncionamento dos servicos urbanos;
 Refor9ar a contabilidade, or,amento, gestao financeira e sistema de
dados;
* Refor,ar as funq6es  dos  Governos Locais, as condi,ces para
recrutamento e, os programas de forrnaao.
2.2.3ifa - Infra-estruturas e Meio Ambiente
* Realizar programas de desenvolvimento Municipal nas cinco cidades;
* Preparar e implementar projectos-piloto incluindo a participa,co de
entidades do sector privado;
* Projectar e realizar pIanos de assentamento necessarios para realocar
pessoas deslocadas devido a implementa,co dos projectos-piloto.
2.2.4. IV - Reforco Da Capacidade Institucional Da GestAo Do Projecto
* Dotar as cinco cidades de capacidade institucional para a aplica,co do
quadro legal municipal, da regulamenta,co financeira e administrativa;
* Estabelecer e operacionalizar uma Unidade de Apoio T6cnico(UAT);
2



* Refor,ar o HABITAR(actual Departamento de Habita,co- INAHU);
* Reforcar a CNA(actual MICOA).
3. PERIODO DO ADIANTAMENTO PARA A PREPARA(4AO DO
PROJECTO (PROJECT PREPARATION-PPF)
O PPF iniciou em 1992 e durante a sua vigencia foram realizadas as
seguintes tarefas:
a) Delineamento do escopo e do universo do Projecto de Reforma dos
Orgaos Locais e Engenharia;
b) Elabora,co dos TORs das tres componentes do Projecto e do TSU
(Unidade de Apoio Tecnico);
c) Prepara,co dos documentos preliminares para as negocia,oes do
Acordo   de  Credito  corm   a  Associacao  Internacional  de
Desenvolvimento (International Development Association-IDA) do
Banco Mundial;
d) Entre a data da assinatura do acordo(Development Credit Agreement-
DCA)realizado em 17 de Setembro de 1993 e a efectividade do mesmo
foram satisfeitas as seguintes condi,ces indispensaveis para que ela
tivesse lugar:
(i)   Concep,ao e entrada em funcionamento da Unidade Tecnica de
Apoio(TSU com a sua subdivisao "HABITAR de apoio do Grupo
III):
(ii)  Elaboracao dos terrnos de referencia, respectivo  concurso e
contrata9ao  de  um   planificador  urbano  senior,  Auditor
independente(Price Waterhouse), Gestor para o Grupo III;
(iii)  Idem   de uma Empresa afim  de realizar estudos nas areas
organizativa, financeira e de recursos Humanos(KPMG PIET
Marwick- Instituto Brasileiro para a Administra,co Municipal-
Cons6rcio KPMG/IBAM);
(iv)  Assinatura de acordos entre o MAE e os Conselho Executivos das
cinco cidades;
(v)   Abertura de uma conta para o projecto, em meticais num montante
equivalente a 60.000 d6lares Americanos;
(vi)  Actualiza,co  dos  TORs  dos projectos  de Nampula(Piloto),
transporte nao motorizado (Beira) mapeamento rapido das cinco
cidades e dos consultores individuais;
(vii) Elaboracao de draft para lanaramento de um  concurso para
qualifica,co de Empresas para os concursos de plano de estrutura.
Durante este periodo o PPF teve o concurso dos seguintes Task-Managers:
;



Robert Chavez, Kingsley O.Robotham, Richard Beardmore.
Paralelamente foram levadas a cabo as seguintes acgoes:
a) Compila,co e estudo da legisla,co vigente sobre os servi,os publicos;
b) Primeiros estudos de natureza organizativa financeira e patrimonial
para delineamento das linhas gerais;
c) Execu,co financeira e material do PPF.
Os estudos referidos nas alineas a) e b) deram lugar a um anteprojecto de
Lei QUADRO sobre Distritos urbanos e Rurais, o qual viria a ser aprovado
pela Assembleia da Repuiblica (A. R.) em Setembro de 1 994(Lei 3/94).
4. EXECUfJAO DO ACORDO DE CREDITO
4.1 0 acordo de credito teve a sua vigencia de 20 de Julho de 1994 a 31 de
Margo de 1999, nele incluido o beneficio da extensao de urn ano aprovado
pelo IDA.
Durante esse percurso formalizou-se a estrutura organizativa do PROL e
procederam-se As ac,6es e demais tarefas a ele cometidas.
Verificada que foi a ultima,ao do anteprojecto da Lei sobre o Quadro
Legal Autarquico, o qual, como anteriormente se mencionou, foi aprovado
pela A. R., passando a ser designado por Lei n 3/94, de 13 de Setembro.
Com base nele procedeu-se a sua dessiminagao atraves de seminarios
realizados nas cinco cidades, os quais tiveram a participacao da sociedade
civil, das associag5es econ6micas e sindicais, da comunidade religiosa,
para alem de elementos pertencentes a Administragao Puiblica, quer de
nivel central ou provincial, quer de nivel local. Neste lan,amento
procedeu-se tamb6m a analise pormenorizada das normas contidas na Lei
Quadro.
A arguic,o da sua inconstitucionalidade levaram a novos estudos e debates
que culminaram com a alterac,o pontual da Constitui,co verificada em
1996, com a consequente modificagao da filosofia que enformara o ante-
projecto acima referido, o que levou ao refazemento de novos estudos
tendentes ao delineamento do universo da descentralizacao, dentro dos
principios saos da democracia e do multipartidarismo.
A nova Lei Quadro foi aprovada pela A. R. cabendo-lhe o n 2/97 de 18 de
Fevereiro e com ela iniciou-se o processo de elabora,co das restantes leis
que iriam constituir o pacote legislativo da descentralizagao, a saber:
4



Lei no 6/97- que criou o quadro Juridico e Legal para a realiza,co das
eleigces dos 6rgaos municipais;
Lei n 4/97- que cria a Comissao Nacional de elei,ces;
Lei n 4/94- que institucionaliza o recenseamento eleitoral sistematico;
Lei n 7/97- que estabelece a tutela administrativa;
Lei no 8/97- Estatuto especifico de Maputo;
Lei n 9/97- que define o estatuto dos titulares e dos membros dos orgaos
autarquicos;
Lei no- 10/97 que cria o municipio em 12 cidades e 10 vilas, para alem das
11 anteriormente criadas;
Lei no- 11/97 que estabelece o regime Juridico das finan,as e patrirn6nio
autarquicos.
4.2. Na execu,co do PROL houve o concurso de:
Grupo I:
n Seis Juristas seniores, dos quais quatro de curta dura,co e dois de
dura9ao media,
a Dois Juristas de curta dura,co e tres de curtissima dura9co, todos
juniores
Com este grupo foi feita a formula,co das Leis ja referidas,
consubstanciado nas bases t6cnicas apresentadas.
Coube-lhes tambem a analise e aprecia,co de diplomas regulamentares
celebrados pelo G-II;
Grupo II:
Este grupo teve desde o inicio um consultor coadjuvado por tres tecnicos
do MAE e foi assistido pelo Cons6rcio KPMG/IBAM. A sua actuagao
centrou-se nos estudos das areas econ6mico- financeiras quer do Estado
quer das cidades objecto do projecto e nao s6, e, bem assim, na parte
organizativa e de recursos humanos das cidades com vista as estruturas
municipais.
Teve posteriormente ap6s o termo do contrato com o Cons6rcio o concurso
de dois consultores seniores um para a area financeira e outro para a
Administra,co Municipal e de mais cinco consultores juniores que vieram
a constituir os grupos tecnicos locais das cinco cidades. Este grupo de
consultores deu a sua colabora,ao atraves de contratos de curta dura,cao.
Para a prossecu,co de alguns dos diplomas acima referidos foram
efectuados estudos de natureza financeira, econ6mica, organizativa, de
5



recursos humanos, dos quais resultaram em 67 produtos, intermediarios e
finais.
Grupo III
Este grupo foi constituido por consultores individuais e por Empresas e
"Joint Ventures"e tinha a seu cargo a realizagao dos seguintes projectos:
 Planos de estrutura para as cinco cidades,
* Planos de acq6es para as cinco cidades,
 Recupera ao de infra-estruturas integradas de Natite em Pemba,
* Planeamento e gestao ambiental urbana da cidade de Nampula,
 Transporte nao motorizado para a cidade da Beira,
 Mapeamento rapido das cinco cidades e
 Enderecamento da cidade de Maputo.
5. RESULTADOS DA EXECU(.&O DO CREDITO
Nao obstante algumas limita,ces ocasionadas quer pela argui,ao de
inconstitucionalidade da Lei nuimero 3/94, o que levou a repensar todo o
processo situagao amplamente circunstanciada no relat6rio final do PROL-
o principal obiectivo deste projecto foi alcancado. Trata-se do culminar de
um processo de descentraliza,co gradual com a instituiqao de entidades
com autonomia administrativa, financeira e patrimonial, com
personalidade Juridica pr6pria distinta da do Estado:
Estamos a referir a realiza,co das eleigoes autarquicas efectivadas em
Junho de 1998 nos 33 municipios existentes, com o conferimento da posse
em Agosto do mesmo ano e com ela o inicio do exercicio "de facto" da
actividade municipal em Mo,ambique. Estao ja decorridos 9 meses desse
mesmo exercicio e tudo concorre e assegura o seu sucesso.
6. RESULTADOS POR ALCAN(CAR
As  dilac6es  verificadas  no   processo   quer  motivadas  pela
inconstitucionalidade de Lei 3/94 quer pela reformnulacao dos termos de
referencia dos sub-proj ectos do Grupo III quer ainda na demora da
aprovagao da extensao do contrato do Cons6rcio KPMG/IBAM,
ocasionaram um deslocamento das fases sequenciadas do projecto o que,
como nao poderia deixar de ser, resultou no nao cumprimento do m6dulo
dos desembolsos, o que necessariamente obrigou a uma projecgao que
excedia o limite temporal contido no Acordo de Credito, ou seja, 31 de
Margo de 1998.
6



Frisa-se, contudo, que tal facto nao obstou, como ja se mencionou, a que se
alcangasse o objectivo principal do projecto: 0 estabelecimento real e
concreto dos Municipios.
Foi precisamente por isso que se fizeram duas solicita,ces de extensao do
termo do projecto por mais um ano. Contudo, s6 a primeira mereceu a
aprova,ao, nao obstante existir um saldo de 10.478.895,31, nele incluso o
montante de 5.021.951,22 cuja redu,co fora efectuada por nao ter sido
cumprido os parametros do m6dulo de desembolsos. Esse facto nao veio
permitir a implementacao das experiencias- piloto que deveriam ter sido
efectuadas na base do quadro juridico- legal aprovados e do inicio da
autarciza,ao, pelo periodo de um  ano, como constava constava do
cronograma do projecto PROL.
Este exercicio teria sido de primordial importancia na edifica,co do
edificio municipal uma vez que teria sido o laborat6rio na qual haveria a
oportunidade de se rectificar quaisquer imperfeic6es, corrigir desvios e
sanar lacunas.
7. CONCLUSAO
O processo foi de merecimento pela realidade que hoje se verifica nas 23
cidades e 10 vilas, tendo valido a pena e ser de louvar todos os esforcos
nele concentrados.
Como nao poderia deixar de ser, trata-se do inicio, da arrancada, do
municipalismo no Pais, pelo que ha ainda um longo caminho a trilhar para
seu aprimoramento e solidificagao, devendo-se debruyar sobre Areas como:
institucionaliza9ao dos 33 municipios, capacitacao quer em termos de
forrnacao e treinamento do pessoal existente e o a recrutar quer de
apetrechamento  de  equipamentos  e  espa,os, complementar com
dispositivos legais de certos segmentos das Areas Administrativa,
Financeira e de prestacao de servi9os, provenientes de lacunas ou dos
ensinamentos apreendidos durante o processo, criagao de condi9oes com
reabilita9ao de infra- estruturas existentes com vista a uma melhor
prestacao de servi9os aos seus municipes e o melhoramento do meio-
ambiente.
Em anexo um mapa diagramatico de recolha e analise de ac,ces e
objectivos do PROL e outro de execu,co de Credito que faz parte
integrante desta avaliagao.
Maputo, Junho de 1999
7



I



AVALIA AO FNAL DOS OBJEC1TIVOS DO PROL
NO                   AC:OES                                 REALIZAjOES                          PRODUTOS            AVALIA(hAO
1,-   Refor5o Instituclonal e gest3o do Projecto
1.1    Assessoria tecnica ao MAE                Prestada a assessoria t6cnica ao MAE em                               Bom
varios dominlos
1.2   Forma,c5o aos t6cnicos do MAE             Realizada a formag5o de todos os t6cnicos do                          Bom
MAE em
materias de legislag5o autirquica
1.3   Forma,co as autarqulas sobre:
a) Quadro legal                          Fol realizado um curso para os Presidentes das                        Excelente
Assemblelas e Conselhos Municipais e t6cnicos
das 33 autarqulas
b) Regime financeiro                     idem                                                                  Regular
c) Procedimentos adminlstrativos         idem                                                                  Insuficlento
1.4   InstItuclonalizag5o da Unidade de Apolo Felta                                          TOR
Tecnlco (UATtTSU)  Operacionalidade da
TSU nas varlas 6reas
Preparar,ao de encontros, contactos com o WB,                        Regular,
1.4.1  Desenvolvlmento     Administratlivo    e Minist6flos do Plano e Flnan,as, das Obras                            contudo  actuou
Organizacinal                            Publicas e Habitav3o e para a Coordena,0o da                          nos Altimos dols
Ac,cao  Amblental, com  o  INPF  e  outras                           anos
Institulc6es



1.4.2  Na    rea   do   Aqulshco   d        e  Feltas  algumas  aquisigoes  de  viaturas,               _Deficlente, cor
("Procurement")                          equlpamento lnformatico, moblliario, aparelhos                       parte de culpas
de ar condlclonado e consumivels                                     do WB
1.4.3  Na Area de GestAo Financeira             Pagamento  de  prestag6es  de  servlgos  e Processos de contas       Bom
consultores
semestrals e anuais
Auditorlas anuals
1.4.4  Na Area de Coordenaio de FormarAo        Elaborado piano de formarao para as 5 cidades                         Insuficlente, pols
algumas acq6es
foram
canceladas
1.5   Fortalecimnento  e  operacionalidade  do Devido h evolucdo politica do Pais delxou de
HABITAR                                  ser uma acgao relevante, o que levou a sua
extIngao
1.6   Fortaleclmento da ComIss5o Nacional do A CAN transformou-se no Minist6rio para a                                suficlento
Amblento (CAN)                           Coordenagao da Acsao Amblental, tornando-se
beneficibrlo do PROL
2    Avallai5o da Refortna Instituclonal e legal
2.1    Levar a cabo uma reforma legislativa e legal,
Incluindo:
2.1.1  RevIsao  da  legislavao   e  o  quadro Elaboraiao da proposta de Lel Quadro das Aprovac5o da Lei               Bom
administraUvo   dos   governos   locals Autarqulas Locals
(Conselhos ExecuUvos)
21.2  Especificar  o  grau  de  autorldade  e Elaborag5o da proposta de Lel da Tutela Aprovaiao da Lei                Bom
responsabilidade a serem conferidos aos Administrativa do Estado
governos central, provincial e local
________         _                                                              .______________________________ I_____________________



2.1.3  Definilo de unidades tlcnicas a serem Felta                                                               Regular
criadas ou reestruturadas
2.1.4  Elabora,co do quadro legal para permitir a Elabora5ao  do  pacote  autarquico   que Lois                   Bom
Implanta,cao da reforma municipal (Quadro possibilltou  a  realizalizagao  de  eiel,6es
Legal da descentraliza93o) a nivel nacional  autarquicas que culminaram com a Institulgao
de 33 autarqulas
2.1.5  Elaborag3o  de  leis especificas com  a Foistas algumas propostas de regimentos e                          Insuficlentc, pols
finalidade de facilitar a testagem da reforma posturas                                                     o processo n5o
(descentralizagAo) nas cinco cidades do                                                                    fol completo
projecto
2.2   Fortalecimento   da   capacidade    de
Mogamblque  na  area  de  formaao  e
desenvolvimento   de   capacidades   e
habilidades , atraves de:
2.2.1  Desenhar e Implantar um  programa de Realizardo de semin6rios sobre o Pacote                               Razoavel
formacao para grupos chave a nivel central, AutArquico dirigidos a quadros dos nivels
prov Inclal a local                     central, provincial e local
2.2.2  Revis3o da estrutura da Escola de Estado e                                                                 Nao  feila, por
Direlto e do Centro de Formagao em Gestao                                                                  estar   sob   a
Publica Local                                                                                              alrada da DNFP
2.2.3  Desenvolver     habilidades     baslcas
relaclonadas com  as fung6es dos futuros
municipios



Avalla3io da Refonna Fiscal, Financeira e
3     Organlzaclonal
3.1   Fortaleclmento do sistema de transferenclas Aprovag5o  da  Lei 11/97  sobre  Finangas Dlagnosticos e Politlcas Bom
fiscals atrv6s da revisio do sistema de taxas Autarqulcas
e do desenho e lmplementaigo de crit6rlos
orlentadores da parUlha das receitas do
Goerno central e das transferbnclas fiscals  Estudos de impostos de nivel central, provincial
e local
3.2    Mobillzag5o do recursos locals atrav6s de:
3.2.1  RevIs5o de fontes de receltas locals o Consagrado no documento  Mobilizag5o de Dlagn6stlcos e Politicas Boom
desenvolvimento de propostas de reforma   Receltas Locals e transferenclas orcamentals
3.2.2  Estabelecimento  de  prlnciplos  para  a Taxas por llcengas concedidas, Tarifas c taxas Dlagn6sticos e Politicas Bom
recupera,co de custos                    pela prestafAo de scrvltos, colmas e multas
3.3    Melhorar o sistema de financlamento dos
servlgos urbanos atraves de:
3.3.1  RevIsao da estrutura financelra dos servios Elaborado o estudo para o dellneamento da Dlagnbsticos e Politicas  Razoavel
p6ibllcos urbanos e a actual polltica de prestagao de servlgos de utilidade puebllca
estabelecimento das tarifas              urbana
3.3.2  RevlsAo da parUclpag5o do sector privado Consagrado no Estudo de polltcas de servl9os Diagn6sticos e Politicas Razoavel
na prestagfo de servlios urbanos a nivel urbanos de utilidade puiblica a prestag3o do
local o determinac,o do potenclal para um servicos por empresas privadas sob varlas
malor envolvimento                       formas
3.3.3  Determinar a relag30 entro nivels do tarifas e Consagrado no Estudo de politicas do servilos Dlagnosticos e Poilticas  Razoavel
correspondentes custos de opera,ao e urbanos de utilidade publica os mecanismos de
manuteng5o para servi9os especificos    fixagAo de custos
3.3.4  Examinar as  pollticas  do  Invostimonto Consagrado  no docurnento Mobilizarao de Dlagn6sticos e Politicas  RazoAvel
upiblico                _                Receltas Locals e transferenclas orgamentals   _



3.4   Fortalecimento  da  gestao  financeira,
contabilidade,  orcamento   e   sistema
electr6nico de dados atraves de:
3.4.1  Melhorar a contabilidade, or9amentagao, Implanta,co  do  Sistema  de  Gestao  das Manuals de:           Bom
planificac,ao financeira, gestao tributarla e Finangas Locals(SISGEF) nas 5 cidades piloto   Elaborag5o do
controlo Interno                                                                 orc,amento, Execug5o
das Depesas, Tesourarla
Cobranga de receltas,
Contabilidade e Controlo
Interno e Auditoria
3.4.2  Incorporar as  contas  de  capital nos Consagrado na Lel n11/97                                        Bom
orQamentos dos governos locals
3.4.3  Desenvolver o sistema de prestag5o de Contemplado no SISGEF                      Manuals do SISGEF      Bom
contas Incluindo a auditorla o outros
mecanismos de controlo
3.4.4  Introduzlr  sistemas  de  processamento Desenvolvimento c Impantag5o do Sistema Manual de utilizag5o do Bom
electr6nlco de dados e do gestao  de Informatico de Gestao das Flnancas Locals SISGEF
Informag5o                             (SISGEF) nas 5 cidades piloto
3.5   Fortaleclmento das fungoes dos governos
locals, quadros de pessoal e programas de
forma,ao atraves de:
3.5.1  Deflnlr  procedimentos   administrativos Elaborada a proposta de estrutura e quadro de                  Razoavel
relativamente a contabilidade, fung0es pessoal para cada um dos 5 Conselhos
financelras e processamento de dados, Municipals, criados os Gabinetes TUcnlcos
necessidades de pessoal e sua forma,co    Locals  representados  a  nivel local por
assessores contratados
3.5.2  Desenvolver e lmplementar programas de Realizadas duas acq6es de treinamento no                         Bom
formagao para o pessoal financelro a de PROL para o pessoal a trabalhar no sistema
I____ contabilidade                          lnformalico SISGEF Realizadas varlas ac,ces_



do trelnamento "on the job" nas5 cidades para
o pessoal da Area financeira dos Conselihos
______   _ _______________________________  M unicipals
4     Avalla5io da Refonna na Gestio Urbana e
amblental
4.1   Levar a cabo programas de desenvolvimento Elaborados regulamentos de procedimentos                         Razoavel
municipal nas cidades piloto atraves de para   a   plancamento   e   gestao   do
preparacao  e  Implementacao  de  um desenvolvimento urbano Elaborados pianos de
Programa de Dosenvolvimnto  Municipal estrutura  para as cidades de Quolimanc,
para cada Cidade do piloto              Pemba, Nampula, Beira c Dondo  c area
metropoiltana de Maputo e Planos de Acq5o
Prioritarlas para as cidades de Pemba,
Quellmane e Belra
4.2   Prepara$so    e    implementag5o    de
subproJectos piloto Incluindo a participa,ao
do sector privado, nomeadamente:
4.2.1  Melhoramento de Infraestruturas Integradas Inqueritos at populag5o, analise da situag5o                   Deficiente,   as
do Balrro de NaUto (Pemba)              actual do Bairro, anaiise da situacAo financeira,                  obras nao foram
elabora,cao  de  projectos  executivos  de:                       realizadas
mercado, escola primarla, valas de drenagem,
ruas e centro recreativo de Natite.
4.2.2  GestAo Amblental Urbana de Nampula     Elaboragao  de  projectos  executivos  de                          Deficlente,   as
Mercado  e  Posto  de  Saude  de  Muhala,                         obras n3o foram
Morcados de Murrapanlwa e da Faina, Escola                        realizadas
de Namuhato, Vlveiros e canal de Irrigagao,
vias e fontenArlos
4.2.3  Transporte Nao Motorizado na cidade da Elaboragao dos Termos do Refcrencla                                Mau, a compra
Beira                                                                                                     fol cancelada
4.2.4  Mapeamento RapIdo das 5 cidades        Digitalizagao dos mapas, traingula ,ao a6rea, Fotografias   aeres   e Bom,      fol



anallse e planeamento  da Rede Naclonal mapas fotogrametJcos   financlado  pela
Geod6tica, Trelnamento  de de  pessoal e                         NORAD
produrao de docurnentos
4.2.5  Slstemas do Informagao do Solo Urbano de a) Elabora,ao do projecto de construrAo do                    Deficlente,   as
Maputo                                 edificto para o arqulvo do cadastro de Maputo e                  obras nao forarm
langado o respectUvo concurso de obras                           realizadas
b) Crlaq5o de um  sistema simpilficado de                        Deficiente,   as
cadastro  adequado  aos  varlos  tipos  de                       obras nao foram
ocupagao                                                         realizadas
c) Numera,co das ruas e afixag3o de placas, Cria,cao de uma celula de Bom,    foi
actualizagao da numera,co das portas de endereramento           financlado  pela
entrada, edlqAo de um gula de endere,amento                      cooperagao
da cidade, edliao de mapas de enderecramento                     francesa
e organizac, o de um ficheiro informatisado
4.3   Desenho  a  reallza5ao  de  pianos  de Realizadas dIscuss5es com as populac,es alvo                      Deficlente,   as
reassentamento das pesssoas afectadas e definidas zonas alternativas para a fixagao                     obras n3o foram
pela Implementag3o dos subproJectos phioto                                                              realizadas



91ISTERIO DA AW ItlPlSTRAO lSTATAL
PROL - CA. 2520/tZ
CASTOS TOTA1S OCSOD  1994 ATt 41ABRIL DX 1999 POR CATCOORIAS Dr DCSEmBOLSOS
tUNIDAPt - USD9                     GASTOS
~~~~          ~~       ~~    ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~ t;0.9.210PlRD1CAO
CO97              CA7tGORWAS                  VALOR ORCAHI NTADO
$01           USD 1.             1994             199I             1996              1997             1999             116B            I7TAIs          DEL VO  A.         SALOS
91)  929                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAIl S 61ABRI  1'LLO "W94
(31                             5.t.-.4
1     STUDIES AHID AUDITICS              3.140,000.00   4.441.931.22                                                                                                                                                 42421,911 .2
2     CONSVLTAN?'S SRVICIES              4.100,000.00   4,949,300.49         951,243.00    2,227,494.94    1.409.210.91    1.293.9603.30    1.951,466 30   3,3331,46496            .1,9.3                            312.0
3     TCO SULS N                         1.040.000.00   2,402,926.63                          124,500.36 7S      7172.95        136,340160        527,041,45        563076191       931,372.31    1,046.,21.77    2,111.921.19
4     CIVIL liORlt 1UECR pART                                                                                                                                                                                        1,J01,46.1
C.2. or Tht PPOJECT                 920,000.00   1.391,463.4.
I     VESOCLES Eg4JII'9E11 SPARE
PARIS AND 9UPPLIti                1,S90,000.00    2,900,975.61                                           79,011.01       305,751.23        292,194.57        57,750.00       724,706491    1,981,463.41    5,957,732.21
*  19CRfli.9TAL OPERA94I9ZG
COSTS                             1,760,000.00   2,469.156.10                            11,010,16       19,349,46         90,.9S660      1S,992.91         20,310.46       297,719.S7    2,09,656.564   4,205,626.07
7      SE6VICIES UIIDE0 PApT C.3
OF THE PROJECT                       70,000.00        99,024.39
*     iREltJrmi94o  or PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                         22,57V07
PR2PARATIONl ADYANCE                90Q,000.00   1,213.110.13         990,591.66                                                                                             .9,5244 .95'1.2
9     U94AL.OCATEO                       1,090,000.00   1,541,951.22
TOTAL              IS,400,000.00   23,200,000.00    1,99.1937.66    2,363,005.16    1,595,143.37    1,929,.31.91    2,924,605 13   1,261,601.55   12,721,104.69    5,021.951.22   10,47b.095.31
DOS: 0 valor total do cv.dlto, tol raduzido d. 10R 14.400.000,00
p... SD0  12.950.00,00 p.l  dd....o d. v-rb..  .           orl
3 - Tra1nin7: 5 - V.hic. Cqotp.l * 6 - Inc. Op. Co.tm, no v9lor
global da JOR 3.550.000,00 .USD5.005.500,00ocorrld.a Da  mbro da 1997.
.  S _ 



APPENDIX B
Annex 2.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFORM AND ENGINEERING PROJECT (PROL)
(Project MZPE-1791, Credit 253000 - MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
List of Attendees at the PROL Evaluation Workshop
Institution/lnstituicao    Name/Nome                    Position/Posicao
Banco de Mocambique         Francisco Mendes               Tec. Coordenador de Projectos
Banco Mundial               Alan Carroll                   Chefe de Missao
Banco Mundial               Luis Carvalho                  Consuftor Eng. Civil
Banco Mundial               Jocelyn Mason                  Consultor
CMB                         Edmundo Mussengue              Arquitecto
CMB                         Univanice Muchangage           Presidente
CMC Pemba                   Assubugy Mehgy                 President
CMCP                        Jose de Jesus Avelino          Tec. Florestal/ Director
CMCP Nampula                Jose Marques B. dos Santos     Tecnico Florestal
CMCP Nampula                Dinonisio Cherewa              Presidente
DNHU - MOPH                 Domingos Mawamule              Director
GI - PROL                   Fernando Rostino Macamo        D. N. Adjunto
GTL - Gll - CM Pemba        Alda Reis                      Consultor
GTUGII - Maputo             Severino Mateus                Assessor
GTUGII - Nampula            Jorge Tinga                    Assessor
MAE- DNAL                   Jose Manuel Guambe             Director Nacional
MAE/DNAL                    Holger Jonasson                Assessor
MOPH - IGOP                 Jorge Pedro de Eusebio         Inspector Geral
PROL - TSU                  Esmeraido Pardal               Coord. Formacao
PROL - TSU                  Rosinda Nunes                  Procurement
PROL - Gill                 Arlindo Dgedge                 Arquitecto
PROL - Glil                 Antonio Tovela                 Planificador
PROL - Glil                 Joaquim Almeida Fernandes      Coordenador GliI
PROL - Gill                 Charlotte Allen                Consultora
PROL - Gil                  Lourenco Pinhai                Coordenador
PROL - GP Il - Quelimane    Yasmin Camurdin                Consultor
PROL - Grupo I              Jose Pedro Ramos Assuncao      Consultor
PROL Gill - Beira           Manuel Armando                 Planificador Urbano
Quelimane                   Rafael Adeus M.                Eng. Tecnico Civil
Quelimane                   Pio Matos                      Presidente



APPENDIX C
PROL MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES
rcoM
Mi. MAE. 
IMIC
E   E            2 3                  3        rM81 11             E
I                  i---                 M                                  ---------
_--___~~~ --                                                                                                /
~~~ 11 ~~~~~                      DNAL Director||           -                        L\            /
I  F   ~ ~  ----      -----    ---1   --1---  --  -----------------------
r- - -- -1-         -- - -- --- 
WGI              ~~~WGII                 WGIIROEC
C   C                       C                 :                  1|    ~~~~~~~~~~SECRETARIAT|    R     T
||Consult   |           Consult 1             |Cnut|
N   Municipalit o     a
Note: HABITAR was canicelled a month after effectiveness, and WGIII reported directly to TSU and DNAL.



