Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY FILE COPY
Report No. 2430b-TR
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 21, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(since June 1976)
Currency Unit             = Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$)
US$1.00                   = TT$2.40
TT$1.00                   = US$0.42
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)       = 10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM - Caribbean Common Market
ECIAF   - Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and Forestry
EEC     - European Economic Community
EPIU    - Education Unit Projects Implementation Unit
IDB     - Inter-American Development Bank
NCTDC   - National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center
OAS     - Organization of American States
TDC     - Teacher Development Center
GOVERNMENT OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September 1 - August 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT .                   1
II.    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .......................                   2
Assessment of the Education System ......................                  2
Structure and General Administration of the
Education System  .................................                2
Enrollment Characteristics  .........................    3
Primary Education  ..................................                4
Secondary Education ................................                 5
Teacher Education ..................................                 5
Formal and Non-Formal Technical and Vocational
Education .............................................                  6
Education Finance and External Aid  ......................                 8
Education Development Strategy ..........................    10
National  ..........         .................................    10
Regional  ..........         .................................    13
Bank Lending Strategy ...................................    14
III.    THE PROJECT ...........           ..................................    15
Objectives and Content  ..................................    15
The Elements of the Project .............................    16
General Education (Primary and Secondary)  ....             ......   16
Teacher Education ..................................   19
Support Systems: Curriculum Development;
Didactic Materials Production .....              ...............   20
Technical Assistance and Professional Fees ....              .....   21
IV.    COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTING OF
THE PROJECT ..........           .................................    23
Cost Estimates  ..........          ................................    23
Financing Plan   .........           ................................   24
Project Implementation  ..................................   25
Procurement ..............................................   26
Disbursements ..........           .................................    27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Trinidad and Tobago in November, 1978. The mission comprised Messrs. N. Fisher
(educator), A. Stocker (economist) and T. van Tienhoven (civil engineer,
consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.  BENEFITS, RISKS AND EVALUATION  .........................   27
Benefits        ................................................  27
Risks       ...................................................  28
Evaluation        ..............................................  29
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ......................................   29
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - Supporting Tables and Charts
TABLES
T-1 Comparative Education Indicators
T-2 Primary Education Enrollments
T-3 Secondary Education Enrollments
T-4 Number of Teachers in Primary and Secondary Schools
T-5 The Project Secondary Schools: Distribution of Enrollments,
Present Capacity and Additional Places Required
T-6 Summary of Project Costs
T-7 Contingency Allowances
T-8 Public Expenditures in Education
T-9 Technical Assistance
T-10 Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
C-1 Structure of MOEC
C-2 Organization Chart. MOEC Guidance Unit
C-3 Organization Chart. Incorporation of NCTDC Services in MOEC
C-4 Structure of the Education System
C-5 Project Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 2 - Outline Curricula of Primary and Secondary Schools
ANNEX 3 - Principal Functions of the Project Management Services Team
ANNEX 4 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP'



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Area                                                            5,128.0 km
Population (mid-1977)                                           1,114,800
Density                                                      217 per km
Average Annual Population Growth (1970-76)                   1.1%
Literacy                                                      95%
GNP Per Capita (1977)                                           US$2,380
Public Education Expenditure as
% of Total Government Expenditures (1977)
-    Recurrent                                             19.7%
-    Capital                                                7.1%
-    Total                                                 14.1%
Public Education Expenditures as % of GNP (1977)            4.5%
Enrollments (1976/77)
Level                      Total                      % Age Group
Primary                        161,010                           98
Secondary                      108,972                           79
Junior Secondary                79,387                           93
Senior Secondary                29,585                           54
Higher                           7,669                            -
Student/Teacher Ratio (1976/77)
Primary                                                         28:1
Secondary:  Junior Secondary                                    29:1
Senior Secondary                                   21:1






GLOSSARY
Senior Primary Classes. A two-year extension course (Grades 8-9) in primary
schools for students who, on completion of their primary school education
(Grades 1-7) are unsuccessful in the Common Entrance Examination for admis-
sion to a junior secondary school.
Common Entrance Examination. A State-controlled selective examination taken
at the end of the primary school cycle for admission to a junior secondary
school.
14 + Examination. A State-controlled selective examination taken on comple-
tion of the junior secondary school cycle (Grade 10) for admission to a senior
secondary school course (Grades 11-12).
Junior Secondary School. A coeducational lower cycle secondary school
(Grades 8-10).
Senior Secondary School. A coeducational upper cycle secondary school
offering academic courses (Grades 11-12) and pre-university (6th Form)
courses (Grades 13-14).
Composite Secondary School. A coeducational secondary school comprising
both lower and upper cycles (Grades 8-12) but not offering pre-university
courses.
Senior Comprehensive School. A coeducational secondary school offering
academic and pre-vocational courses at upper cycle and pre-university
levels (Grades 11/12-14).
Double Shift System. Use of the same educational facility by two groups of
students, one group in the morning, and a second in the afternoon. To de-
shift a school: To convert a school from the double shift to a single shift
system.
General Certificate of Education at Ordinary Level. Certificate awarded on
completion of Grade 12, based on an examination set and graded by a British
University.
General Certificate of Education at Advanced Level. Certificate awarded on
completion of Grade 14, based on an examination set and graded by a British
University. A pre-requisite for university admission.
Caribbean Examinations Council. A Regional Council, representative of the
English speaking Caribbean countries, to organize and administer a Caribbean
Certificate of Education examination to replace the British-based system.
Sandwich Course. A training system whereby workers are released by their
employers for a given period of time in each year of the course to pursue
full-time courses of study at technical institutions. Depending on the annual
duration of these study periods, they are referred to as "thick" or "thin"
sandwich courses.






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
I. SOCIO ECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
1.01      The discovery of additional oil and gas reserves, and the quadrupl>`lg
of world oil prices at the end of 1973, led to a dramatic upturn in Trinidad
and Tobago's economic situation. GNP grew by 7.8% in 1977; fiscal revenues
and foreign exchange reserves have increased sharply. The government has res-
ponded to this improved economic situation by establishing a number of "special
funds" from which to finance investments which it considers basic to its dev-
elopment strategy.  That strategy is to diversify the structure of the economy
by accelerating investments, mainly in industry and infrastructure, and to
provide a wide range of public services in health, education, housing and com-
munity development. The increased investment resources afford an excellent
opportunity to tackle basic social and economic problems, but success will
depend on the extent to which the government is able to improve its administra-
tive and managerial capacity for project planning, preparation and implementa-
tion, and resolve manpower constraints in key sectors.
1.02      The twin islands' population grew at an average 1.1% annually in
the 1970-76 period, and reached 1,114,800 in mid-1977. However, the population
will increase at a rate higher than that previously predicted due to such
factors as the curtailed level of emigration, the lowering of the mortality
rate, and a lower than anticipated decline in birth rates. If current trends
continue, total population may be expected to grow at 2.3% p.a. compared with
the 1% earlier anticipated to prevail through 1985. Although the primary
school age group (5-11) is expected to decline, the secondary and higher age
groups are likely to increase, reflecting the high birth rates in the 50's and
early 60's. If a high proportion of young people were to continue to leave
school without the training or orientation to prepare them for the requirements
of the developing economy, the chronic unemployment (16.2% in 1977), or under-
employment, would worsen.
1.03      The academically-biased education system, and the resultant inade-
quate preparation of labor force entrants, is demonstrably not helping to
reduce unemployment. 1/ Success in schools is measured by achievements in
predominantly academic subjects; the traditional secondary schools prepare
students essentially for white collar jobs (administrative and clerical work)
and artificial labor shortages are thus created for some types of skilled and
manual jobs, particularly in agriculture and construction. Implementation of
proposed reforms in curricula and the examination system is long overdue.
1/   There is some evidence, based on a 1975-76 Manpower survey, that supports
the thesis of a mismatch between educational training and manpower require-
ments. For example (a) of the 305 graduates of secondary schools with the
highest qualifications (6-10 "O" level passes), 296 were still unemployed
6 months after graduating; (b) contrariwise, of 122 graduates of Technical
Schools in the same year, 98 had obtained jobs within the six-month
period.
Source: Survey of Graduates of the Education and Training Systems,
Ministry of Finance (Division of Planning and Development)
Manpower Unit, Trinidad 1976.



- 2 -
1.04      Efforts to improve income distribution and the living standards of
the poor must be linked to improved access to education and training opportu-
nities for this same group. While almost 90% of the labor force has completed
primary education, only 7% of workers have received a secondary education.
1.05      The government's development plan emphasizes the creation of a modern,
capital-intensive energy-based industrial sector. At the same time efforts
will continue to develop agriculture and small-to-medium-scale manufacturing
to absorb the unemployed. The success of this strategy will depend substan-
tially on the government's ability to redirect the education system so as to
utilize fully the country's labor force. Specifically, a major effort is
needed to provide training in the skills needed by industry. The government
recognizes this fact and will continue to devote a major part of its budgetary
expenditures to the education sector, and in this context has accorded a high
priority to vocationally-oriented training. The government further proposes
to give added impetus to craft learning and technical studies in the senior
secondary schools which for some years have been diversifying their curricula
in this direction.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
General
2.01      In 1967 the government of Trinidad and Tobago approved a 15-year
Education Development Plan (1968-1983) which was expected to be implemented
in three phases: 1968-72; 1973-77; and 1978-83. In 1975 the implementation
of the Plan became the focus of considerable discussion, and in the light of
the improved economic situation of the country and the aspirations and needs
of the population it was reappraised. The main guidelines enunciated by the
government are presently being vigorously pursued. The salient objectives are:
to meet new qualitative and quantitative targets at the primary and secondary
levels in consonance with sound educational practice and perceived manpower
needs; to accept the denominational organizations as having a critical and
important role to play in the education system, but to reject the old cost-
sharing formula, with the public sector assuming full responsibility for all
costs; to view the double-shift junior secondary school system as a temporary
measure; to give technology in all its aspects high priority in any modified
Education Plan; and to reject the concept of specialized craft training pro-
grams in separate government vocational schools in favor of an integrated,
comprehensive school system embracing traditional academic, pre-technician,
commercial, industrial and limited specialized craft programs.
Structure and Administration of the Education System
2.02      The structure of the public education and training system is given
in Chart 4. Primary educaticin spans the age range 5-13+ years, and includes
the following three levels: infants (2 years); main primary (5 years); and
senior primary (2 years). The last level is for students unsuccessful in the
Common Entrance Examination for admission to secondary schools. Secondary



education extends over the age range 11-16 years and is divided into two
cycles: junior secondary (3 years; Forms I-III, or grades 8-10); and senior
secondary (2 years; Forms IV-V, or grades 11-12), leading to the General
Certificate of Education at Ordinary Level. An additional Sixth Form
(pre university) course of 2 years (Grades 13-14) is also offered leading to
the General Certificate of Education at Advanced Level. (These examinations
will, over time, be replaced by the Caribbean Certificate of Education
examinations under the administration of the Caribbean Examinations Council.)
Higher education consists of post-secondary institutions (technical institutes,
teacher training colleges, agricultural institutes, etc.) and the University
of the West Indies at St. Augustine. Save for the latter, an autonomous
institution, and some post-secondary institutions (paramedical, agriculture)
coming under other Ministries, the administration of the public education
system is under the direct control of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
The same Ministry is also responsible for the administration of a number of
non-formal, adult and vocational training programs.
Enrollment Characteristics
2.03      While compulsory education terminates at the age of twelve, the
clamor for ever more education is such that enrollments remain high at all
levels, as will be evident from the following summary of Tables 2 and 3.
Enrollments 1976-77
Students
%         %                   Teacher
Level                    Enrollment       Age Group   Female   Teachers    Ratio
Primary                   161,010           97.5         49     5,681 /c      28:1
Secondary:  Total        108,972 /a         79 /a        51     4,095 /d      27:1
Junior Secondary           79,387 /a        93 /a        52     2,713         29:1
Senior Secondary           29,585           54           51     1,382         21:1
Higher                      7,669 /b
/a   Including 23,986 accommodated in senior-primary classes in primary
schools.
/b   Including University of West Indies, Teacher Training Colleges and
Technical Institutes.
/c   Excluding 1,296 in teacher training colleges, and teachers for senior-
primary classes in primary schools.
/d   Including teachers for senior-primary classes in primary schools.
2.04      The above Table demonstrates (i) the near 100% participation rate
of the age group 5-11 years; (ii) the dramatic rise in secondary school enroll-
ments, which in the case of the junior cycle have risen from 41,103 in 1971-
72 to 79,387 (+93%) in 1976-77, and at senior secondary level from 12,958 to
29,585 (+228%) over the same period. When one adds that automatic promotion
and parental commitment to the education of their children have resulted in



- 4 -
neg±igible drop-out and zepeater rates, except in the final year of primary
education (para 2.05) together with a high incidence of school attendance,
the measure of the government's achievements in expanding access to primary
and secondary education in internally efficient schools becomes apparent.
Nonetheless, the magnitude of the government's ambitious education reform
targets has exceeded implementation capacity, and the present system is
showing signs of strain.
2.05      Primary Education.  With the introduction of the Education Reform
oL 1967, primary school curricula were reformulated.  These, however, produced
little significant impact on the quality of education, since the demands of
the Common Entrance Examination9 with its emphasis on conventional academic
programs, to the exclusior of practical subjects and activity-based teaching,
continued to dominate the school timetable. The senior primary classes ope-
rate, in overcrowded and ill equipped premises, an essentially primary school
and quite inadequate curriculum. The present curriculum, revised in 1975 in
expectation of the early abolition of the Common Entrance Examination, is
soundly based on modern educational theory and practice and in the spirit of
the government's new education policy. Its effective introduction into the
schools will not, however, be possible without the initiation of programs to
upgrade physical facilities, many of which are old and outmoded; to reorient
primary school teachers in the new curriculum and methodologies; and to design,
produce and distribute appropriate teaching/learning materials. Thus at pri-
mary level, urgent measures are called for to (a) reconstruct/remodel some
85 outmoded or dilapidated primary schools in which about 35,400 students
(22% of total enrollments) are presently accommodated in conditions which
negate the introduction of a modern curriculum and teaching methodology; (b)
abolish the overcrowded and unsatisfactory senior primary classes in primary
schools, in which some 23,986 students, denied access to junior secondary
schools through lack of facilities, receive an education vastly inferior to
that enjoyed by their peer group; and (c) eliminate the high and wasteful
repetition which occurs in the final (i.e. the selective entrance examination)
year of primary education. The urgency of this latter problem highlights at
once the gap between the government's promotion policies and physical provi-
sion, and the public pressure for secondary education; despite a vigorous
policy of school construction, the mismatch between supply and demand has
scarcely changed over the past eleven years, as is evident from the following
data:
(i)  between 1965/66 and 1976/77 enrollments in senior primary
classes scarcely declined (from 25,367 to 23,986);
(ii)  the voluntary repeater rate for the final grade of primary
education in 1965/66 was 30% (8,338 students); it had only
declined to 28% (9,309 students out of an increased enroll-
ment) in 1976-77;
(iii)  the percentage of 5th grade students, including repeaters,
who failed to obtain a junior secondary place, 65% (18,414)
in 1965/66, remained at a high 44% (14,586) in 1976/77.



-5-
Secondary Education
2.06      At junior secondary level, the proposed abolition by 1983 of
the 11+ Common Entrance Examination (CEE) and the planned automatic promotio-
j all eligible primary graduates to junior secondary courses, will require
a]1 immediate phased program of expansion of the existing, and construction of
new schools of this type. With the abolition of the selective examination,
the government hopes to raise the quality of primary education by the removal
of curriculum distortions commonly associated with selective examination
procedures. The government is currently reassessing its order of priorities
in this subsector, to accord first importance to the resolution of the access
problem rather than to converting the double-shift use of existing junior
secondary schools to a single-shift system.
2.07      At senior secondary level, the government's plan, targeted for
1985, for the automatic promotion of about 90% of junior secondary graduates,
and the conversion of the present 14+ selective examination into a purely
normative device to be administered at the end of the junior secondary cycle,
calls for the expansion of existing, and the construction of new schools of
this level, as well as for radical changes in the type of physical provision
and in curriculum content, if meaningful education is to be offered to the
broader ability spectrum for which these schools will be required to cater.
It is within this context that the government decided to abolish separate
vocational schools and to integrate the craft courses in the senior secondary
program to offer an acceptable balanced course of general and technical educa-
tion, that will meet legitimate aspirations of students and accelerate the
flow of technically-oriented graduates to the labor market.
Teacher Education
2.08      The government recognizes that to reap the full returns from its
school facilities expansion and improvement investment programs, excellence
will derive no less from the quality of the teacher force, and from well con-
ceived teaching support systems, than from physical provision. Thus at pri-
mary school level, with the imminent phasing out by 1979-80 of its basic in-
service training program for unqualified primary teachers, (76% of whom have
now been or are being certificated), the government plans to use resources,
both physical and financial, that will become available to initiate pre-
service courses, and to retrain qualified teachers to adapt to new curricula
and teaching techniques.
2.09      With regard to the junior secondary schools, the majority of staff
are primary teachers who have received short in-service courses to fit them
for their teaching role. Furthermore, the dramatic expansion of senior
secondary education has exposed these schools to a serious dearth of quali-
fied and trained teachers, especially in technical/vocational, science and
mathematics disciplines. This problem will be compounded by (a) the proposed
inclusion of craft courses in all senior secondary schools and (b) a redistri-
bution of enrollments in these schools, to attract more students into technical/
vocational courses. Moreover, in this regard, a major expansion of guidance
and counselling services will be required if students, and their parents, are



- 6 -
to profit wisely from the improved education offering, and the widening course
choices soon to become available. A more intensive and sustained program is
under preparation, using existing institutions as well as the newly proposed
Teacher Development Centers, to produce a fully qualified teaching force for
these schools.
2.10      The government is no less conscious that if equity in education, and
qualitative improvement are to be achieved, the existing incipient services
which cater for curriculum development and for the elaboration, testing and
distribution of didactic material are insufficient to meet the needs of an
expanding school system. Only a substantial expansion of these services will
provide teachers and students, in particular those of limited socio-economic
means, with the indispensable tools of sound learning.
B. Formal and Non-formal Technical and Vocational Education
2.11      The Ministry of Education provides technical and vocational education
of 2-3 years duration in two Technical Institutes (San Fernando and John S.
Donaldson) and one Vocational Center at Point Fortin, trade courses at five
Youth Camps and six Trade Centers, two of which are located in Tobago. The
Ministry of Agriculture offers training courses for farmers at the Farmers'
Training Center, and through three mobile training units included in the
Bank-financed second education project under Loan 862-TR. The same Ministry
operates the Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and Forestry (ECIAF)
which affords two year courses for rural extension officers, mainly but not
exclusively from Trinidad and Tobago. Two/three-year paramedical courses are
the responsibility of the Ministry of Health.
2.12      The San Fernando Technical Institute, provided under the Bank second
education loan (862-TR), prepares technicians and craftsmen for direct entry
to industry and commerce and also offers part-time/sandwich courses for up-
grading of the existing work force. In 1976/77 there were 385 enrollments in
technician courses (25 day and 360 evening students) and 1,155 enrollments in
craft courses (808 day and 385 evening students). The John S. Donaldson Tech-
nical Institute, located in Port of Spain, also offers technician level and
craft courses. Enrollments in 1976-77 totalled 2,139, 769 in technician
courses (231 day and 538 evening students) and 1,370 in craft courses (534
day and 836 evening courses). This Institute also has a recently completed
Technical Teacher Training wing, financed under an IDB project, which has not
as yet become operative.
2.13      Point Fortin Vocational Center, located in the south west of the
island of Trinidad, provides only craft level courses. Enrollments in 1976-77
totalled 406, 121 in day and 285 in evening courses. The Youth Camps and
Trade Centers, initiated in 1966, provide nonformal vocational/practical
training courses for unemployed youths in the 17 to 21 age range. Most
courses are male oriented but the tailoring trades are provided at two Camps
while one caters exclusively for girls. Enrollments have never been high; in
1976-77 they totalled 1,066, of which 188 were in the girls' Camp and about
233 were girls.



- 7 -
2.14      The future role of the technical institutions is under consideration
by the government. Medium and longer term objectives include the gradual
transfer of all basic craft level training to the secondary schools, the
upgrading of the technical institutions to prepare higher level skilled
manpower, and the phasing out of the Youth Camps and Trade Centers once the
backlog of untrained unemployed youth is absorbed into industry. The expan-
sion and redistribution of enrollments in the senior secondary schools are
viewed as major strategies in the achievement of these goals.
2.15      The National Training Board (NTB), was established by the government
in 1972 to advise on technical and vocational education and to coordinate
and standardize craft training and certification in formal institutions and
in industrial enterprises. Although the Board has only lately made any sub-
stantial impact, due to long delays in staff appointments, and although its
future role, within the recently created National Institute of Higher Educa-
tion, charged inter alia with responsibility for coordinating all aspects
of technical, vocational and on-going education, remains unclear, it has
successfully organized a number of courses for managers of in-plant training
courses within the private sector.
2.16      Apprenticeship training in private industry has been relatively
successful in the larger enterprises, either by direct in-plant training
courses or in conjunction with formal government institutions. Smaller
private enterprises have, however, proved incapable of devising similar
apprenticeship training; the government is considering strategies by which
(a) to reduce the normal 5-year apprenticeship scheme to 3 years in the case
of graduates from the senior secondary technician and craft courses and (b)
to develop a national apprenticeship scheme, coordinated and standardized
by the NTB and/or the National Institute of Higher Education. The restruc-
turing of senior secondary courses (para 2.07) should thus serve this policy
of accelerated absorption into industry of prevocationally-trained secondary
school graduates.
2.17      The Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and Forestry is the
regional center for the training of rural extension officers. It offers two
year residential courses to post secondary students sponsored by the Ministry
of Agriculture, by other Caribbean governments, or by private industry. The
Trinidadian Ministry of Education also sponsors a small number of trained
teachers requiring technical upgrading to serve as teachers of agriculture.
Recently girls have been admitted to the course. The yearly intake of about
72 students is typically distributed as follows: 35 sponsored by Ministry
of Agriculture; 15 by the Forestry Division of the same Ministry; 6 by Min-
istry of Education; 16 by foreign governments or private enterprises. In
1978 there were 13 girls in residence.
2.18      Paramedical training courses are operated by the Ministry of Health.
A newly constructed Nurses Training Center, conjointly with local hospitals,
graduates 100 registered nurses annually in 3-year training programs, and
about 35 auxiliary nurses annually in 2-year courses. The recently renovated
Dental Nurses Training Center conducts 2-year training programs, with an
annual output of 35. Graduates of these courses are attached to one or other



- 8 -
of the more than 100 Public Health Centers located in major centers of popula-
tion across the two islands, and of which some 31 are presently being rehabi-
litated or constructed under an IDB assistance project. It is intended that
graduates from these training programs will increasingly be attached to one
or more schools remote from the Public Health Centers, each base school being
provided with the essential yet modest medico-dental physical facilities.
2.19      The growing importance of the Guidance and Counselling services has
not gone unnoticed by the government: Over the past four years a part-time
day release program operated by the Ministry of Education in conjunction with
the Ministry of Health and the University of the West Indies, has provided
basic in-service training in counselling to some 200 teachers. An expanded
Guidance Service, and a fully professionalized staff is now envisioned in two
phases: the appointment, training, and assignment of 116 officers, 61 between
1979-81, and 55 during 1981-83. Steps so far taken include (a) Cabinet agree-
ment to the creation of 61 Guidance/Counselling posts in schools; (b) a fellow-
ship training program for three key Guidance staff presently in operation at
Buffalo University; and (c) discussions with the Universities of Buffalo and
the West Indies to initiate in September 1980 a recognized one year Diploma
Course in Guidance and Counselling at UWI, to train 25 Guidance officers
annually. Graduates of these prograns will be attached in increasing numbers
to secondary institutions, and ultimately to groups of primary schools.
2.20      The imminent full operation of the San Fernando Technical Institute
and the gradual phasing out of lower level craft training courses at this and
the John S. Donaldson Institute in favor of higher level courses, should pro-
vide appropriate conditions to service substantially the technical/vocational
training needs of the country, both formal and nonformal. The redistribution
of secondary school enrollments, existing pre-technician courses and the pro-
posed introduction of craft courses in senior secondary schools should provide
industry and the training institutions with substantial numbers of secondary
school graduates attitudinally and pre-vocationally equipped for absorption
into industry and/or further training. It is further intended to make extensive
use of the facilities at secondary schools throughout the country for formal
and nonformal adult education, for extension services, and for community par-
ticipatory activities.
C. Education Finance and External Aid
2.21      In the past four years total public education expenditures ranged
from 4.5% to 5.0% of GNP (Table 8). In 1977, expenditures for education
amounted to 14.1% of the total government budget, comprising 19.7% of the
recurrent budget and 7.1% of the capital budget. The relatively low capital
expenditures are a result of constraints in the implementation mechanism,
which prevent the Ministry of Education from fully realizing its ambitious
development program. The amounts provided in the capital budget estimates
are normally lower than the amounts requested, not because of overall budget
constraints, but to take into account the implementation constraints. In real
terms capital expenditures increased by an annual 6.4% in the 1976-78 period.
The major investment has taken place at the secondary level (expansion of
places and introduction of craft courses).



- 9 -
2.22      Recurrent expenditures per student were US$230 1/ in primary and
US$390 1/ in secondary education in 1977.  At the primary level, salaries
account for 94% and at the secondary level for 80%. This leaves at the pri-
mary level relatively little for materials and maintenance.  The average
student-teacher ratios of 28:1 in primary, 29:1 in junior secondary, and 21:1
in senior secondary schools are reasonable (paras 2.03, 2.04).  The planned
elimination of senior primary classes in primary schools could produce some
temporary overstaffing; however, the proposed retraining of surplus primary
teachers for service in the secondary schools would enable the present ratios
to be retained, or improved.  Further economies will be achieved when the
present costly teacher training system - in-service training on full pay for
unqualified teachers after a minimum of two years teaching service - is
replaced by pre-service training. The introduction of craft courses at the
secondary level will eventually increase recurrent costs. The proposed
expansion of the school feeding program (free school meals for all primary
and secondary students) will have a major impact on recurrent costs (about
TT$162.0 million, or US$67.5 million per year, which represents an increase
of 65% over the 1977 recurrent budget).
2.23      The proposed project includes the required capital investment for
a government-supportive program to replace dilapidated primary schools,
improve access to junior secondary schools, expand the educational offering of
a group of senior/composite secondary schools by the introduction of craft
courses, and improve the quality of teacher education and teaching support
services. Project costs will represent about 25% of planned public investments
in the education sector in the period 1980-83. The Ministry of Finance and
Planning is allocating the necessary counterpart funds for the proposed
project in its investment plan.
2.24      External aid through bilateral and multilateral agencies has been
a significant factor in the development in recent years of the education
sector in Trinidad and Tobago. The major source of external assistance at
present is the World Bank; a first Bank loan of US$9.2 million (Loan No. 564-
TR) was made in October 16, 1968, and a second Bank loan of US$9.3 million
(Loan No. 862-TR) in October 25, 1972 (para 2.35). IDB approved in 1972 a
US$9.4 million loan for the construction and equipping of 12 vocational schools
and an expansion of the John S. Donaldson Technical Institute. Consequent upon
a government policy decision against separate vocational schools, and the
integration of these courses within the Comprehensive Schools, only the one
school then under construction, redesigned as a comprehensive School, and the
extension to the John S. Donaldson Institute, were built. The remaining part
of the loan (US$7.6 million) was cancelled in 1976. IDB is now providing
non-reimbursable technical assistance (US$350,000) to the Ministry of Education
and Culture Planning Unit. About five experts would assist the unit mainly in
education planning, curriculum development and teacher training. A European
Economic Community technical assistance program is providing experts for
1/   Excluding school meal service.
2/   Excluding teachers in training 1,296 in primary and 46 in secondary.



- 10 -
techinical teacher Lraini-g and fellowships for technical teachers.  The total
grant for education amounts to about US$1.0 million for 1979-80. The United
Kingdom provides on a grant basis four experts for the San Fernando Technical
Institute. OAS is affording limited support (equipment, books) in the field
of in-service teaching training and in the establishment of an Institute of
Languages. A regional OAS project for handicapped adults is expected to
start next year. UNDP is providing one expert for the establishment of a
national system of occupational classification and coding.
D. Government Education Development Strategy
National
2.25      Determinants in the planning of education development in Trinidad
and Tobago include the following salient topographic, demographic, socio-
economic and cultural features. Topographically, more than half the country's
area is covered by forests and mountains leading to a habitation pattern of
clusters of relatively densely populated conurbations, which contrast with
small, isolated villages, access to, and intercommunication between which,
are often precarious. In socio-economic terms, there remains a significant
gap between the rich and the underprivileged, a substantial minority of the
population living at near subsistence level, their children often effectively
denied opportunities to benefit fully from the educational process. Culturally,
the multiracial mix of the inhabitants has encouraged the growth of ethnically
distributed population zones, each developing its own infrastructure, includ-
ing the establishment of (sometimes makeshift) schools.
2.26      The above features complicate the planning process in a number of
ways. Firstly, the location and capacity of new schools, especially at primary
level, of necessity are planned primarily to serve local needs rather than in
strict accord with large and more economic models; secondary schools, parti-
cularly the upper cycle, must limit course options, to provide cost-effective
class sizes. Secondly, isolation, in combination with poverty factors, make
imperative the provision of student welfare programs. Thirdly the sensitive
ethnic issue requires increasing government support for the large number of
denominational schools (75% of all primary schools) formerly constructed and
maintained by significant financial contributions by the divers Church author-
ities. The planned expansion of primary and secondary schools is in part
designed to respond to the above features of Trinidadian society and will
materially assist the equity issue.
2.27      The major government sector objectives are:  (i) the equalization
of educational opportunity at least between the ages 5-16 years; (ii) the
reorientation of school curricula to respond to modern educational trends,
the career aspirations of students of a wide range of ability, and the needs
of the labor market; and (iii) the complementary training/retraining of tea-
chers, and the expansion of support systems, to meet these changing criteria.



- 11 -
2.28      In pursuance of these objectives, basic strategies focus upon (a)
a program of construction to rehabilitate both government and government-
assisted (denominational) primary schools where physical conditions militate
against the adoption of new curricula and teaching methodologies; to increase
the number of junior secondary places to the point where universal and auto-
matic promotion to this level of education would be assured (and thus to
eliminate the unsatisfactory primary classes in primary schools, and with
their elimination, the abolition of the Common Entrance Examination (11+);
and to augment provision, and reorient the direction of senior secondary
schools, to provide for automatic access to these institutions (and hence to
abolish the 14+ selective examination procedures), and to emphasize the teach-
ing of vocational skills; (b) a program of teacher education to provide certi-
fication courses for unqualified teachers, professional courses for untrained
graduates and technical teachers, and regular upgrading courses for teachers
unfamiliar with current curricula trends and teaching techniques; and (c) a
curriculum development and support mechanism to expand and institutionalize
curriculum research, development and testing techniques, disseminate findings
to the profession and to support the teaching/learning process by the produc-
tion and distribution of didactic material. The proposed project is designed
to complement the government's efforts to achieve these policy objectives and
its implementation strategy.
2.29      The priority accorded by the government to the elimination of
inequality in, and the qualitative improvement of the primary school system,
not least within the denominational schools, is demonstrated by the recently
created "Primary School Construction and Equipment Fund" (TT$300 million over
15 years), the joint management procedures presently being worked out between
the government and the respective Church authorities, and the newly adopted
school curriculum emphasizing the teaching of science, practical subjects
and aesthetic education within the context of a child-centered approach. The
proposed provision of medico-dental services, and a national school meals pro-
gram, attest to the government's concern for the disadvantaged and impoverished.
The proposed project would support the equity and qualitative improvements
objectives.
2.30      A logical further stage in the solution of the equity objective is
the elimination of the senior primary classes in primary schools through the
expansion of the junior secondary schools system. In this regard the govern-
ment faces the dilemma of a system which is atypical of its general school
policy. The twenty existing junior secondary schools built by 1977 under the
Bank financed first and second education projects (Loans 564-TR and 862-TR)
are the only institutions operating a double shift. The double shift system
is seen by the public as having significant and adverse educational and social
effects; they are popularly viewed as second rate schools, to be chosen as a
last extremity, a situation which has distorted enrollment patterns in these
and the complementary prestigious secondary schools. Against the public out-
cry for early deshifting, a posture supported by the Prime Minister's Working
Party on this issue, the government has decided (a) to extend the existing
junior secondary schools from 720/960 to 1,440 student places and to construct
all new schools of this type on the larger model; and (b) in the longer term
to phase out the double shift system. Notwithstanding this strategy, the



- 12 -
go-vnment concedes that given the high capital costs of deshifting (estimated
cost US$200 million) and the priority status of access to these schools, it
will be necessary to continue the double shift system at least until all
access problems are resolved. In this sense the proposed project, in its
modified form, provides support for the government's priority access objective
at this level of education.
2.31      At senior secondary level, the government has discarded the divisive
principle of separate vocational schools as originally proposed in an IDB
financed project in favor of an integrated comprehensive school system which
will be capable of meeting in cost effective institutions the educational needs
and job aspirations of students of all ability levels within a single school
unit. It has further determined that industry's crucial needs for skilled
and semi-skilled manpower require a redistribution of enrollment patterns in
the upper secondary schools to attract more students into pretechnician and
craft courses. To this end it (a) has recently built nine comprehensive
schools, each incorporating craft facilities as well as the now standard pre-
technician course facilities; (b) proposes to extend existing senior secondary
schools and to redistribute enrollment patterns so that some 75% of all
students in Forms IV and V will be studying one or other of the practical
options. It should be noted that curricula for the practical courses have
been carefully constructed to include an acceptable balance between general
and technical education; with respect to the craft courses, however, the
practical content is perhaps excessively craft-specific. The government is
aware that these courses, which it justifies in the short term by a drive to
assist industry to meet its crucial need for skilled and semi-skilled manpower,
may in the longer term require redefinition. To this end it proposes to ini-
tiate, with the possible collaboration of the National Training Board and/or
the National Institute of Higher Education, an evaluation of the relevance, in
educational and employment terms, of the craft courses presently taught in the
existing nine senior comprehensive schools. This study should be coordinated
with the research findings of the specialists to be provided to the National
Training Board under the second education project (Loan No. 862-TR) in the
fields of manpower research, job analysis, and skill training requirements,
relevant curriculum research and evaluation. It is therefore of the first
importance that the government determine the future role of the National
Training Board, vis-a-vis the recently created National Institute of Higher
Education, in the area of technical/vocational training, appoint to the former
institution the staff necessary to complete its establishment, and recruit
the specialists referred to above. The Government provided assurances
that evaluation of the existing craft courses will be undertaken, and submitted
to the Bank for comment, prior to January 1, 1981 and any final determination
regarding the scope and content of these courses in the project schools. In
this connection it is relevant to note (i) that recommended course modifica-
tions which may result from the above mentioned evaluation could readily be
accommodated in the project schools, given the planned flexibility in school
design and enrollment patterns; and (ii) the proposed redistribution of
enrollments in the project school will limit capital and recurrent costs to
the actual number of new student places required, and by the joint use of
existing and new facilities, to craft teaching areas not heretofore provided.
In this version of the government's request document, as modified during
appraisal, the proposed project will support this strategy.



- 13 -
2.32      Central to the qualitative improvement of education is the availabil-
ity of a well prepared teaching force. The adoption of new curricula, the
sound and efficient use of new practical facilities and the methodological
reorientation necessary to deal with an ever widening range of student abili-
ties imply the need for new directions in teacher training, in particular
for trained guidance/counsellors, and an ongoing program of refresher courses.
With the finalization by 1979-80 of the certification programs for unquali-
fied primary school teachers, and the imminent availability of a new Teacher
Training College constructed under the Bank second education project (Loan
862-TR) these facilities will be increasingly used to train and retrain pri-
mary and secondary school teachers in the new curricula; the University of
the West Indies School of Education will shortly increase admissions to its
post graduate teacher training course from 100 to 150 annually and further,
initiate a Diploma course in Guidance and Counselling. These arrangements
should adequately meet the teacher needs for all areas other than the spe-
cialists in technical and vocational education, of which there is currently
a serious dearth. This latter deficit will be met by (a) a program to train
annually between 50-100 technically qualified teachers at the newly completed
Technical Teacher Training Wing of the John S. Donaldson Technical Institute,
constructed under an IDB financed project; and (b) a program to train about
20-30 teachers of agriculture annually at the Eastern Caribbean Institute of
Agriculture and Forestry (ECIAF).
2.33      To provide centralized resource facilities for curriculum research
and development, for continuous, short in-service training courses, seminars
and teacher group meetings, and for the production and distribution on a
national scale of teaching/learning aids, the government proposes the creation
of a National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center (NCTDC), strategically
housed in the capital close to the Valsayn Teacher Training College. The
work of the Center, under its Director and specialist staff, would be closely
associated with relevant activities of the University, the Teacher Training
Colleges, the National Training Board and the Ministry of Education's School
Supervisory staff. The government's long term plans also foreshadow the
construction of satellite regional Teacher Development Centers (TDC) in nodal
points in Trinidad and Tobago; the functions of the satellite Centers will be
more circumscribed, concerning themselves solely with in-service teacher
training programs, and drawing on the resources of the National Center for
advisory and possibly training services. One such Regional Center, to be
located in San Fernando adjacent to the Corinth Teacher Training College, is
scheduled for early construction. The proposed project would support the
programs for the training of guidance counsellors and technical teachers and
the development of a national system of Teacher Development Centers.
Regional
2.34      While the field of education is not the most obvious for a Regional
Development approach, the government of Trinidad and Tobago has long recognized
in practical terms the advantages of such a strategy. Presently the Eastern
Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and Forestry allots some 20% of its places
to extra-national students and has modified its entrance requirements to accom-
modate them; the Dental Nurse Training Program provides for 10 places out of
an annual enrollment of 35, for non Trinidadian students, while the University
of the West Indies is a interregional multi-Campus complex, the Trinidad Campus



- 14 -
reLeiving between 400-450 students annually from other countries. The proposed
project could provide a further impetus to this strategy: the training of tea-
chers of agriculture at ECIAF, and of Guidance Counsellors at UWI, could well
be broadened to include students from other countries, while the National Cur-
riculum and Teacher Development Center could become a focal point for collabo-
rative efforts in these activities and a host Center for regional conferences,
seminars and the like. Joint ventures of this kind, and in the publication/
distribution of teaching/learning material, will become even more practicable
and significant as the new Caribbean Schools Examination Council, presently
in its formative stages, becomes fully operational. Whatever body emerges as
the organization responsible for controlling the new Caribbean Schools Council
examinations, their regional character must perforce require multinational
representation and participation in the affairs of the controlling authority.
i
Bank Lending Strategy
2.35      In March 1967, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago approved the
guidelines of a 15-year Education Development Plan to restructure the education
system, lessen its academic bias and dependence upon foreign standards, and
improve the distribution of educational opportunities. This Plan was expected
to be implemented in three phases: 1968-72, 1973-77 and 1978-83. The Bank's
lending strategy has been to support priority investment programs included in
each phase of this long term education development plan. A first Bank loan of
US$9.2 million (Loan No. 564-TR, of October 16, 1968) was made in support of
the first phase (1968-72) of the Plan, which focussed on junior and comprehen-
sive secondary education and on teacher training for primary and junior second-
ary schools. The project was completed in 1976. The relevant Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 1627) to which was attached the Project Completion
Report, was circulated on June 14, 1977, under Ref. SecM77-503. The first
project was judged generally successful. A major part of the success was
due to the realistic nature of its objectives, the careful preparation of the
plan on which it was based, and the government's commitment to the type of
development supported by the project. The school places provided were fully
utilized, and the planned diversification of curricula took place. The few
problems which arose in regard to procurement of furniture and equipment are
fairly representative of the experience of first education projects in other
countries and have received attention in the formulation of the subsequent
projects. A second Bank loan of US$9.3 million (Loan No. 862-TR, of October
25, 1972) was made in support of the second phase (1973-77) of the Plan which
continued support of the expansion of education opportunities at the junior
and senior secondary levels, implementation of the secondary school teacher
training program, reform of technical education and extension of non-formal
training of farmers. The project is virtually complete except for three
secondary schools which have faced contractor and/or site problems which will
delay completion by about one year to June 1980.
2.36      The recent, favorable economic situation has induced the Government
of Trinidad and Tobago to expedite the implementation of its broader sector
objectives as enunciated in the 1975 revisions to the Education Development
Plan. It has also given the Bank the opportunity to reassess its sector lend-
ing policy towards Trinidad and Tobago. Further involvement by the Bank in
this sector should emphasize, through an effective foreign assistance component,



- 15 -
institution building, equalization of educational opportunity, and relevant
education of high quality. Thus, through the proposed project the Bank would
assist the government's objective to develop an efficient institutional capa-
city for the supervision of all physical aspects of sector development, and
for such qualitative aspects of education as teacher development, curriculum
research and teaching/learning support systems. The physical components of the
proposed project would assist the government to attain its goals to correct
inequalities of educational opportunities at the primary level and improve
access, quality and relevance at the secondary level.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Content
3.01      The proposed project would assist the Government in achieving its
objectives of equalizing educational opportunity within the context of im-
proved and more relevant education, generally at all levels, but more speci-
fically at the primary and secondary levels. The modifications introduced
into the project during appraisal reflect the Government's serious regard
for due economy within sector development, in line with foreseeable financial,
administrative, and construction resources. Thus, the material reduction in
overall content and the redesigning of some components, recognize the need
for a project of more manageable proportions which will produce more cost
effective education better oriented towards the priority needs of the sector.
3.02      More specifically, modifications in project content adopted in
support of this strategy include (a) the provision of about 9,320 student
places in up to 27 replacement denominational primary schools to be located
in the most disadvantaged regions of Trinidad and Tobago, to help solve the
critical equity problem at this level; (b) the elimination of the proposed
extensions to and deshifting of 22 junior secondary schools on the grounds
that this high cost component would, at least temporarily, exacerbate the
crucial problem of access to these schools; (c) the substitution for item (b)
of the construction of two new junior secondary schools each with a capacity
of 1,440 student places, specifically to assist with the problem of access;
(d) the reduction from four to two in the number of composite schools, and
thus from 10 to 8 in the total number of senior/composite secondary schools
to be provided with facilities for craft courses. The redesigning of the
craft extensions, to reflect the Government's proposed redistribution of
enrollments in these schools, and hence, the substantially lower net increase
in total enrollments (as compared with the actual number of students following
these courses), together with the use of both existing and new facilities on
a joint-use basis, will result in savings of 1,436 new student places to be
constructed (1,316 instead of 2,752); and (e) the substitution of day training
courses at ECIAF for teachers of agriculture, in place of the proposed
residential programs, and hence, the elimination of all capital costs for
construction, and a significant reduction in the recurrent costs of training.



- 16 -
3.03      The proposed p--oject thus comprises:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of:
INSTITUTIONS                           CAPACITY
Replace-    Exten-
Type/Grade                  New   ments        sions     Total    Existing  New
(i)   Primary Schools        -      27           -       9,320      9,320      -
(Grades 1-7) /a
%'i4)  Junior Secondary                
Schools (Grades
8-10)                2      -           -        2,880        -     2,880
(iii) Senior Secondary
Schools (Grades
11/12-14) /b         -      -           6        7,812     6,880      932
(iv) Composite Secondary
Schools (Grades      -      -           2        1,600     1,216      384
8-12)
(v)   National Curriculum
and Teacher Devel-
opment Center
Valsayn              1      -           _         n/a       n/a       n/a
(vi) Regional Teacher
Development Center
San Fernando         1      -           -         n/a       n/a       n/a
/a   Including two years of infant education.
/b   Including two-year pre-university courses (grades 13-14).
(b) related technical assistance in the form of 10 man/years of
specialist services and 9.25 man/years of fellowships; and
(c) project management and administration (10 man/years).
Elements of the Project
General Education
(a) (i) Primary Schools
3.04      This project item will consist of the construction, furnishing
and equipping of about 9,320 student places through the replacement of
27 primary schools selected from a list of 85 denominational schools iden-
tified as in urgent need of total replacement because of their precarious



- 17 -
physical condition and their unsuitability for adaptation/extension to permit
the introduction of the new curriculum which has been developed. Other
selection criteria include equity considerations in respect of (a) location;
(b) assistance to the various denominational authorities; and (c) socio-economic
conditions in the communities to be served. Thus, the 15 schools (4,720
student places) already identified are representative of all regions of
Trinidad, but not Tobago; of these, seven are Catholic, two Presbyterian, two
Hindu, one each Muslim, Muslim Baptist, Hindustan Baptist and Anglican. The
remaining twelve schools to be identified (up to 4,600 student places)
will be selected in accordance with the same criteria, special consideration
being given to the inclusion of some schools in Tobago; assurances in this
regard were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
3.05      The project primary schools would represent the first stage of a
national program for the rehabilitation and equalization of the primary school
system. This program would be initiated by the handing over to the Govern-
ment of denominational schools which the respective church authorities are
unable to rebuild and maintain to a standard necessary for relevant and modern
education. These unsuitable and antiquated schools would, therefore, be
replaced by new and modern facilities, and would become joint venture schools
financed entirely from government resources. However, their day-to-day
management would be conducted by Joint Management Boards representative of
community, church and government interests; negotiations between the interested
parties to produce a Model Agreement are now at an advanced stage; the Govern-
ment has provided assurances that the Model Agreement in its final form
will be forwarded to the Bank for comment.
3.06      The design of the primary schools will be functional and economic
in that classrooms will accommodate 40 students per teacher, with multigrade
teaching procedures in the smaller schools. Nonetheless, they will include
facilities, consonant with the new primary curriculum, for practical courses
in basic science and agriculture, handicrafts, health and nutrition education.
Moreover, because of the wider role these schools are expected to play in
each community where they are located, library areas for school project work
and for community use will be provided, as will be a health unit and a school
meals distribution point.
(a) (ii) Junior Secondary Schools
3.07      This project item would support the construction, furnishing and
equipping of two new junior secondary schools with about 2,880 student places
providing a three-year lower secondary course. The locations of these two
schools have yet to be decided by agreement with the Bank, but they will be
sited in areas presently lacking these facilities, and where senior primary
classes in primary schools will be eliminated. Each school will provide
1,440 student places; curricula, basic designs, and equipment and furniture
specifications will be modelled on the smaller existing junior secondary
schools constructed under the two previous Bank financed education projects
(564-TR and 862-TR). Junior secondary schools in Trinidad have always been
operated with due regard for economy; class sizes are 40 for general educa-
tion (85% of timetable loading), and 20 for prevocational courses.



- 18 -
3.08      First year enrollments in the two schools (960) will provide 8% of
the estimated 12,000 student places required by 1983 to eliminate the senior
primary classes in primary schools. The Government's development program to
September 1983 includes the extension to 1,440 student places of the 20
existing junior secondary schools, an accelerated construction program of up
to 10 new schools, and the extension/conversion of existing secondary schools
to resolve the access issue at this level of education. Possible financial
and, more particularly, construction constraints may delay the full implementa-
tion of this ambitious target; the Government has given assurances that
in the context of its proposal to deshift existing junior secondary schools,
it will take all necessary steps to assure, by June 1983, access to this
level of education for all eligible primary school pupils.
(a) (iii & iv) Senior and Composite Secondary Schools
3.09      This project item would comprise the construction, furnishing and
equipping of extensions to six senior secondary schools (grades 11/12-14),
and two composite secondary schools (grades 8-12). As a result of these
extensions, an additional 1,316 student places would be created at these
eight schools (increasing the capacity from 8,096 to 9,412 student places)
and facilities provided for craft courses to support (a) the redistribution
of student enrollments to emphasize pretechnician and vocational work-oriented
education and (b) the Government's objective of automatic access, and uni-
versal secondary education to 16 years of age. While enrollment patterns
will vary in accordance with the location and type of school (senior or com-
posite secondary school, with or without pre-university courses) and with
regional labor market requirements, in general, academic programs will absorb
between 25%-35% of student admissions; 30%-40% will follow craft courses, and
the remaining 25%-45% will be enrolled in pretechnician classes (Table T-5).
3.10      While the total number of new places to be constructed in the eight
project schools stands at a modest 1,316, the planned enrollment redistribu-
tion will effectively provide craft training for about 2,752 students in a
wide variety of industrial, commercial, home economics and agricultural
options, with an annual output of some 1,370 graduates. Cost-effective
education will be assured by (a) joint-use timetabling of existing pretech-
nician and the new craft physical facilities; and (b) teaching groups of 32
students (16 for practical lessons).
3.11      The concept of the craft course in principle responds well to the
needs and realistic job aspirations of the increasing number of less able
students who, under the Government's policy of universal secondary education,
will proceed automatically to these schools. They are distinguished from
the established pretechnician courses, aimed at the more able student likely
to pursue successfully a program leading to an external examination qualifi-
vation (the General Certificate of Education, or the new developing Caribbean
Certificate of Education), by their more practical bias, with appropriate
emphasis (50% of timetable hours) on craft-oriented general education attuned
to the needs of the course and the ability of the students.



- 19 -
3.12      Neither the pretechnician nor the craft course would be terminal,
but each would provide immediate employable skills together with the basis
for ongoing education/training, though through different training media and
with distinctive objectives. The successful graduate of the pretechnician
course would be suitably qualified for (a) admission to the Sixth Form pre-
university course and subsequently to tertiary level courses in science/
technology related programs or (b) for employment as trainee in his specialist
field, with in-plant and/or sandwich type courses leading to the Government's
National Diploma in Technology. Success in the craft courses would lead to
employment as a trainee apprentice in a specific craft (welding, plumbing,
electronics, clerical, etc.) with in-plant training and/or part-time evening/
day release courses for craft certification. Craft graduates would not,
however, be precluded from subsequently upgrading their status to that of
*         technician level.
Teacher Education
(a) (v) National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center (NCTDC) at
Valsayn
3.13      The most pressing needs for the qualitative improvement of educa-
tion in Trinidad and Tobago lie in the areas of teacher education, curriculum
development, and teacher/learning support systems. With respect to teacher
education, the long backlog of unqualified primary teachers and the rapidity
of expansion of the system at all levels since the beginning of the decade,
have conspired to outstrip training or retraining provisions for primary
school teachers unprepared for the new curriculum approach; junior secondary
teachers, whose basic formation is unsuited to the work of these schools;
the large and increasing number of technical/vocational teachers required
in the senior grades of the secondary schools; and a well qualified corps of
guidance counsellors able to service the system at all levels. In regard to
curriculum development, the interconnectedness and interdependence of all
levels of education -- from primary to university -- demand that continuity
and coherence should characterize curricula within and between the various
levels, and should be responsive to the changing needs of society and industry.
Finally, teaching/learning materials and methodologies need to be constantly
updated and made readily available to schools. In order to respond to these
needs, a structured research and development institutional framework is
required. The proposed project would help the Government to develop such an
institutional capacity by the construction, furnishing and equipping of a
National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center (NCTDC) to be located
near the Valsayn Teacher Training College financed under the second education
project (Loan 862-TR of October 1972).
3.14      The NCTDC would consolidate research and development activities at
primary and secondary education levels, and side by side with the recently
created National Institute for Higher Education, founded to integrate parallel
activities at post-secondary and higher education levels, would thus assist
the Government's plan for the rationalization of all educational research
and development programs. It would be constructed, equipped and staffed to
perform three essential functions: (i) curriculum research and development;
(ii) teacher upgrading; and (iii) production and distribution of teaching/
learning materials. Administratively, it would be linked to the Ministry of
Education to whose Director of Supervision Services the Head of the Center



- 20 -
would report. Organizationally, it would consist of the following three
Units:
(a) Curriculum Department. Central to the functions and impact of the
NCTDC in relation to the future direction of primary and secondary education
in Trinidad and Tobago, the Curriculum Department would be responsible for
the continuous assessment of educational inputs and outcomes of the primary
and secondary schools, and for research into, and development of curricula,
teaching method and teaching/learning materials. Serviced by a permanent
staff of about six research officers, each with an assistant, six technical
officers and related office and ancillary staff, and working in close collab-
oration with the Ministry of Education's 23 school supervisors (who would be
relocated to the NCTDC) as well as with other concerned agencies (para 2.33),
the Department, as a resulL of its monitoring activities, would design and
field test new curricula, teaching methodologies and prototype didactic and
evaluation material, prior to their introduction into the school system.
Although principally involved with the formal primary and secondary school
sectors, it is hoped that over time other areas such as pre-primary, adult
and non-formal education would also be serviced.
(b) Teacher Development Department. Designed to complement existing
physical and human resources, and the conventional training courses available
at the adjacent Teacher Training College, its main function would be to con-
duct or host in-service refresher courses for teachers, supervisors, princi-
pals and teacher educators in all aspects of curriculum, teaching methodology,
school organization and administration, evaluation and the like. The Depart-
ment would consist of a few subject specific rooms equipped for demonstration/
display purposes, an information/materials resource area, and a small
auditorium/conference hall. Seminars, conferences, teachers' meetings, as
well as weekend and vacation refresher courses, often based on the findings
of and utilizing materials produced by the Curriculum Development Department,
would be organized or hosted by the Director of the Center and advance notice
of forthcoming activities widely publicized through the Publications Unit and
other media. Both educational agencies and industrial concerns would be
encouraged to make the widest use of the facilities.
(c) Teaching Materials/Production Unit. The existing School Publica-
tions Unit of the Ministry of Education is presently understaffed and inade-
quately housed and equipped to meet the challenge of providing the support
services necessary to a rapidly expanding and changing school system. Relo-
cated within the National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center, it would
be provided with basic equipment and facilities for printing and publication,
storage, and a gradually expanding staff estimated to reach 12 Publications
Officers and assistants, 12 Printing Supervisors and Operators, and about
10 ancillary/office staff.  Among its principal functions would be the pub-
lication and distribution of curriculum material, teachers' guides, students'
manuals, information sheets, etc., designed by the Curriculum Department to
update existing school texts, and specifically to ensure an adequate supply
of teaching material to the schools, and of learning materials to under-
privileged students, in parallel with developments in curriculum development
and teaching methodology.



- 21 -
3.15      Thus, conceived and launched with an appropriate input of technical
assistance (para 3.17), the National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center
would constitute the central government agency for the qualitative improvement
of education at all levels, and in every sphere of activity.
(a) (vi) Regional Teacher Development Center at San Fernando
3.16      The proposed project would assist the Government's objective of
equalizing opportunities for continuous teacher upgrading, and consequentially,
for the qualitative improvement of education by the construction, furnishing
and equipping, of the first of a limited number of Regional Teacher Development
Centers, each of which would serve a specified geographic area. This Center
would be located near the Corinth Teacher Training College at San Fernando,
financed under the first education project (Loan 564-TR) and, like the NCTDC
(para 3.14), would coordinate its activities with and complement the work of
the latter institution. The Regional Center would fulfill only the function
of teacher development described in para 3.14 above, drawing on the resources,
and working in close collaboration with and under the direction of the NCTDC.
It would thus prove the forerunner of a service designed to dispel inequali-
ties in educational opportunities, both for teachers and students, as between
the urban and more remote rural zones of the country.
3.17      The project would additionally assist the qualitative improvement
of teacher education in general and specifically of technical/vocational
and agricultural education by providing technical assistance for these areas.
(b) Technical Assistance
3.18      Specifically, the component provides for 10 man/years of specialist
services (about US$570,000) and 9.25 man/years of fellowships (about US$162,000)
distributed as follows:
(i)  Teacher Development Centers.  About 2.5 man/years of
specialist services for the planning and inauguration of
the NCTDC and the related Regional Teacher Development
Center (about US$142,000); and about 2 man/years of
fellowships for training/upgrading study tours for key
personnel of the Publications Unit of the NCTDC (about
US$35,000);
(ii)  Technical Teacher Training.  About 5.5 man/years of
specialist services for the training of technical teachers
not catered for under the EEC technical assistance program
at the John Donaldson Technical Institute Teacher Training
Wing (about US$314,000); and about 5.75 man/years of fellow-
ships for training and upgrading study/tours for technical
teacher trainers from the same Institute not provided under
the EEC assistance program (about US$101,000);
(iii)  Agricultural Teacher Training.  About one man/year of
specialist services for the establishment of an Agricul-
tural Teacher Training program at the Eastern Caribbean



- 22 -
Institute of Agriculture and Forestry (ECIAF) (about
US$57,000); and about 1.5 man/years of fellowships for
the upgrading of agricultural teacher trainers (about
US$26,000); and
(iv)  Guidance and Counselling.  About one man/year of specialist
services for the development of a Guidance and Counselling
Service within the Ministry of Education (about US$57,000).
3.19      The cost of technical assistance has been calculated for specialists
at US$4,800 per man/month inclusive of all local costs and overheads, and for
fellowships at US$17,500 per man/year. Should any part of the technical assis-
tance funds prove not to be required, the savings may be used in agreement
with the Bank for other project-related purposes. The Government has provided
assurances that all specialists would be selected in consultation with, and
their terms of reference and conditions of service acceptable to the Bank.
Specific proposals for the fellowship program should be submitted to the Bank
for review by December 31, 1979; candidates for these fellowships would be
selected in consultation with the Bank.
Project Management and Administration
3.20      In recognition of existing management, administrative and construc-
tion constraints, and the Government's determination to contract the expertise
necessary for expeditious project implementation, about 10 man/years of pro-
fessional project management services (about US$1,220,000) and related project
administration costs (about US$30,000) are included in the proposed project.
These services are designed to meet not only immediate project-related needs,
but also a major concern of the Government to build into the client Ministry,
through experience gained in the proposed project, an institution-building
mechanism for the management of school construction programs which will remain
as a permanent and beneficial outcome of the project. Furthermore, the pro-
vision of these services will assist the Government's broader concern to
improve the efficiency of the Ministry of Education planning services and
will in this sense complement an IDB technical assistance project designed
to upgrade the expertise of the Education Planning Unit (para 2.24).



- 23 -
IV. COST ESTIMATE, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimate
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$54.6 million as
summarized below. A detailed breakdown of the total cost by project item
and type of expenditure is provided in Table T-6.
TT$ ('OOO)La                      US$ ('000)
Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign       Total
Primary Schools       16,908.1  10,599.7  27,507.8   7,045.0   4,416.5  11,461.5
Junior Secondary
Schools             10,894.3   8,085.8  18,980.1   4,539.3   3,369.1   7,908.4
Senior Secondary
Schools             13,643.9  13,918.1  27,562.0   5,685.0   5,799.2  11,484.2
Composite Secondary
Schools              2,379.1   1,704.9   4,084.0        991.3     710.4   1,701.7
Teacher Development
Centers              3,339.2   2,537.7   5,876.9   1,391.3   1,057.4   2,448.7
Technical Assistance       -      1,756.5   1,756.5        -         731.9      731.9
Project Management &
Administration          14.8   3,066.5   3,081.3          6.2   1,277.7   1,283.9
BASE COST /b    47,179.4  41,669.2  88,848.6  19,658.1  17,362.2  37,020.3
Contingencies
Physical (10%)       4,718.0   4,167.0   8,885.0   1,965.8   1,736.3   3,702.1
Price (34%)         24,910.7   8,454.0  33,364.7  10,379.5   3,522.5  13,902.0
TOTAL COST       76,808.1  54,290.2 131,098.3  32,003.4  22,620.9  54,624.3
ROUNDED TOTAL              -         -          -      32,000    22,600    54,600
/a   US$1 = TT$ 2.40.
lb   Base cost estimate expressed in prices as of July 1979.
4.02      Design criteria, as agreed with the Government, are essentially the
same as those established under the First and Second Education Projects. They
include specific considerations dealing with cost effective planning and
building, siting for maximum climatic benefit, and the use of appropriate
building systems and materials.
4.03      Base costs of civil works are derived from actual recent construc-
tion costs in Trinidad projected to July 1979. Primary school buildings are
costed at US$345 per square meter of gross floor area; secondary school
buildings are costed at US$395 per square meter of gross floor area. Site
works are estimated at 15% of building costs except in some cases where
visits to proposed sites indicated that higher site works costs should be
expected. Construction areas for project components have been established



- 24 -
by mieans of schedules of accommodation developed and agreed to during
appraisal. Furniture costs have been estimated at 12% of building costs;
equipment costs have been estimated for each teaching and administrative
area based on actual costs being experienced in the Second Education Project.
Furniture and equipment imported for the project would be exempt from customs
duties, and have been costed accordingly. Educational specialist services
are estimated at US$4,800 per man/month inclusive of all local costs and
overheads, and fellowships at US$17,500 per man-year. Project management
services (about 10 man/years) are estimated at 5% of civil and site works
costs and assuming that they will be contracted with a private firm.
4.04      Contingency allowances for unforeseen physical factors that might
arise in the course of design and construction, and expected price escalation
during the project implementation period have been added to the base cost.
Physical contingencies average about 10% of the base cost estimate, and price
contingencies which have been estimated separately for the local and foreign
exchange components of the project average about 34% of base cost plus
physical contingencies. Price contingencies for the local component have
been estimated at an annual increase of 20% and for the foreign exchange
components were estimated as follows: civil works (including buildings,
site works, and related professional fees) at 9% annually; furniture and
equipment at 9% the first year, and 8% annually thereafter; technical
assistance at 9% the first year, 8% the second year, and 7% the third and
fourth years. These rates take into account recent increases in the cost of
imported items, which have been higher than average world-wide inflation
rates. Total contingencies amount to approximately US$17.6 million, equal to
about 47.5% of the base cost estimate (Table T-7).
4.05      The total foreign exchange cost of the project has been estimated
at US$22.6 million and represents approximately 41% of total project cost.
Individual foreign exchange components were calculated as follows: construc-
tion (including buildings, site works, and professional fees) 35%, furniture
50%, equipment 95%, and technical assistance 100% (Table T-6).
Financing Plan
4.06      The total capital cost of the project would be met by a Bank loan
of US$20.0 million, with the balance of US$34.6 million to be met with yearly
budgetary contributions by the central government, in accordance with the
following estimated schedule of expenditures (in US$'000):
FY1980   FY1981   FY1982   FY1983   Total
Bank Loan                   3,770    5,470    7,400    3,360    20,000
Government Contribution    4,950    7,670   12,810    9,170    34,600
Total                  8,720   13,140   20,210   12,530    54,600
The Government has given assurances that it would make the necessary budgetary
allocations on a timely basis in order to meet the project's annual require-
ment for counterpart funds.



- 25 -
4.07      Recurrent Costs.  The recurrent costs generated by the project
would amount to approximately US$3.7 million annually (1980 prices). These
recurrent costs represent approximately 1.8% of the recurrent expenditures
of the Ministry of Education projected for 1980, and would, therefore, not
impose undue burden on the Government's financial capability.
Project Implementation
4.08      For the implementation of the first and second education projects
(Loans 564-TR and 862-TR), a Project Unit was established within the Ministry
of Works. The performance of this Unit, particularly in recent years, has
been inconsistent and has depended on the quality of staff appointed by the
Ministry of Works. Moreover, because of its location, the Ministry of
Education has had hardly any influence in exercising control on matters
of direct concern and interest. Thus, it is within the context of the
Ministry of Education's requiring more effective project management organi-
zation and the Government's expressed concern for implementing investment
projects on a timely and cost-effective basis, that the proposed project
will help establish an Educational Projects Implementation Unit (EPIU)
within the Ministry of Education.
4.09      The EPIU would be responsible for implementing the proposed educa-
tion project and it would initially comprise: a Director, Project Architect
(or Engineer), Quantity Surveyor (or Cost Engineer), a Procurement Officer,
and an Accountant, all on full-time appointments, plus the necessary sup-
port and clerical staff. During the project implementation period the EPIU
would be coached, trained and supported by a project management team, the
costs of which would be financed by the project, to ensure the timely and
effective implementation of the project and to help develop the necessary
expertise for the EPIU to become self-sufficient and capable of managing
the Ministry of Education's educational facilities investment programs. The
government has recently approved the establishment of the EPIU as a dependency
of the Ministry of Education. A condition of effectiveness of the Loan
should be the appointment of all key staff of the EPIU, and the selection and
contracting of the project management group, acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      The EPIU would report directly to the Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Education and have the authority to liaise directly with
concerned departments within the Ministry of Education and other agencies
of the Government on all matters related to project implementation. It would
be responsible for, inter alia: arranging for the selection, appointment and
supervision of consultants; preparation of architect's briefs; preparation of
all procurement and contract documents; ensuring timely availability of
school sites and assessing their suitability for construction; monitoring
project implementation and costs; and liaison with the Bank. The project
management team will assume the coaching, training and executive functions as
may be necessary for the EPIU effectively to carry out its responsibilities
during the project implementation period (Annex 3).



- 26 -
4.12      All design work and construction supervision would be performed by
architectural and engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank and commis-
sioned on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A sufficient supply
of qualified consulting firms are available in Trinidad and Tobago. The
EPIU would supervise the work of the consultants to assure that the pre-
scribed standards, project cost parameters and objectives of the project
are being met. With the assistance of consultants, EPIU would determine,
inter alia: (a) educational specifications and space standards or preparing
designs; (b) basic construction standards and building materials to be used;
and (c) unit costs for the project institutions. Technical review committees
will be established with representatives from the concerned departments of
the Ministry of Education.
4.12      A Project Implementation Schedule (Chart C-5) has been prepared
in order to assist the project unit with the overall planning, organization,
and control of project implementation. The schedule was discussed during
negotiations, and mutual agreement reached that it be updated regularly
and used as a project implementation and monitoring tool.
4.13      Sites are required for 12 of the 15 identified replacement primary
schools in the project. At appraisal, nine suitable sites had been selected.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that within six months
of the signing of the Loan Agreement (i) all 12 primary school sites accept-
able to the Bank would be selected and acquired; and (ii) sites acceptable to
the Bank for the additional twelve replacement primary schools in the project
yet to be identified, as well as for the two new junior secondary schools
would be selected. Extensions to the project senior/composite secondary
schools can be carried out on the existing sites except in the case of
Southeast Port of Spain, where additional space is required and for which an
existing government owned vacant marketplace of adequate area could be used.
Sites for both teacher development centers exist and are government owned.
4.14      Maintenance of schools is carried out with reasonable efficiency
by the Ministry of Education (secondary schools) and the Ministry of Works
(primary schools). With the ongoing transfer of responsibility for an
increasing number of primary schools from the country's religious denomina-
tions to the Ministry of Education, the capacity of the school maintenance
programs will require upgrading. During negotiations the Government stated
that it was studying the most effective arrangements for school maintenance,
including the possibility of contracting specialized private firms for this
purpose. It also gave assurances that it would provide adequate annual
budgetary allocations for the maintenance and operation of the project
institutions and that a comprehensive maintenance handbook establishing
procedures would be developed.
Procurement
4.15      Construction, furniture, and equipment contracts would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. It is unlikely, however, that foreign
contractors will submit tenders for civil works, particularly for the



- 27 -
primary schools which, in addition to being relatively small, are located
in remote areas. Therefore, civil works contracts for the primary schools
component will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding satis-
factory to the Bank. Furniture and equipment items would be grouped to form
sizable packages to permit bulk procurement; those that cannot be grouped
into packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of local
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The total cost of furniture and equipment
procured in this manner would not in the aggregate exceed US$450,000 (equiva-
lent to about 5% of the estimated total cost of furniture and equipment).
In the case of procurement under international competitive bidding procedures,
domestic furniture and equipment manufacturers would be accorded preferential
treatment in bid evaluation limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Regional preference
for members of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) would be limited
to 15% of the c.i.f. price of nonregional goods or the difference in tariffs,
whichever is lower.
Disbursements
4.16      Disbursements from the proposed Loan of US$20 million (equivalent
to approximately 37% of the estimated total project cost of US$54.6 million)
would finance about 88% of the estimated foreign exchange component as follows:
(a) 31% of total expenditures for construction (including civil works, site
works, and professional fees); (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported,
or 75% of expenditures for locally procured furniture and equipment; (c) 100%
of total expenditures for project management and administration, technical
assistance and fellowships. The Loan would be disbursed over a period of 4.5
years through December 31, 1983 (Table T-10). In principle, all disbursements
would be fully documented.
V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND EVALUATION
Benefits
5.01      The project is conceived as a two-pronged thrust towards (a) improv-
ing the quality of primary and secondary schooling, with particular emphasis
on equity issues and employment-related education; and (b) institution-
building, in the areas of school facilities planning and project management,
and institutionalized capacities for teacher training and upgrading, curric-
ulum development and teacher/student support systems.
5.02      With regard to the educational aspects of the project, the emphasis
is largely on quality improvement. While the project will benefit the
country in quantitative terms by the provision of some additional 2,880
junior secondary places and 1,316 senior secondary places, qualitatively it
will (a) rehouse 9,320 primary students, many from the more disadvantaged
regions, in modern buildings offering facilities for sound education and
student welfare programs; (b) provide 2,880 (960 new entry places) in recog-
nized junior secondary schools for some 8% of the students presently accom-
modated in overcrowded, unsatisfactory senior primary classes in primary



- 28 -
sch-ls; (c) supporL the  _distribution of (expanded) student enrollments by
complementing existing school facilities in eight composite/senior secondary
schools so as to provide craft courses for 2,752 students; (d) foster the
introduction of professional training for 20-30 teachers of agriculture and
50-100 technical/vocational teachers annually; and (e) initiate new and
complement existing institutionalized arrangements for the continuous develop-
ment of teaching/administrative staff, curriculum research and development,
and the production, publicaLion and distribution of teaching/learning materials.
5.03      In the realm of institution-building, among the most important
benefits deriving from the project is likely to be the development of a
permanent capacity within the Ministry of Education for the planning, manage-
ment, and supervision of the physical requirements of the education sector.
Of like import will be the creation of a national system of teacher training/
retraining and support systems referred to in the previous paragraph.
Risks
5.04      In respect of the expeditious implementation of the physical
aspects of the project, there are two risks. (1) Crucial to the construction
program is the early selection and appointment of the expatriate project
management group, and of their national counterparts to form the Education
Projects Implementation Unit. The Government has given assurances that
the necessary measures will be taken without undue delay; its commitment to
the project is such that it should be able to implement these measures prior
to loan effectiveness. (2) The capacity of the construction industry, which
is already subject to considerable strain, is an issue of importance in
timely project execution. However, the Government has launched a program to
expand local cement production, facilitate the availability of building
materials, and encourage civil works bids from non-national contractors.
These steps, if taken expeditiously, should minimize delays in project
execution.
5.05      Two further risks refer to the qualitative aspects of project
implementation. (1) The timely initiation of teacher education courses will
predetermine the educational benefits likely to accrue from the project. In
this respect (a) the implementation schedule calls for priority construction
of the National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center; (b) the Valsayn
Teacher Training College constructed under the Bank Second Education Project
(Loan 862-TR), should become operational early in 1979 and will be available
for in-service training courses for primary and secondary teachers; (c) the
John Donaldson Technical Institute Teacher Training Wing is already con-
structed, requiring only the appointment of teaching staff and specialist
services; (d) agreement in principle has already been reached between the
Ministries of Education and Agriculture for the training of teachers of
agriculture at the Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and Forestry;
and (e) discussions are proceeding between the Ministry of Health, the
University of the West Indies and Buffalo University for the validation and
inauguration of a Diploma Course in Guidance and Counselling. If these
objectives are vigorously pursued, an adequate supply of well qualified
teachers should be assured. (2) The smooth functioning of the project
primary (originally denominational) schools will call for early agreement



- 29 -
between the competent Church authorities and the Ministry of Education in
respect of joint management mechanisms, curricula criteria and day-to-day
supervision. Joint exploratory meetings have been held; the Catholic autho-
rities and the Ministry of Education are currently discussing unresolved
issues. There is need for a Model Agreement to be subscribed by the in-
terested parties and for accord to be reached with the other sectarian
authorities with a view to its adoption as a general instrument of policy.
However, no undue delay in reaching accord on these matters is anticipated,
the more so since most sites and all capital and recurrent costs of these
schools will be met exclusively by the Government.
5.06      The Bank's experience with diversified education has been mixed.
Of the 79 projects with diversification of secondary education components,
20 have been completed.  The successful cases had in common the following
characteristics: (a) acceptance of the new mode by administrators, teachers
and parents; (b) strong administration; (c) an adequate supply of science and
practical subject teachers. It is expected that in Trinidad and Tobago, these
conditions will be present.
Evaluation
5.07      As part of the regular reporting procedures, the Government should
undertake to keep the Bank informed of sector advances towards the realiza-
tion of targeted goals, and to provide annually for Bank review a statement
of any major policy reformulation. More specifically, through its competent
agencies, the Ministry of Education should periodically review with the Bank
the outcome of (a) its guidance and counselling training programs, and
(b) curriculum development, teacher/student support systems, and publications
unit activities. Finally, within six months of the closing date of the Loan
Account, the Government should furnish the Bank with a detailed, preliminary
evaluation of project outcomes, including experiences gained during
implementation.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the location of the twelve primary schools remaining
to be identified would be determined in accordance with
initially agreed criteria, special consideration to be given
to the inclusion of some schools in Tobago (para 3.04);
(b) the Model Agreements for the Joint Management Boards for the
day-to-day management of the project primary schools would
be forwarded to the Bank for comment (para 3.05);
(c) all necessary actions would be taken to assure access to
junior secondary level courses for all eligible primary
school pupils, including the carrying out of a program
satisfactory to the Bank assuring such access, and would
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose (para 3.08);



-- 30 -
(d) all specialists would be selected in consultation with, and
on terms of reference and conditions of service acceptable
to the Bank, and the fellowship program would be submitted
for Bank review by December 31, 1979, and candidates for
these fellowships selected in consultation with the Bank
(para 3.19);
(e) adequate and timely budgetary allocations would be made to
meet the project's annual requirements for counterpart funds
(para 4.06);
(f) all architectural and engineering consultants would be accept-
able to the Bank and commissioned on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.11);
(g) within six months of loan signing, action satisfactory to
the Bank will be taken in regard to:
(i) the revision of curricula and the organization of in-
service training courses for primary and secondary
teachers at the Valsayn and Corinth Teacher Training
Colleges (para 2.32);
(ii) agreements to be subscribed between the Ministry of
Education and (a) the Ministry of Agriculture for the
use of the Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture
and Forestry for the professional training of about
20 teachers of agriculture annually; (b) the divers
Church authorities for the joint management of the
project primary schools; and (c) the University of
the West Indies for the establishment of Diploma
courses in Guidance and Counselling (para 5.05);
(iii) the establishment of teaching/administrative posts, and
the selection and appointment of staff to organize and
conduct in-service training courses for 50-100 technical/
vocational teachers annually at the John S. Donaldson
Technical Institute Teacher Training Wing (para 5.05);
(h)  within six months of loan signing, the Ministry of Education
would establish formal procedures between the Education
Projects Implementation Unit and the relevant departments of
the Ministry of Education for the continuous review of archi-
tectural designs, and furniture and equipment lists, to ensure
they meet the educational objectives and criteria of the
project (para 4.10);
(i) a project implementation schedule would be prepared and used
as a project implementation and monitoring tool (para 4.12);



- 31 -
(j) within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement: sites
acceptable to the Bank for the 12 primary schools initially
identified, and for the S.E. Port of Spain secondary school
extension, would be selected and acquired; and sites accept-
able to the Bank for the additional twelve primary schools,
as well as for the two junior secondary schools, would be
selected (para 4.13);
(k) provision of adequate funds for the maintenance and operation
of the project institutions would be made available (para 4.14);
(1) prior to January 1, 1981, a study of the results of the craft
courses presently being offered in senior secondary schools
would be furnished to the Bank for review, together with any
proposed modifications to these courses, as may be deemed
necessary, in the project institutions (para 2.31);
(m) the Bank would be kept informed of sector advances towards the
realization of targeted goals, specifically in respect of:
guidance counselling; teacher education; curriculum research; and
student/teacher support systems components of the project, as well
as of major sector policy developments (para 5.07); and
(n) a preliminary project completion report would be furnished to
the Bank by the Government within six months of the closing
of the Loan Account (para 5.07).
6.02      As conditions for Loan Effectiveness, the Government will submit
evidence that action satisfactory to the Bank has been taken in regard to:
(a) the appointment of key local counterpart staff, acceptable
to the Bank to constitute the nucleus of the Education
Projects Implementation Unit (para 4.09);
(b) the selection and appointment of a project management team,
acceptable to the Bank, to provide specialist services to the
Education Projects Implementation Unit (para 4.09).
6.03      Subject to the conditions described in paras 6.01 and 6.02 above,
the project constitutes a suitable basis for a loan of US$20.0 million
to the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for a period of 15 years including
3 years of grace.
May 21, 1979



- 32 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                              ANNEX 1
Table T-1
Comparative Education Indicators                                                            Page 1 of 2
(May 1, 1979)
GNP/   % GNP   :  TOTAL;%  OF PUBLIC                      :              PRI. :AV.PRI.                      :    SEC
:CAPITA: OEVOTED:PUJBLIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
:AT     TO EDU. :  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY          :ENROLL:TION        :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:OENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (P'UBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   :RELATION  :FROM PRI. :RATIO  :PER   :RATIO  
POP. :PRICES: EXP.           TO           TO:        (V. OF    MET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO G.NP/ :TO SEC.           NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS .  (US$): ONLY)      EDU. 'PSI. SEC. HI. ADULTS): (V)  :CYCLE(%):ER      CAPITA   :  (5                        () :ER          M(.
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA          74    7.SF 4.870F       5.3Y    8.5EY  24Y  SIY  ISY   99           g6        920       260      2.00       990       SID      ISO    16.85Y
CANADA           75  22.8  7.135         7.3    16.7      30   37   20       RB       99       97      - 1        2.0        99        s0       18     10.00
GERMANY F.REP.75  61.8  6.670            5.0    10.2      31EY 64.- 26EY  99          90       99        23EY      . ..      99Y       84Y      22C    20.26Y
'JAPAN           75 111.6  4,450         4.2E  20.7E   4OUY 37UY IIUY  99            990       99C       25       2.08       99C       9RIT    20C    24.49Y
NETHE RLANDS    75   13.7  5,425         9.4    22.40    21   39   25        99       95       95        29       2.0        97        60       20     12.00
NEW ZEALA ND    73    3.iF 4.280F         .2     .        39   24   29       99       98       9         26        ..        9         67       19     24.00
NORWA            76   4.0s .043          7.2    14.4      54   24    15      9   9             99        l6        1.5         E       62       I      110
SWEDEN           76   8.2  8.150         6.6    14.0      23   29    12      go       99       99        i6s       .         907       85C      13     30.OOC
U.K.             75  56.0  3.780         7.1    13.9      29   41    18    99         89       ...       24        2.0        ...      66       17     21.OOX1
U.S.A.           76 214.6  7.950         5.4    19.8    .. .   72-A 29       99E      89       99        22        .-.       99        93       19     24.00
EUROPE
GREECE           76 9.    2.590          2.6    10.4      37   26   2)       866      99       620       31      2.0         7OE       s0       27     15.00
IRLAND         74   3.IF 2 390F        5.1   13.90    43Y  41Y   14Y   98          bOSXY     996       35       ...        95A       65115    19     tS.47Y
PORTUGAL         77   9.7   i.850        3.6    15.4      41   21    is      TOG       63      60-       19      2.0         75.       35       12      5.00
ROMANIA          75  21.2    .240        4.0     6.4      36    19   13      98       10o11    . ..      21       . ..       98        49       22     10.00
SPAIN            743.F 2TF               2.6 15.2A    49Y  22Y   1ST    944A          ISY      .         35A     . ..         . ..     TRxy    30      17.68Y
AFRICA
ALGERIA          77   16.      9900      7.5    14.3FY  42    ...  21        35       768X     45        39       4.0        55        2611     13      6.00
BENIN            74    3.IF    130F      7.2N  3G.OY    470  230   100    110         44XY     706       53y     25.06       438       11XY   3983    0.74Y
BOTSWANA         76   0.7      410       4.0    19.2      53   20    14       3       72X1     95        32       3.0        60         I2      22      0.30
BURUNDI          74   3.7F    IIOF       2.5    19.90    47R  418   12R    10        2011      307       38       10.0        I4        211    ls        1.0
CAMEROON         76    7.7     314       3.7    21.9      33   43   20                s0       45        52      4.0         2.0        90      24     0O9OCY
C.AR.            74    18F    220F       3.00   I7.00    566   19  ... ..            79XY5    25         69Y      .. .        i8        8EV    278Y   0.21Y
CHAD             75    4.0     120       3.0    10.0      78   22   . ..     Is       29X18Y   30        658Y    15.0          a        2XBV   30       0.0IBY
CONGOIBl)        74    I.3F    SlOF      6.0    19.3      40   32   21       507    133X1      63        63       6.0        48        331      22      3.40
EGYPT            76  38.2      310       5.9N    ..-.    30   32   25        44       76       80        31        ...       79        45       20      12.00
ETHIOPIA        77  29.0       100       2.4    12.5    44      31    14     10       26       . .       so5       ...       63         8       38      ..
GABON            74   O.5F 2.540F        5.00  20.60    260    90   lID    ...    bOOY         25C       46C      9.0         164      31Y      21C     0.29Y
GAM4BIA          76   0.5      ITO       3.3    11.5      46   25      6     10       27       90        33      .. .        92        13       25        ..
GHANA            74   9.9F    590F       . ..   19.TY   43Y  22Y  20Y0 -..            621       2         0 ...              146        511Y628V        lOS
GUINEA           76   4.7       IBOF     4.3N0  . ..      30   31   30       ..       30X      64        45        12F       66         13X     26      4.00
IVORY COAST    76   7.0        6I0       6.6    23.1      33   46    13       96     50        86        43      7.0         47        ITRY    26       1.64Y
KENYA            76   13.8     240       9.9    26.0      67   23    10      40       60?      607       34       6.0        30        16       27       1.0
LESOTHO          75    1.2     100      12.OP  23.0       49    16   20      40      695       50~   53           7.ON       61.       10       26      1.00
LIBERIA         75    1.9      410       2.4    13.2      27    IS 20        73      98        ..        35       2.0         ...      12       26      1.10AY
MADAGASCAR       77   9.0      240       4.0    24.0      53   28    19      50       90       33        44       6.0        38        14       23       1.70
MALAWI           77   5.6      140       2.2     9.3      40    17   22      25       9611     21        61       5.0          9        5X      21      0.47
MALI             75   5.7F      SOP      4.2M  33.OF    4SF  37F   1SF    lOp         22XF     . ..      48F     9S5F        SOF        6X      21        ..
MAURITANIA       71    1.3F    32DF      4.IY  20.OY........                 IA       1711Y    . ..      224A       .         ...       3115   24A      ..
MAURITIUS        76   O.9L.   680        4.7    12.1      50   26      6     SOC      94       99        24       4.5          90      45       32       1.50
MOROCCO          76   18.2     520       6.3    15.2      398  488   126    28        6511     33        40        ...       33         17X1    22      4.00
NIGERIA          74  75.OF    340F       4.10Y 24.2DY  23Y   16Y  42Y    ...          49XY      ...      340Y      ..         ...      10115   20CY    0.48Y
RWANDA           73   4.1F   lOOF        3. 2C  26.00  .   .... ..23                  52       ...       51        ..         ..        2       13      0.23CY
SENEGAL          77   9.2      420       9.0    23.0      46   34    20      tO       32       . ..      49      10.0        20        10       21      1.5
SIERRA LEONE  73   3.OF    200F          3.4    23.4      31   38    30      15a 7    34X1     45        32       4.08       66        131      21      0.53BY
SOMALIA          75    3.2     110       3.70   10.80    49Q   160  190    50?       2411      86        25      10.0        60         3       Is9     0.10
SUDAN            76   15.9     290       4.5    19.9      48   36    16      20       34       74        33       3.6        33        14       24        i.24
SWAZILAND        75   0.9      470       3.6      ---     363   31    19     90       73       71        38       3.8        SI        24       22      1.00
TANZANIA         75   15.1      8        6.6    17.4      42   21    12      60      9311      SI        49       6.          5         411    19       0.34
TUISIA         73   5.6F    730F       6.3    23.4      37   43      a1     5       72       8         41       60         31         4       21      20
UGANDA           75   11.6     230       3.40Y IS.7DY  34EY 40EY 22EY  25A            5311 Y     .       34EY      .. .       14A       SXCY  216       0.56Y
UPPER VOLTA    77    9.8        118      3.4    23.9      31    16   323      SC      13       23        S1      24.0         19        3       25       1.0
ZAIRE            76  25.6      140       6.0    22.0      49   26   25       IS3     661       44        4221     2.0        41        1311    27       1.0011
ZAMBIA           76   5.)      440       6.8    15.9      54   22   22       39       97X1     80        49       7.0        21        is       23      1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BARBADOS         76   0.2   1.620        8.1    22.1      43   31    16    99        10611     99        21        3.0       99        9411     IT
COSTA RICA       75   2.0      960       5.28  22.78    576   258   128   890    109115        656       298      3.06       586       52XY 25           ...IS
CUa7                  9.5  9.500        8.0    11.0  .. ..... 96o                   98        98        22       2.7        98        69       11     I9.00
DOMINICAN REP.72    4.7F    720F         3.0    13.8      43    24   22      51       s0       IT        54       3.00       63        13.9    24       7.00
EL SALVADOR    77   4.1        S70       4.4    27.2      64     8 27        62       Bse      32        39       2.2        41        23       21      7.00
GUATEMALA        73   6.3F    57OF       1.9    16.0      55   23    1 4     47       64       26        35       3.0        69         a       25      4.09Y
HAITI            76   4.7      200       1.0     8.0      61   21    it    206        2SF      13        56U      3.0        62         4       ...      0.7
HONDURAS         75    2.9     3900      4.20   :8.80    620   ISO   19G    93        78       30        35       3.0        68        II       17      4.00
JAMAICA          76    2.1  1. 070       9.9    1.2       37   33 22         86E     91        52        39       4.5        94        64      25       7.58
MEXICO           75  59.9   1.050        3.100  12.000  SlY  265   125    76         li211Y    31        46       3.0        63        351Y    23A      8.97EY
NICARAGUA        74    2.3F    70OF      2.5    14.2      61    13    13     57       6        21        37       2.0        93        17       24      7.00
TRINIDAD A T. 77    1.1   2.380          4.5    IA.1      48   32   20       99       9        9I       28        3.0        49        79      27         ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA          78    9.8     31SF      5.0    17S5F     ....38                      17B      290       24       SF          . ..      48      Iso     ..
BRAZIL           79   07.0   1030        5.0    12.4      42E  20E    378   AA          G6     . ..      27C       . .        . ..     260       5CY    6.006
CHILE            75   10.3     990       3.8RY 12.5RY  23Y  bOY  5OY    . ..   119119          . ..      35Y       . ..       . ..     48X5    . ..   16.95S
COLOMBIA         74  23.6F    580F       3.30Y 21.2DY  44DY 2209  IIY   73           105119    20        339      4.0        90        36XY    14A      6.67Y
ECUADOOR        7S    7.1      590       3.70  27~7C     .-- -_          -69         10211Y    ...       38C      ...        ...       381)'    14C     ..
GUYANA           74   0'.8F     IOF      SI8N   14.70    47   35    14       83A      5211     39        33       6.0         19       62X1    24       1.00
PARA GUAY        74   26F    IBOF        1.    1,1.0      SS    123 22        1       12       26        30        1.9       65        17       12      3.00
PERU             75   15.4     760       4.209 21.70Y  4OlY  22Y   I5V    72         ltIly     38        39DV     3.0        70        48XY    2309   14.41Y
URUGUAY          75   t2.8F 1.300        2.5    15.3      46   34   20       94       9311     . ..      24        . ..      83        ---    10        ..
VENEZUELA        73   12.OF2.28OF        4.6    19.9      300  280  350    77A        SI       . ..      33       2.4         . ..     33       . ..   12.63CY



- 33 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                     ANNEX 1
Table T-1
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                     Page 2 of 2
Comparative Education Indicators
(May 1, 1979)
-- - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - -  - - - - - -  - -     - - - - -----       - -- ---------------
*   GNP/   % GNP  :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                 !  PRI. :AV.PRI.                     :SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTEO:PUBLIC :EDUCATION   :LITER- :PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
*      AT  : TO EDU. :  EXP.   RECURRENT   :ACY    :ENROLL:TION    ODENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
!MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FaR:PER  :RELATION :FROM PR!.:RATIO :PER  :RATIO 
POP. :PRICES: SXP.)       TO           TO:      :(% OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.    M ET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS:  (USS): ONLY)        EDIU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (%   :CYCLE(%):ER        : CAPITA      (%W %    :ER   : M
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3       160G    1.8   11.6    47   19   15    12          29X      69       37       3.00       62       ax    17       1.00
BANGLADESH    73  786SF    SOF    1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   230    Sex              . ..     480      ...       ...      23XD   28       ..
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  i6.OF   930F    3.2   14.0    28   41   22    82             98C      94       40      14.0       84       61C    26    20.OOC
INDIA          75 608.1    140        2-BVY  ...     ... .... 298    65XY               ...      43A      ...       ...      29XY   20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA      76 130.2    240       3.0   11.0    26   32   15    606    79EX    43E            30E      2.0       52E      1SEX   14E    2.00
IRAN           73  33.4F i,560F    3.3   i2.6    506  186  126   50            77       74A      32       5.06      B0A      24      32      4.32CY
IRAQ           75  11.1  i.250       6.7C  16.3DR........   26C    SaXY                 ...      22       ...       ...      3SXY   26C    8.47Y
JORDAN         77   2.1    997       4.5    8.6    25R  509   3R   69          87       Si       32       2.0       91       as      22    79.10
KOREA          78  37.0  1.242        2.6   17.5    35   29   36    93    102X          94       49       2.9       91       60      45     18.00
LEBANON        72   3.2F 1,070F    3.5   18.0    39   40   10    68            86       65       19       2.0       63       26U    25    23.00
MALAYSIA       76  12.6    860        6.7   26.0    42   34   15    SOC    95           93       32       3.7       78       48      28      3.00
NEPAL          76  12.6F    11OP      1.1   10.0    29   20   41    19         59       28       31       2.3       64        14     24      0.8
OMAN           72   0.8F 2.300F       i.7N   3.8    96    -   -        20      24X      99       27F      7.0        ...     0.4X    9       ..
PAKISTAN       75  69.2    160        1.6   16.2    45   25   18    21         47X      50       39       2.0       ...      l7X    1a       6.00
PAPUA N.G.    75   2.6    470         5.6   16.1    38   16   24    32         577      73P      31      11.0       90       i2X?   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES   74  42.2F   380F    2.5   14.9    73   15   12    87    104X              ...      34      15.0       ...      46X     .. .   21.00
SINGAPORE      74   2.3F 2,450F    2.7Y   9.2Y   39Y  39Y  17Y   75A   iO9XY    72A              31Y      ...       99A      44XY   24       7.68Y
SYRIA          75   7.4    720        3.6    6.9    39   25   26    53         89       70       35       2.0       92       45      21    12.00
THAILAND       77  44.1    410        4.OV  20.0   55   30   is    93         83       3 0       35       5.OU      70       28      25      3.00
TURKEY         73  40.2F   90OFP   5.SCY 20.6CY ... .. .....    SSY                     ...      34Y      ...       ...      24Y    270Y   5.83Y
YEMEN          73   5.9F   200P    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10            ISX      l8       36       5.0       75        2X    I9       0.05BY
YEMEN P.O.R.  76   1.7    280         6.6     ...    57   28    8    20        89X      48       30       5.0       94       21X    24       0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMB3ER OF COUNTRIES:                 94    90      a8   88   85    87        95       74       95         68      77       94      91       84
RANGE:                            (0.5-  (3.8-  (25- (5-  (2-   (3-    (14-    (13-    (19-             (1.9-   (7-       (.4-   (9-       (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   981    i33X)   99)    69)    25.0O )   99)               80  )  39)   23.0)
OUARTILES:UPPER                    5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73          94       76       46         7       83       36      25      7.0
MEDIAN:                 3.9   16.3    45   23   16    50          78       55       36         4       63       17      23      2.3
LOWER :                 3.0   12.4    38   18   12    20          53       30       32         3       43        9      20       .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE              A-1970 OR BEFORE           M-CURRENT PRICES                       SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE B-1971                         N-GOP----
7  QUESTIONABLE                   C1i972                     P-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                 COLUWNS:1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
-INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D-1973                        0-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                       OR I890 MISSIONS
COMBINED WITH PRIMARY          E-1974                     R-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY               3 TO 14 18R0 MISSIONS
..UNDER REVIEW                    F-1975                     S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                AND/OR UNESCO)
G-1976                     T-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                 STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                             YEARBOOK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
x-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
--  -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  -- - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OP VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON-SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE
REMAINDES ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE REIN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGREssIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING OUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(W)EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)-PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)"LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUINTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENOITURE IN EDUCATION-(COLS.3.4 AND B) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(S)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7. 12 AND I4) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED PULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUB.JECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ABE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



-34 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                              ANNEX I
Table T-2
TNdRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Prinary Education
Enrollments by Grade and Sex 1965/66-1971/72-1975/76 and 1976/77
Grand Total
Total                                                     Inf. I-
Inf. 1     Inf. 2      Std. I    Std. II      Std. !II      Std. IV      Std. V     Dnf.l - Std.V      Std. VI      Std. VII      Std. VylVII      Std. VII
1965/66       34,918      26,224      26494      24,004       23,670        23.181     28,300         186.791         15.915        9.442          25,367          212,148
Male           18,051     13,255      13,697     12,208       11,945        11,753      13,586         94,495          8,365        5,070          13,395          107,890
Female        16,867      12,969      12,797     11,795       11,725        11,428      14,714         92,296          7,590        4,372          11,962          104,258
1966/67       33,470      26,625      26.845     24,072       22.528        21,431     31,519         186.490         18.414       11.261          29.675          216,165
Male           17,150     13,515      13,641     12,117       11,574        10,765      15,332         94,094          9,540        6,097          15,637          109,731
Female        16,320      13,110      13,204     11,955       10,954        10,666      16,187         92,396          8,874        5,164          14,038          106,
1967/68       32,700      27,416     27,913      24.829       24,369        21.952     30,996         190.,175        18.328       11,643          29.971          220,146
Male           17,191     13,795      14,134     12,516       12,271        11,184      15,294         96,385          9,511        6,187          15,698          112,038
Fe-ale        15,509      13,621      13,779     12,313       12,098        10,768      15,702         93,790          8,817        5,456          14,273          108,063
1968/69       32,695      27,136     27,719      26.828       24.200        22,278     31,184         192,040         18,085       12.202          30,287          222.327
Male           16,906     13,980      14,141     13,604       12,136        11,208      15,129         97,104          9,531        6,570          16,101          113,205
Female        15,789      13,156      13,578     13,224       12,064        11,070      16,055         94,936          8,554        5,632          14,186          109,122
1969/70       33.110      27.360      27.501     26.251       25.145        22,346     32,272         193,985         18,292       12.622          30,914          224.899
Male          17,147      14,047      14,053      13,341      12,680        11,215      15,626         98,109          9,523        6,790          16,313          114,422
Female        15,963      13,313      13,448     12,910       12,465        11,131      16,646         95,876          8,769        5,832          14,601          110,477
1970/71       32.850      27.285     27,733      26,006         25,524      22.955     33,535         195,888         18.819       11.968          30.787          226,675
Male          16,980      13,647      14,228     13,365       12,972        11,587      15,968         98,747         10,005        6,261          16,266          115,013
Female        15,870      13,638      13,505     12,641       12,552        11,368      17,567         97,141          8,814        5,707          14,521          111,662
1971/72       32.263      26.753      27.968     26,882       25.776        24,480     34,938         199,060         16.102        9,972          26.074          225.134
Male          16,600      13,539      14,261     13,727       13,181        12,581      16,580        100,329          8,674        5,462          14,136          114,465
Female        15,603      13,214      13,707     13,155       12,595        12,099      18,358         98,731          7,428        4,510          11,938          110,669
1975/76       25,252      21,367        23,310      21,367    23.310        23.310     33,022         170,9           1.1540        7.770          23,310          194.248
1976/77       25,140      19,589      21.654     21.166       20.409        20,433     32,619         161,010         14.586        9,400          23,986          184,996
/1  About 35% in Government achools.
About 65% in Government Assisted emhoole.
May 1979



- 35 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                            ANNEX 1
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                          Table T-3
Enrollments in Public Secondary Schools (Government and Assisted)
Enrollments by Form and Sex 1965/66 - 1971/72 and 1975/76
FORM I          FORM II          FORM III          FORM IV           FORM V          FORM VI       GRAND TOTAL
1965/66         4.135            3,785             3.814             3.763           4.147            1.133          20,777
Male            1,881            1,706              1,912            1,859           2,273               683          10,314
Female          2,254            2,079              1,902            1,904           1,874              450           10,463
1966/67         5.788            4,984             4.397            4,393            5,024            1.194          25.780
Male            2,801            2,407             2,103             2,332           2,707               711          13,061
Female          2,987            2,577             2,294             2,061           2,317              483           12,719
1967/68         5,218            5,871             4.881            4,515            4,994            1.385          2686
Male            2,704            2,836              2,356            2,187           2,652               760          13,495
Female          2,514            3,035             2,525             2,328           2,342              625          13,369
1968/69         4,908            5,153             5.653             5,047           5.061            1.616          27,438
Male            2,416            2,706              2,778            2,424           2,601               858          13,783
Female          2,492            2,447             2,875             2,623           2,460               758          13,655
1969/70         4.886            4,851             5.096             5 547           5,439            1.808          27 627
Male            2,364            2,517              2,629            2,650           2,757               950          13,867
Female          2,522            2,334             2,467             2,897           2,682               858          13,760
1970/71         4,886            4.851             5,096             5,547           5,439            1,808          27,627
Male            2,364            2,517              2,629            2,650           2,757               950          13,867
Female          2,522            2,334             2,467             2,897           2,682               858          13,760
1971/72        4,950             4,915             5,164             5.620           5,510            1.828          27,987
Male            2,398            2,377              2,498            2,718           2,666               884          13,541
Female          2,552            2,538             2,666             2,902           2,844               944          14,446
1975/76        12,929           11,366            11,942            19.873          12,744            4.233           73 087
Male            6,255            5,499             5,778             9,725           6,166            2,186           35,609
Female          6,674            5,867             6,164            10,148           6,578            2,047          37,478
May 1979.



- 36 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                            ANNEX I
Tablre T-4Z
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Proposed Distribution of Enrollments in Proiect Senior/composite Secondary Schools Present Capacity and Additional Places Required
A. Primary Schools:
No. of Schools          Trained         Untrained         In Training         Total _
462                 4,477            1,804              1,296            7,577
B. Secondary Schools:
___________          Graduates        _ _                      Non Graduates                       D_D_ _
Type of                                Vice          Teacher   Sub-      Sp. T   Sp. T   Sp. T              A.T     A.T
bo2ol             No.    Principal   Principal        II      Total      III       II       I      T I      II       I       Sub-Total        Total
All-age Govt.      21          21           20         409       450        88      64       37      54      47       -           290           740
All-age.
Assisted           27          27           27         518       572        61      43       18       91     93       -           306           878
Junior
Secondary          20          20           40         145       205       31       49       16     846      74       1          1017          1222*
Senior
Secondary           3           3            3         103       109         7       9       11       8       4       -            39      |    148
Senior
Comprehensive       9           9            9_        388      406         10      18        9      16      21       -            74           480 
Composite           1           1            1          15        17         3       4        -        2      1       _    l       10            27*
TOTALS             81          81          101       1,578    1,759       204      187       91   1,017    240        1         1,736      1  3,495
* Incomplete data.
NOTES: Explanation of symbols,
Teacher II Graduate (trained or untrained)
Sp. T  III (Special Teacher III) Incomplete or unacceptable degree
Sp. T  II  Basic primary teacher training plus additional specialist courses
Sp. T  I   Technical Certificate
T  I   Primary teacher training
A. T  III  (Assistant Teacher III) Advanced level secondary certificate, no teacher training
A. T  II   Ordinary level secondary certificate, no teacher training
A. T   I   Limited ordinary level secondary certificate, no teacher training
T  II   Technical certificate plus primary teacher training
May 1979.



- 37 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                              ANNEX I
Table T-5
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Proposed Distribution of Enroll-ents in Project Senior/Composite Secondary Schools: Present Capacity and Additional Places Required
LEVELS AND TYPE OF COURSE
JSS                                         SENIOR SECONiDARY           .                               TOTALS               GRAND
SCHOOL                                      ACAD          TECH            CRAFT         ARTS         SCIENCE                                           TOTAL    PRESENT
_____           I      II     III       IV      V     IV      V      IV     V      VI     VI      VI      VI       JSS     ACAD   TECH   CRAFT                CAPACITY
1/
St. Augustine         _       _       -      160    160   288    288   224    224    50          50      60     60        -       540      576    448    1564        1400
I/
Sargre Grande         _       _       -      160    160   288    288   224    224    50          50      60     60        -       540      576    448    1564        1240
1/
Point Fortin          _       _       -      160    160   288    288   224    224    50          50      60     60        -       540      576    448    1564        1260
1/
S1E.  Port of         _       _       -      128    128   192    192   224    224    50          50      60     60        -       476      364    448    1308        1260
Spain 2/
1/
Signal Hill           _       _       -        96     96   128    128   192    192    25         25      60     60        -       362/   256    384    1002           960
Rio Claro             _               -        64     64    96      96   160    160    25        25      60     60        -       298      192    320      810        760
Torc                   160   160    160        32     32    64      64    64       64    -       -       -       -       480       64      128    128      800        608
Tabaquite              160   160    160        32     32    64      64    64       64    -       -       -      -        480       64      128    128      800        608
TOTALS:           320    2               832    832  1408   1408  1376   1376   250    230    360    360             960    2884    2816   2752    9412          8096 3 /
1/ Inclodes 6th Forn, (Grades 13-14) enrollnents. Distribution of enrsll,nents in Forms IV and V
(Grades 11-12) are as follows:                                                                           Academic courses              1784 (247.)
Technical courses            2816 (38%)
Craft courses                2752 (38%)
Totals:      7352 1Q07.
2/ Present enrollment includes 610 junior secondary students (to be phased out).
3/ Additional student places required: 1316
Moy 1979



T.                                             I.f~~~~~RIIDI21 084  ...                                                                                         INE-N- IT
T11:11. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 21841 
T 2N              2NO.                                                     PON0..2INT.I.T..hTI32I                                                                              81$                  084
Il     4,610             N~~~~~~~,666.0         8,49.0               46INI.              II.016. 6                3                                                '1 TI>1411.0
6.. 0100.                   2              8,880            lI.1T2.l               1,161~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T4.6 21.           2.                2 016>                  -                                   ITO                 65730C
-02010,  102- .1,,  TO,.-                                                184            2,611.                   4012.1             10.. ?              114.0                TINT                                 -                40101. 101 
h-60.  -T62--..T--                                                                    266440.                                      6.                  6.                   7.  -                                                1 4N4LT              '.N 
SUTTLF-       1NON                                                                      10040,2.                                   ,044214.1                              10111. 4                                                 400NT.O
6  12.11.8 RD01.IIOT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
-  -                             162.4           246.1                TTT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~309 2  23I 
COIONT.10101.111                                                                               -4                                                           2                                     NO.8              -                116.2
1.  PNI6'16 28022,61.0,6 ,ood 4006T2.No.180N ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~ ~~2                                                                          ':'6. 
P~~~~~o$.o6 61,61                                                 -                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8   -3404  -.                                                           202.1% 1.
T..-  . - T0280N -INTOI26.                                                                     -                                        -               4 -                      -             3,41941               ,-.400.2)                             4.283
201221.1 0N111122N11.2                                                             6,~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~~~~~~~~~12.07:1  3T214.N  1,0.1171646,281.0410.
30%                                    141                   ..I                      III101I
M  NTQTA                                                                                                   O2TN9.2                                 6,020.2             12,10.7         1.44>T? T64 22,0.1
TTS2.4. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~122                                                                  0                   1.111341                                                                      12
001-42, 260-0                      790122118410                                                                                                                                 7,1.010'4IL08N1,2.
10.g    N6,,,9NO.702182310.                                                                                                                                                    31011,   141.1 



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                                     Table T-7
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingency Allowances /a
(TT$ '000)
Tech. Assistance
Construction             Furniture                   Equipment         and Fellowships                 Total
Local       Foreign      Local       Foreign        Local      Foreign      Local    Foreign       Local       Foreign       Grand
(65%)        (35%)       (50%)        (50%)          (5%)       (95%)        (0)       (100%)      (53%)        (47%)        Total
Total Project Base Cost  -        43,724.5   23,544.0    2,904.6    2,904.6           550.3    10,454.9         0       4,765.7    47,179.4   41,669.2         88,848.6
Physical Contingencies             4,372.5    2,354.4         290.5       290.5        55.0      1,045.5        0         476.6       4,718.0    4,167.0        8,885.0
(=)                                  (10)        (10)         (10)        (10)         (10)        (10)         0          (10)         (10)        (10)           (10)
Sb-Total                         48,097.0   25,898.4    3,195.1    3,195.1           605.3    11,500.4         0       5,242.3    51,897.4   45,836.2         97,733.6
Price Contingencies               23,086.6    5,179.7    1,533.6          575.1       290.5      2,070.1        0         629.1    24,910.7    8,454.0         33,364.7
(%)                                  (48)        (20)         (48)        (18)         (48)        (18)         0          (12)         (48)       (18.4)       (34.1)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                71,183.6                 4,728.7      3,770.2       895.8   _136570.5          07                  76 808 1   54.290.2    131 098.3
US$ (000)                          -          -            -            -            -           -                               32,003.4   22,620. 9       54,624.3
/a US$1 = TT$2.40
/b Expressed in prices as of July 1979.
May 1979.



- 40 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                             ANNEX I
Table T-8
TBIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Expenditures in Education
(in TT$ Nillions)
1/                               1/                                2/                               2/
1976                             1977                              1978                              1979
Recurrent   Capital    Total   Recurrent   Capital    Total   Recurrent   Capital    Total   Reaurrent   Capital   Total
3/
A. Ministry of Education        185.3       83.5       268.8      251.0       72.3       323.3      434.8       119.5      554.3      460.4      139.4      599.8
B. Others                        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
C.                TOTAL         185.3       83.5       268.8      251.0       72.3       323.3      434.8       119.5      554.3      460.4      139.4      599.8
A   as % of Public Sector         19.1        7.7        13.1       19.7        7.1       14.1       24.6         8.5       17.5        21.1        5.5      12.8
4/                                                                   5/
Expenditures               (968.6) (1 089.8)  (2,058.4) (1,277.1) (1,019.9)  (2,297.0) (1,765.4)  (1,401.5) (3,166.9) (2,184.0)   (2,516.9)  (4,700.9)
A   as % of GNP (at                                      4.5                                4.5                              6.8
market prices)                                  (5,973.6)                         (7,046.5)                        (8,200.0)
1/ Actual
2/ Estimates
3/ Includes Development Program and Education Funds
4/ Only includes actually spent nut of the earmarked funds
5/ Includes Development Funds (about TT$1,200 million) which do not have to be spent completely in this budget year
Sources: Estimates of Expenditure 1976-1979
May 1979



ANNEX 1
- 41 -                              Table T-9
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
Specialists
FY
Total      1980         1981        1982
(in man/months)
1.  Project Management Consultants      120         48           48          24
2.  Technical Teacher Trainers           66         12           36          18
(J. S. Donaldson T.I.)
3.  Teacher Development Centers          30         24           3            3
4. Agricultural Teacher Trainer          12         12           -
5. Specialist in Guidance/Counsel.       12         12           -
TOTAL:      240        108          87           45
Fellowships
Technical Teacher Trainers           69         27          42
Teacher Development Centers          24         12          12
Agricultural Teacher Trainers        18          9           9
111        48           63
May 1979.



ANNEX 1
- 42 -                            Table T-10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
Accumulated    Undisbursed
Fiscal Year    Quarter      Disbursement   Disbursment    Balance
1980              1             -                -            20,000
2            350              350          19,650
3            350              700          19,300
4            570            1,270          18,730
1981              1             570           1,840           18,160
2          1,050            2,890          17,110
3          1,500            4,390          15,610
4          2,080            6,470          13,530
1982              1           1,800            8,270          11,730
2          2,000           10,270           9,730
3          1,370           11,640           8,360
4          1,300           12,940           7,060
1983              1           1,500          14,440            5,560
2          1,500           15,940           4,060
3          1,500           17,440           2,560
4          1,100           18,540           1,460
1984              1             800           19,340             660
2            660           20,000             -
May 1979.



- 43 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                       ANNEX I
Chart C-1
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Ministry of Education and Culture; Administrative Structure
1| :\llOtiAI Iit5llTITt    | |   = _     =      _ N   1N .4                                        KTIALit ADVISOilt Cl 
IIItII£V                                                                                     ISOaYc .
|lHnw 5Dnt"  otitrrAU1    CDIYV YbWXATIOti 5Vyli(i |
*                                                                                         S..p.rvt.or.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O.Pv.
A1 rw-1cit v  ,       1 1  1. I          LD
171..Ad cal    S~..d.   Ear. Alah.....g   CdaInI.tr.Uaa     "I ,aIara-,Lp.               D            CJ     I...,.
E~~~~~~~~5a.tr Oa..ra &                                5anra          rI.nn          .,l r 
trt_ r 5el ool  CO -aFi tihnlSc-- ~ ~ ~     ~      trIot
A.dit.. I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,ca..~. a.ao
NbiX4t.          CD i.P ...... 1.91)                                          Broa.n*
: |cCreated 1978
NOTE: School Supervision:   proposals for the expansion and reorganization of these services are shown in Charts  C-2 and C-3.
May 1979.



- 44 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                          ANNEX 1
Chairt C-2
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart: Guidance Unit (MOEC)
I MINISTER OF EDUCTO 
|PERMANENT SECRETARY 
DIRECTOR OF SCHOOLS SUPERVISION|
|SUPERVlSOR OF|
| GUIDANCE      l
| SENIOR GUIDANCE OFICERS(4) 
Junior Second.        Senior Comp.          Composite Sec.          Youth Camps           Technical           Primary and
Schools               Schools                Schools                                     Schools            Other Second.         PHASE A
Schools       I     1978-80
22 officers           16 officers                    -  2  ffl cers- -                   2 officers          15 Pfipatetic
44 officers           32 officers          4 officers              2 officers            2 officers          20 Perip.             1HAS-83
'A   L  kk         A                                           A        kk    ;r~~~~~~ ~   ~~~~~~~~fficers  1981-83
[              : Additional services planned.
May 1979.



- 45 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                    ANNEX I
Chart C-3
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Proposed Reorganization Chart: Incorporation.of NCTDC Services
Within Directorate of School Supervision (MOEC)
DIRECTOR                                                               DIRECTOR
SCHOOL SUPERVISION                                                     EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
ADMINISTRATAIV                              CURRICULUM
DEVELOPSOT                           P         N                   E      O SDEVELOPMENT
SUPERVISbR                
TEACHER                             SUPERVISOR                    PUBLICATIONS
DEVELOPMENT                          PUBLICATIONS                  EAIAIN
PROGRAMS                                                          EXTENSION SERVICES
BROADCASTING
EVALUATION
New Appointment
Nay 1979.



- 46 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                                ANNEX 1
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                               Chart C-4
Proposed Structure of the Educational and Training System
GRADE 1       2          3    4    5    6        7          8    9    10           11   12          13   14               15    16   17
AGE  5      6          7    8    9    10   11            12   13   14           15   16          17   18                19    20   21          LABOR FORCE
PROF ESSIONALS
SEFANT   PRIMARY   I  JUNIOR   SENIOR  SIXTH FORM            UNIVERSITY   I
|      YSECONDARY                     PRIMARY AND JUNIOR SECONDARY TEACHER
I    TRADE CENTERSTRANIN
l                            ~~ ~~ ~~~~~EIEI-*   T-ECHNICAL TEACHER
l                              ~~~~~~~~TECHNICAL INSTITUTES
LEGEND~7~
0  14+ Selective Examination                  |CIANS
N    General Certificate of Educati- at 'O'Level   P                                     EASTERN CARIBBEAN INSTITUTE
4 General Certificate of Education at 'A' Levelei                                        OF AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY tE.C.I.A.F.) ar n1 ce
M    Diploma                                                                                                                                    W     B   - 2008_
OCraft Certificate                                                                        _     __
ZiAssistant Craft Certificate     
P2 sandwich Cause                                                                      VOCATIONAL TRAINING
In~Plant Training                                                                 r                          ,                                __SKILLEDl
I                                       ~~~~~~WORKERS 
Existing System in Process of Phasing Out    I|                                      FARM SCHOO LSl
L--j,'_                                                                  1  [3 --                           __   
SL '  *I2                                  FARMER TRAINING
L'- r  --       -     _               CENTER (ADULTS)
SEN IOR_ __
:'RIMARY                        r                         E________SEMI SKILLED AND
| YOUTH CAMPS AND                             UNSKI LLED WORKERS
TRADE CENTERS
NOTE: Under the Government's Education Development Plan the Common Entrance l1 1+) and
14+ Examinations will not function as selective techniques after 1983 and 1985 respectively.
MAY 1979                                                                                                                                         World Bank -200B88



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Chart C-5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year        1979              1980               1981               1982               1983
Semester     1        2         1        2        1         2        1         2        1        2
I. EXTENSION SECONDARY SCHOOLS
A.  Civil Works
1. Preliminary Studies
2. Preliminary Designs
3. Final Designs and Tendering
4. Construction
B.  Furniture and Equipment
5. Bid Documents and Bidding           _
6. Manufacture and Delivery
7. Installation
II. REPLACEMENT PRIMARY SCHOOLS
A. Civil Works
1. Preliminary Studies
Phase One
2. Preliminary Designs
3. Final Designs and Tendering
4. Construction
Phase Two
5. Preliminary Designs
6. Final Designs and Tendering
7. Construction
Phase Three
8. Preliminary Designs
9. Final Designs and Tendering
10. Construction                                                                                       -
B.  Furniture and Equipment
11. Bid Documents and Bidding
12. Manufacture and Delivery
13. Installation
Ill. NEW JUNIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS
A. Civil Works
1. Preliminary Studies
2. Preliminary Designs
3. Final Designs and Tendering
4. Construction                                                                                       -
B.  Furniture and Equipment
5. Bid Documents and Bidding
6. Manufacture and Delivery                                                         -                 -
7. Installation
IV. TEACHER DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.
A.  Civil Works
1. Preliminary Studies
2. Preliminary Designs
3. Final Designs and Tendering
4. Construction
B.  Furniture and Equipment
5. Bid Documents and Bidding
6. Manufacture and Delivery
7. Installation
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Development Centers
Technical Teachers
Agricultural Teachers
Guidance/Counselling
VI. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Furniture and Equipment
Project Management Services
World Bank - 20018
May 1979



ANNEX 2
- 48-                    Page  1 of 5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Revised Curriculum for Primary Schools
Subject                                       Periods/Weeks
Language Arts                                             22
Mathematics                                               10
Social Studies                                             5
General/Agricultural Science                               4
Physical Education                                         2
Nutrition Education                                        1
Religious Education                                        5
Creative Arts:                                             6
Literacy Arts
Art/Crafts
Music/Drama/Dance
Total                                          55
Notes:
1.   Teaching periods are of 30 minutes duration.
2.   The school day runs from 8:00 am to 3:15 pm; it includes a
registration period (15 minutes); lunch break (1 hour) and
morning/afternoon recreation breaks of 10 minutes each.
3.   Primary schools operate a 5 day/week program (11 teaching
periods per day).
4.   Class sizes:  40 students per teacher.



ANNEX 2
- 49                     Page  2 of 5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Curriculum for Junior Secondary Schools
Subject                                        Periods/Weeks
English                                                     5
Mathematics                                                 5
General Sccience                                            4
Social Sc;iernce                                            4
Spanish                                                     3
Agriculture                                                 2
Industrial Arts
or
Home EIconomics                                             3
Art and Crafrt                                              2
Music                                                       2
PhysicaL Education                                          2
Religious Education                                         I
Electives                                                   2
Totil                                                 35
Notes:
1.   Teachiag periods are of 45 minutes duration.
2.   The s :hools operate a five day/week program with about 5-1/2
houirs schools per day.
3.   Clsss stzes!  40 students per teacher (20 for practical subjects).



- 50 -                   ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Curricula for Upper Cycle Secondary Courses
A.   ACADEMIC STREAMS
Subject                                        Periods/Weeks
Core             Electives
Langs. M/Sc. Soc. Sc.
English Lang/Lit                       4          4
Mathematics                            4                 1
Social Studies                         4
Spanish                                4          1
General Science                        5
Technology (elective)                  2
Private Study                          1
25
French                                            5
10
Chemistry                                                3
Physics                                                  3
Biology                                                  3
10
History/Geography                                                   6
Economics                                                           4
10
Notes:    35-period week; 45 minutes per period; five-day week.



- 51 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
B.   PRETECHNICAL STREAMS
Subject                                        Periods/Weeks
Core             Electives -
English                                5
Mathematics                            4
Social Studies                         4
Spanish                                4
Science                                5
Private Study                          1
23
ONE of the following:
Business Studies
Home Economics
Creative Arts
Electronics
Construction, Technology
Drafting
Agriculture
Economics                                                          12
Notes:
1.   Number and type of pretechnical courses vary according to size and
location of school.
2.   35-period week; 45 minutes per period; five-day week.
3.   Class sizes:  32 (16 for practical courses).



- 52 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
C.   CRAFT COURSES
Subject                              Periods/Weeks
Indust.   Business    Home Ec.   Agric.
English                          3          4             3         3
Mathematics                       4         4 1/          4         4
Social Studies                   3          3             3         3
Spanish                          3          3             3         3
Integrated Science               3          -             3         6 2/
Private Study                     1         1             1          1
Specialized Craft: 3/
Practical                  12   )                   12        12
Related Theory              3   )                    3         3
Related Drawing/
Drafting                  3          -            3         _
18        20            18        15
Notes:
1/   Accounts.
2/   Agricultural Science.
3/   (a)  Industrial Crafts:  Carpentry, Masonry, Electrical Installations,
Welding, Auto Mechanics, Air Conditioning, Machine Shop, Plumbing.
(b) Business Studies: Office Practice, Commerce, Typing, Accounts.
(c) Home Economics: Food/Nutrition, Garment Construction, Housekeeping
and Management, Beauty Culture.
4/   Number and type of specialized crafts will vary according to location and
size of school. They may be taken in isolation, or in appropriate
combinations.
5/   35-period week; 45 minutes per period; five-day week.
6/   Class sizes:  32 (16 for practical courses).



- 53 -                    ANNEX 3
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Principal Functions of the Project Management Services Team
1.        Design.  Direct architectural and engineering consultants in
developing economical facilities consistent with an approved design program.
Make recommendations related to the building structure, construction methods,
and materials selection.
2.        Information System and Reports.  Prepare for approval and imple-
mentation, communications procedures, forms and report formats so as to
provide timely and coordinated information to all project participants.
3.        Estimating, Forecasting and Cost Control.  Prepare cost estimates
ranging from a preliminary estimate to a definitive estimate, including
estimates of the cost of change orders and extra services. Prepare periodic
reports for cash flow, costs and commitments and trend forecasts of cost
variations based on periodic design reviews. Determine probability factors
for achieving the estimated costs and provide means for establishing necessary
contingency funds.
4.        Planning and Scheduling.  Prepare in cooperation with consultants
and contractors, a project execution plan and schedule integrating all of the
services and construction activities. Review and update the project plan on
a regular basis, incorporating completion date forecasts.
5.        Procurement, Expediting, and Inspection.  Prepare, if applicable,
a procurement procedure for approval and implementation. Prepare lists of
qualified bidders, solicit and evaluate bids, and inspect materials and
equipment at the point of manufacture and during shipping and delivery to
site. When requested, assist the client or other project participant in
purchasing construction materials and equipment.
6.        Contract Administration.  Administer all contracts under its purview,
including the coordination of all construction contracts. Arrange for inspec-
tion of the work for conformance with approved documents, process variation
orders and progress payments, resolve conflicts, and verify materials and
quantities. Make recommendations for contracting procedures and the form and
content of contracts.
7.        Liaison with Public Agencies.  Where applicable, establish and
maintain liaison with appropriate government agencies having jurisdiction
over the project, and work to develop procedures to expedite approval
processes.



- 54 -                   ANNEX 4
Page lof 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Background Reports
1.   Economic Position and Prospects of Trinidad and Tobago (2 Vols),
World Bank, December 19, 1978.
2.   Review of the Economy 1977, Republic of Trinidad and Tobago,
Central Statistical Office, 1977.
3.   Estimates of Expenditures for the Year 1978 (3 Vols), Government
Printery, Trinidad, 1978.
4.   Labour Force by Sex (Publication No. 37), Central Statistical
Office, Trinidad and Tobago, 1978.
B.  Selected Sector Reports
1.   Draft Plan for Educational Development in Trinidad and Tobago,
1968-83, Government Printery, Trinidad, 1974.
2.   Prime Minister's Proposals to Cabinet on Education, Government
Printery, Trinidad, September 18, 1975.
3.   Prime Minister's Further Proposals to Cabinet on Education.
Government Printery, Trinidad, October 2, 1975.
4.   Cabinet Recommendations on the Findings of the Three Working
Parties Set Up to Review (a) The Education Plan (1968-83);
(b) Craft Training and Apprenticeship Schemes; and (c) The
Working of the Shift System, May 1976.
5.   Trinidad and Tobago Education Sector Memorandum, the World Bank,
LCPED, July 12, 1977.
6.   White Paper on National Institute of Higher Education (Research,
Science and Technology), Government Printery, Trinidad, 1977.
C.   Selected Project-Related Reports and Studies
1.   Third Education Development Project:  Loan Request, October 1978.
2.   Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and Forestry, Prospectus,
September 1977.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
D.   Selected Working and Implementation Papers
(Prepared by the World Bank Appraisal Mission)
1.   Demographic Projections 1980 and 1985, Selected School Age Groups.
2.   Educational and Architectural Working Papers - Primary, Junior
Secondary, and Senior Secondary Schools.
3.   Brief Terms of Reference for Specialists and Consultants to be
Contracted from Loan Proceeds (Annex 3).






E  f I  : 5 S r  :    =   =    ;' i    G . r                                   ~~~~~~~~~~I 3 R D 1421
I BAHAMA ISLANDS     A r                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
S_ a 4 <,  CD~~~~~ L} A I I I                                                                                                                                                                                                    6   P    L    Se             aA1. Xt  Xf: 0 I.s_ .
CA  TI     OINICAN P,ERTO RIC
! LA~CIlD       S 0      * ,R,PAIC  -          bIEAPL- 
b.    ~to ,,                                                                                                                 ,c5 - 
.       |   1THE DRAGON'S MS OTHS -A                         p1. Boi.
:E   , /   I , .                 -      I            ~~~~~~H.-L Ids .                                                                                                                                               /.
"S         VE  E ZEL A                                            M VE,AN
R.,d             DoipI              t * ,ondI °   eikT                             T                                  V.
01-11                        ~~~~G-od.                   OF SMI A 
I     T  N LOAD?    N    T O B A
THIRD  EDUCATION  PROJECT tT<ewsocoL-o - 
*   PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                                                                tlC} tH                                        oott    
*   YEACHER DEVEUOPMENT CENTERS                                                                                          I   I               <tg                                                         rX      - ~       -~    f,
*   COMAPOSITE SECONDARY SCHOOLS                                                                                                             
*   SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS                                                                                       CTf3t                                 Y e            l        -     N       T
-   MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                  s,                                                                                               = 2\          gawoP
-      SECONDARY ROADS               I                                                         A I         I I I
st-IA RARROADS ~    ~       C  A 
T+ AIRP      ADO RT      TOBAG
--INTERNATIONAL  ONDARIES                                                                                                                                                                        C
A    PRIMAR   S .O  I  Z   3  4  5  1DS
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M .H  .a.r..dRr<'; AoZ
IIAC41R~~F,}. fE1,OM1                                                        FYobdc T)2EIII     
mpQTE SECONDARSCHOOLoS  Po At Son                                                                                       LreneRg .  '"'.'
LENLOR SECO.DARY SCHOOLS                                                  ckoo, s
MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                            Pt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--rn M
SECONDARY ROAD/Srbu                                                                                               '¼nn f 
RAM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ATE                                                                                                                                                                                                       AR      t.Eo   aoOE



