Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  COPY
Report No. P-206-TR
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR THE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 22, 1979
This doctent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofciWl duies. Its otants may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  -   Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$)
US$1.00                        -   TT$2.40
TT$1.00                        '   US$0.42
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                 =   2,47 acres
I square meter (m2)                10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)       -   0.39 square miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM    -     Caribbean Common Market
ECIAF      -     Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and
Forestry
EEC        -     European Economic Community
EPIU       -     Education Rrojects Implementation Unit
IDB        -     Inter-American Development Bank
MOEC       -     Ministry of Education and Culture
NCTDC      -     National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center
OAS        -     Organization of American States
GOVERNMENT OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO FISCAL YEAR
January - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Amount:                   US$20 million equivalent
Terms:                     15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 7.9% per annum.
Project Description:      The project is designed to continue Bank's support
of the Government's objectives to (i) equalize
educational opportunity, (ii) reorient educational
curricula to meet the needs of the labor market,
and (iii) provide teacher training and expand
support systems, including the strengthening of
project implementation capacity in the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC). The project compo-
nents include (a) construction, equipping and
furnishing of up to 27 primary schools, two
new junior secondary schools, extension of six
senior and two composite secondary schools,
(b) construction, equipping and furnishing of
a National Curriculum and Teacher Development
Center and a Regional Teacher Development Center,
and (c) provision of 10 manyears of specialist
services and 9.25 manyears of fellowships for
teacher development, teacher training and guidance
and counselling and 10 manyears of professional
project management services. The project would
provide (i) improved learning/teaching environ-
ment for 9,320 primary, 2,880 lower-secondary
and 2,752 senior secondary students annually,
(ii) improve access to and provide relevant
work-oriented education at senior secondary
levels, (iii) initiate training courses for
teachers of agriculture and technical and
vocational subjects and for guidance and
counselling staff, (iv) contribute to upgrading
of teachers, curriculum and research development
and the production and distribution of teaching/
learning materials. It would establish a permanent
capacity in MOEC for planning, management and
supervision of physical facilities for educational
development. The project faces risks in three areas,
mainly: (i) delay in the appointment of a project
management team to support and train the local
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
personnel in the project implementation unit,
(ii) the capacity of the construction sector which
is overburdened, and (iii) the agreement to be
reached between denominational authorities and the
Government on joint management of the denominational
schools handed over to Government.
Estimated Cost:
…--- US$ '000          …
Local     Foreign      Total
Primary Schools                       7,045.0    4,416.5   11,461.5
Junior Secondary Schools              4,539.3    3,369.1    7,908.4
Senior Secondary Schools              5,685.0    5.799.2   11,484.2
Composite Secondary Schools             991.3       710.4    1,701.7
Teacher Development Centers           1,391.3    1,057.4    2,448.7
Technical Assistance                        -       731.9       731.9
Project Management and
Administration                          6.2    1,277.7    1,283.9
Base Cost                       19,658.1   17,362.2   37,020.3
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                      1,965.8    1,736.3    3,702.1
Price (34%)                        10,379.5    3,522.5   13,902.0
Total Cost                      32,003.4   22,620.9   54,624.3
Financing Plan:
------- US$ million ------
Bank loan              20.0
Government             34.6
Total                  54.6
Estimated Disbursements:
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
------------ US$ million -----------
Annual                            1.3       5.2     6.5      5.6     1.4
Cumulative                        1.3      6.5    13.0    18.6    20.0
Appraisal Report:          Report No. 2430b-TR dated May 21, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Trinidad and Tobago for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to help
finance an education project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of
Trinidad and Tobago" (2218-TR), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on December 19, 1978. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        The economy of Trinidad and Tobago underwent a radical transformation
during the 1960s and 1970s. Once largely dependent on tropical export agri-
culture, the economy steadily evolved into a modern diversified semi-industrial
stage, while the share of agriculture in GDP shrank to only about 3%. The
discovery and exploitation of petroleum and natural gas some three decades ago
played a vital role in this process. Although Trinidad and Tobago is relatively
poor in these natural resources, accounting for only 15% of GDP as recently as
the late 1960s, they have exerted a disproportionately large influence at the
margin in determining the state of both public finances and the balance of
payments, and thereby the fate of the economy. Thus, while a vigorous petro-
leum sector provided modest surpluses for capital formation in the rest of the
economy throughout the 1960s, a decline in petroleum production between 1968
and 1972 led to a serious deterioration in the public sector finances and the
balance of payments, forcing the Government to resort to substantial domestic
and external borrowing to finance fiscal deficits and bolster declining
foreign exchange reserves.
4.        The discovery of additional petroleum reserves and the quadrupling
of oil prices at the end of 1973 led to a dramatic economic upturn. Between
1973 and 1978, the economy accumulated over US$1.6 billion in foreign exchange
reserves. Since about half of the reserves were accumulated by the Government,
by means of sound fiscal policy, much of the revenue increase was demonetized
and set aside for development purposes. This policy, combined with a more
liberal import regime, contributed to the deceleration of inflation from the
high 1974 level. Trinidad and Tobago's sudden prosperity, however, concealed



- 2 -
underlying weaknesses in the economy resulting from the heavy dependence of
the nonpetroleum sectors on the petroleum surplus and the difficulty of
educating and training its labor force rapidly enough to meet its greatly
altered development needs.
5.        The rapid development of the manufacturing sector was also an
important factor in the structural shift of the Trinidad and Tobago economy.
Since achieving statehood in 1962, the Government has encouraged industrial-
ization through a variety of measures, including generous fiscal incentives,
duty-free access to imported inputs, fully developed industrial estates, con-
cessionary credits, and a policy of extensive quantitative restrictions on
competitive imports. The consequent rapid expansion and diversification of
manufacturing 1/ in the late 1960s and early 1970s was largely responsible for
modest growth of GDP during the period when petroleum production and refining
were on the decline. In the last two years, manufacturing has been the most
dynamic sector, with real growth of 13% and 11% in 1977 and 1978 respectively.
6.        The increasing importance of the petroleum and manufacturing sectors
has been accompanied by stagnation in agricultural production, exacerbated by
rising production costs, inadequate agricultural services and an inefficient
marketing system. High rates of rural to urban migration have led to declines
in the rural labor force, giving rise to the paradox of seasonal labor short-
ages in agriculture, high urban unemployment and under-utilization of land
resources. Sugar, once Trinidad and Tobago's most important export and
accounting for about half the value added in agriculture, has experienced
a steady decline in output in the 1970s. The authorities have attempted to
encourage food production for the domestic market by means of input subsidies
and price support policies, but with the exceptions of poultry, eggs and pork,
have met with little success.
7.        Trinidad and Tobago has experienced economic growth rates averaging
close to 5% during the last four years. During 1974-75, economic growth largely
resulted from rapid expansion in petroleum production, as refining output de-
clined and the nonpetroleum sectors grew only marginally. More recently, the
manufacturing, construction and services sectors have also expanded vigorously.
In 1978, estimated real growth of slightly over 5% resulted almost entirely
from expansion of these sectors, more than compensating for stagnating petro-
leum production and the continued decline in refining output.
8.        Despite this level of economic growth, however, the decline in agri-
cultural employment, the capital-intensive nature of the petroleum sector and
rapid growth of the labor force have contributed to persistent high unemploy-
ment rates, Trinidad and Tobago's most serious economic and social problem.
Unemployment in the 1970s has been estimated at between 13% and 15%, including
both "job-seekers" and "other unemployed." The incidence of unemployment is
highest in the 15-24 age group. The situation has been exacerbated by inade-
quate or inappropriate education and training of the labor force, so that high
unemployment rates exist side by side with serious shortages of skilled manpower.
9.        As a consequence of the rise in petroleum prices and the Government's
reform of the tax system, Central Government revenues expanded almost threefold
in 1974 and continued to grow at an average nominal rate of about 27% during
1975-78. Petroleum revenues accounted directly for over 80% of the increase.
1/   Excluding refining



- 3 -
Despite accompanying rapid growth in current expenditures, the Central Govern-
ment was able to generate current budgetary savings averaging about 18% of GDP
during 1974-78. These savings were adequate to finance a greatly expanded
level of capital expenditures as well as the accumulation of about US$850
million in special funds earmarked for development purposes.
10.        The oil price increase turned the balance of payments around in
1974, after several years of increasingly large current account deficits.
Large current account surpluses, together with private capital inflows adequate
to finance about 25% of gross domestic investment, permitted the accumulation
of some US$1.3 billion in reserves between 1974 and 1977.  In 1978, however,
the current account surplus narrowed considerably, registering only US$17
million. The decrease reflected minimal growth in export value due to a
decline of export volume, as petroleum production leveled off and refined
exports continued to fall. At the same time, as a consequence of rising
prices, import value rose by an estimated 16%. Some US$104 million in net
public capital inflows, however, together with net private capital inflows
amounting to about US$187 million, permitted the accumulation of an additional
US$308 million in foreign exchange reserves in 1978.
Development Policy and Growth Prospects
11.        The dramatic increase in petroleum revenues has made it possible
for Trinidad and Tobago to undertake high levels of development expenditure
without being unduly constrained by the need for financial resources. While
this situation is expected to continue over the medium term, Trinidad and
Tobago's proven petroleum reserves, estimated at eight years, are limited
and the Government cannot rely on the continuation of petroleum revenues
at their present level over the longer term. Accordingly, the major thrust
of the Government's development policy is the utilization of the country's
substantial natural gas deposits in large, export-oriented industrial
projects to ensure a substitute for the possible loss of foreign exchange
earnings and government revenues stemming from the eventual decline in
petroleum production. Projects in preparation or under execution include
plants for the manufacture of ammonia, iron and steel, cement, methanol, and
liquefied natural gas. At the same time, continued efforts to promote petro-
leum exploration and development so as to minimize production declines are
planned. Efforts are also being made to accelerate development of the manufac-
turing and agricultural sectors in order'to diversify the export base, promote
import substitution and generate employment.
12.        The removal of the financial constraint to growth has not altered
many of the negative characteristics of a "dual economy," in which the higher
productivity of the petroleum sector contrasts sharply with the more modest
achievements of the rest of the economy. As a resu'lt, a number of constraints
impede rapid economic development. The absorptive capacity of the economy is
limited by acute shortages of trained manpower and inadequate infrastructure.
Serious bottlenecks in the construction industry also need to be surmounted.
Moreover, the inefficiency and low productivity of manufacturing and agricul-
ture, the shortage of entrepreneurial, managerial and skilled- manpower
resources, and the scarcity of well-trained management personnel in the public
sector will have to be overcome.



- 4 -
13.       The possibility of a gradual decline in petroleum production during
the next decade will have a significant direct impact on economic growth
prospects. Even assuming strong growth of investment and a continued con-
struction boom, output of the nonpetroleum economy is unlikely to expand at
more than 7-8% annually in real terms during the early to mid-1980s. If these
high rates of growth of the nonpetroleum sector are achieved, and petroleum pro-
duction reaches a maximum decline of no more than 5.2% per year beginning in 1982,
GDP growth will average about 4 1/2% during 1979-83, thereafter rising to between
5% and 6% if the large energy-based projects are implemented according to
schedule. The major constraint to achieving even these levels of growth over
the next decade will be the capacity of the country's nonpetroleum economy to
transform the economic surplus generated by the petroleum sector into produc-
tive investment for expanding its own output and employment.
Investment and Financing
14.       At present, the Government has prepared no official investment
plan extending farther ahead than the budget of 1979. It is estimated,
however, that a public sector investment program which provides for continued
investment in economic and social infrastructure in accordance with the Govern-
ment's development priorities and the launching of the large energy-based
projects in joint ventures with private firms could cost over TT$ 10 billion
during the next five years. Even assuming a fall-off in petroleum revenues
during the period, and a consequent deterioration in the level of public
sector savings as a percentage of GDP, with careful management the authorities
should be able to finance almost 70% of this investment program through public
sector savings. Based on projected levels of project-related external inflows,
and the Government's intention to utilize the Eurodollar market to maintain
its foreign exchange reserves at their present high levels, net external
borrowing could finance another 18%. The remainder of the public sector
investment program would be financed from other domestic sources, including
depreciation reserves of state enterprises and joint ventures and net domestic
borrowing.
15.       Although the development of energy-based industry will partially
compensate for the loss of petroleum revenues, it is not expected to contri-
bute sufficient resources to offset such a decline completely. Assuming the
energy-based projects are implemented on schedule, their revenue contribution
are estimated to compensate by 1990 for only about half of the projected
petroleum revenue decline as a percentage of GDP.
16.       The Government is actively concerned about fostering the rapid
expansion of private sector investment. In contrast to the situation in the
late sixties and early seventies, the 1974 influx-of petroleum wealth has
enabled the Government to become a net creditor of the banking system and
greatly expanded the financial resources available to the private sector.
The authorities are aware that the favorable fiscal situation may not continue
indefinitely and that adequate growth of credit to the private sector in the
future will depend increasingly upon greater mobilization of private savings.
Plans are therefore being made to assure the long-term growth of the private
sector through mobilization of increased domestic savings and more efficient
allocation of such resources to productive investment. To stimulate growth of



the country's capital markets, statutory modifications, which would provide
insurance companies greater leeway in the investment of their funds, are under
consideration. In addition, the authorities are planning to create a Unit
Trust to broaden the base for mobilization of domestic savings by introduction
of an instrument which spreads investor risk over a wide range of stocks.
Balance of Payments and Creditworthiness
17.       The external sector of Trinidad and Tobago has been of exceptional
size and importance for the past several decades. However, the petroleum
windfall which dramatically increased the country's import capacity in 1974
has also increased the import dependence of nonpetroleum sectors of the
economy without simultaneously increasing exports of these sectors. The
challenge facing the authorities is to expand exports of the nonpetroleum
economy and thereby reduce its large resources gap rapidly enough to offset
the expected decline in the resource surplus generated by the petroleum
sector.
18.       Because of the expected decline in petroleum exports and the sub-
stantial capital goods imports required by the large industrial projects,
a small resource gap is likely to develop in 1980 which will not be eliminated
until the mid 1980s when all the large projects, some of which are largely
export-oriented, are fully on stream. Foreign exchange reserves are projected
to increase slightly and then return to their present levels, about US$1.6
billion or the equivalent of about six months of projected imports in 1984.
This would still be a substantial amount for a small country like Trinidad
and Tobago.
19.        As a consequence of the external borrowing undertaken during the
period of heavy import-intensive investment in the early to mid-1980s, Trinidad
and Tobago's external debt service ratio is projected to increase from about
one percent of export earnings at present to not more than 10% in 1986 and to
decline somewhat afterwards. Given continued prudent fiscal policy and the
timely implementation of the public sector investment program, these levels
of debt service are well within the country's financial capacity, and Trinidad
and Tobago consequently is considered creditworthy for borrowing its external
capital requirements on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATION IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
20.       To date the Bank has made 12 loans to Trinidad and Tobago, including
the first power project loan made in 1961 with the guarantee of the United
Kingdom, for a total amount of US$92.3 million, net of cancellations. Infra-
structure projects (viz., highways, power and telecommunications) account for
US$49.5 million (54 percent) of Bank lending while education and population
projects amount to US$21.5 million (23 percent) and agricultural and industrial
financing amount to US$21.3 million (23 percent). Gross disbursements as
of March 31, 1979, amounted to US$80.4 million, of which US$22.9 million
has been repaid. The undisbursed amount of Bank loans amounted to US$11.8
million. The IFC has made a loan of US$1.15 million for a poultry project,



and a loan of US$1.2 million for a glass project was recently approved.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as
of February 28, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       In the past, Trinidad and Tobago's development was hampered by
severe financial constraints, inadequate infrastructure, weak institutions
and lack of skilled manpower. While the financial constraint has been
overcome with the accumulation of petroleum revenues Trinidad continues to
face the other main problems of many developing countries, especially
deficiencies in infrastructure, institutional capabilities, and manpower
skills. In these circumstances, the Bank's role in Trinidad and Tobago
is mainly to help the Government identify priority programs and projects and
promote policies and institutions to enhance the country's capacity to prepare
and execute projects.
22.       Bank lending in the past has been aimed at improving infrastruc-
ture, creating productive employment opportunities in agriculture and industry,
and easing the unemployment problem through qualitative improvements in educa-
tion and training. The Bank loans also provided for substantial assistance
in project preparation and technical support for project implementation. In
general, Bank projects have contributed to development of infrastructure and
renovation of plant and installations; however, the expected strengthening of
institutional capabilities has been slower than originally anticipated.
23.       Trinidad and Tobago's medium-term development strategy calls for
substantial investments in capital-intensive, energy-based industries and
related infrastructure. Through its increased participation in the economy,
the Government seeks to diversify the country's economic base, provide employ-
ment and upgrade social and economic infrastructure, including health and
education facilities. In line with the Government's plans, the Bank's assist-
ance to Trinidad and Tobago will at this time be directed towards upgrading of
the quality of education and teacher training, improving access to education,
expanding enrollments and enhancing the effectiveness of prevocational craft
courses, and improving the planning and managerial skills of the Ministry of
Education to construct and maintain educational facilities.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Background
24.       Education in Trinidad and Tobago prior to 1968 had been charac-
terized by major inequalities of opportunity within an elitist and acade-
mically biased system ill-adapted to the country's development needs. These
features are reflected in the educational profile of the labor force which,
despite the country's high literacy rate (95%), as recently as 1977 comprised
only 7% of workers with secondary level education. They also mirror the con-
tradictions of an unemployment rate of 16% (1977) within a chronic shortage
of skilled and semiskilled manpower. In the light of this situation the
Government enacted in 1967 the 15-year Education Development Plan (1968-83).



Conceived in an era of financial constraint, the Plan, intended to be imple-
mented in three phases (1968-72, 1973-77, and 1978-83), addressed only the
most glaring inequalities and deficiencies. Its salient features were universal
access to the junior secondary cycle, limited and selective progression to
the senior secondary cycle, and curricula reform at both levels to make them
more employment-oriented. The dramatic upturn in the country's economic
situation in the post-1973 period induced the Government in 1975 to reappraise
its plan. In essence, the revised Plan adopted more comprehensive sector
development norms, notably: (i) five years of secondary education for all
students; (ii) the redirection of senior secondary education, to make it more
responsive to economic development needs, but within the concept of a single,
integrated secondary comprehensive school system, rather than by the construc-
tion of separate vocational schools as previously planned; (iii) the integra-
tion within the national system of the denominational schools, a major component
of the education service, but with the abolition of the former cost-sharing
formula in favor of government responsibility for all costs; and (iv) a sus-
tained drive to resolve equity issues and to improve the quality of education
at all levels. The Government remains committed to the achievement of these
goals.
Overview of the Education Sector
25.        The Ministry of Education and Culture exercises jurisdiction over
almost all education services. The formal education system consists of seven
years of primary, five to seven years of secondary, and three to five years of
higher education.
26.        The first fruits of the Government's vigorous pursuit, over the
past decade, of its sector development targets are already apparent. Net
enrollment rates have improved significantly and in 1977 stood at 97.5%,
93% and 54%, respectively, of the corresponding primary, junior secondary and
senior secondary age groups. Male and female participation rates have always
been in balance. Progression rates from primary to junior secondary cycle
are very high; and drop-out is negligible, despite the fact that compulsory
schooling terminates at 12 years of age. Cost-effective education has been
generally achieved through economic class sizes and reasonable student-teacher
ratios.
27.        Notwithstanding these achievements, a number of major issues
must now be urgently addressed if the Government's revised sector develop-
ment plan is to attain its goals by 1983. In terms of physical resources,
a considerable number of primary schools (85 schools with a total enrollment
of 35,400 students) many of them serving disadvantaged communities, are
dilapidated, overcrowded and unsuitable for the modern curricula recently
adopted; these cannot be economically remodelled and require replacement.
Furthermore, many new junior secondary places must be provided if the large
number of primary school graduates presently retained in inadequate and ill-
equipped senior primary classes for lack of accommodation in junior secondary
schools are to be afforded parity of educational opportunity with their peer
group. Lastly, automatic progression from the junior to the senior secondary
cycle will require the provision of courses suitable for a wider student ability



- 8 -
range. This factor, coupled with the Government's aim to meet the crucial need
for a skilled labor force, by the inclusion of new, specialized craft courses
in senior secondary classes, and a redistribution of enrollments to attract more
students into prevocational streams, necessitates the extension of existing
senior/composite secondary schools to provide the corresponding physical
facilities.
28.       In the context of human resources and quality education, a sustained
effort is now required (i) to complete the certification of unqualified
primary school teachers; (ii) to retrain junior secondary school staff who
are for the most part graduates of primary teacher training institutions
with limited additional specialized teacher education; (iii) to meet the
serious dearth of professionally trained guidance counsellors and teachers
of science, mathematics and the technologies; and (iv) to develop a national,
institutionalized capacity for curriculum research and development, the
continuous upgrading of teachers/administrators in response to the changing
needs of society and industry, and for production and mass distribution of
teachers' guides, and learning/teaching materials.
29.       The expeditious and efficient implementation of the Government's
Education Development Plan will necessitate improved planning and managerial
skills on the part of the Ministry of Education and Culture, in particular
in the areas of physical construction and school maintenance. To date these
responsibilities have been vested in the Ministry of Works, effectively
denying to the Ministry of Education control over matters of direct concern
and interest. To remedy this situation the Government proposes to establish,
as a dependency of the Ministry of Education, an Education Projects Implementa-
tion Unit (EPIU) whose functions would embrace the management and oversight of
all the physical aspects of existing and future educational institutions that
fall within the purview of the Ministry of Education.
Government's Strategy for Educational Development
30.       The Government's major sector objectives remain those postulated
in the 1975 revision of its Education Development Plan, viz (i) the equali-
zation of educational opportunity at least between the ages 5-16 years;
(ii) the reorientation of curricula to respond to modern educational trends,
the career aspirations of students of a wide range of ability, and the needs
of the labor market; and (iii) the complementary training/retraining of
teachers, and the expansion of support systems, to meet the changing criteria.
31.       In pursuance of these objectives, the Government's basic educational
policies focus upon: (a) the improvement of existing, and the development of
new planning and management skills within the Ministry of Education, the
better to implement the Education Development Plan; (b) a program of construc-
tion to rehabilitate both government and government-assisted primary schools;
to increase the number of junior secondary places to the point where universal
access to this level of education would be achieved, hence abolishing the
senior primary classes and the Selective Entrance Examination; and to augment
provision and reorient the direction of senior secondary schools, to replace
the selective examination at the post-junior secondary cycle by automatic
progression, at the same time emphasizing the teaching of vocational skills;



- 9 -
(c) a program of teacher education, to upgrade and/or professionalize as
required primary and secondary school teachers; and (d) the development of an
institutionalized capacity for curriculum research, development, testing and
evaluation, and for the production and mass dissemination of teaching/learning
materials.
External Assistance for Education and Training
32.       Two previous Bank loans have been made in support of the Govern-
ment's sector development objectives. The first Bank project of US$9.2
million (Loan No. 564-TR), assisted implementation of Phase I of the Plan,
as it related to innovative concepts with regard to new and modernized forms
of junior secondary education and the introduction of pretechnician courses in
the new style comprehensive schools. The first project included the construc-
tion and equipping of 16 junior secondary schools and three new, and exten-
sions to three existing senior comprehensive schools. It further assisted
in the modernization and rationalization of primary teacher training by the
provision of a new teacher training college. The project was completed in
1976. The relevant Project Performance Audit Report (SecM77-503) noted
that the project was generally successful. The school places provided were
fully utilized and the planned diversification of curricula took place.
A second Bank loan of US$9.3 million (Loan No. 862-TR) supported the second
phase of the Plan, which focussed on the further expansion of educational
opportunities at junior and senior secondary school levels, implementation
of a secondary school teacher training program, reform of technical education
and the nonformal training of farmers. It included the construction and
equipping of six junior secondary, four composite junior/senior secondary
and three comprehensive schools, together with a teacher training college, a
technical institute and a farmer training center; related technical assistance
was also included. Despite delays in the construction of three secondary
schools which have faced contractor and/or site problems, the project should
be completed by June 1980.
33.       IDB approved a US$9.4 million loan in 1972 for the construction of
vocational schools and the expansion of the John S. Donaldson Technical
Institute; all but US$1.8 million of the loan was cancelled following on the
Government's decision against separate vocational schools. Additional external
aid, mainly in the form of technical assistance, is being provided by the IDB
for upgrading the Ministry of Education Planning Unit; by the EEC for technical
teacher training; by the UK for the San Fernando Technical Institute; by the
OAS for education of handicapped adults and establishment of an Institute of
Languages; and by the UNDP for occupational classification and coding. The
total cost of these technical assistance programs is of the order of US$3
million, and is provided on a nonreimbursable basis.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Trinidad and Tobago - Staff Appraisal Report on
a Third Education Project " (No. 2430b-TR dated May 21, 1979) is being distrib-
uted separately. The project was identified by a Bank sector mission in



- 10 -
July 1977 and was appraised in November/December 1978. Annex III contains a
timetable of key events in processing the project and a description of the
special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations for the proposed loan
took place in Washington, D.C., from May 7 to 11, 1979. The Trinidad and
Tobago delegation was led by Mr. Frank Barsotti, Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance.
Objectives
35.       The project would assist the Government in equalizing educational
opportunity within the context of an improved and relevant education system
at all levels, and more specifically at the primary and secondary levels.
Besides increasing the number of secondary school places and providing new
and modern facilities at both primary and secondary levels, the project
would upgrade the quality of education by improved teacher education,
curriculum development, and teaching and learning support systems. In recog-
nition of the need to ensure timely and efficient implementation of the
physical facilities of the rapidly expanding education sector, the project
would establish an Education Projects Implementation Unit (EPIU) in MOEC.
Project Description
36.       The project would consist of:
(a) Construction, equipping and furnishing of (i) up to 27 primary
schools, (ii) two junior secondary schools, and (iii) extensions
to six senior secondary and two composite secondary schools;
(b) Construction, equipping and furnishing of (i) a National
Curriculum and Teacher Development Center (NCTDC), and (ii) a
Regional Teacher Development Center; and
(c) Technical Assistance composed of (i) 10 manyears of specialist
services and 9.25 manyears of fellowships for teacher develop-
ment, teacher training and guidance and counselling, and
(ii) 10 manyears of professional project management services
to assist in establishing and operating EPIU.
37.       Primary Schools:  In support of the Government's commitment to
provide universal education of an appropriate quality for all children from
ages 6 to 12, the project would help provide 9,320 student places by
replacing up to 27 dilapidated and outmoded denominational primary schools.
The primary school curriculum would follow the national norm and include
practical courses in basic science and agriculture, handicrafts, health
and nutrition education. The design of schools would provide areas for
library, health room and meal distribution. 15 schools representative
of all regions and the major denominations in the country have been identi-
fied for replacement and the other schools to be replaced are yet to be
selected. The criteria for selection include equity considerations in
respect of (i) location, (ii) assistance to the various denominational
authorities, and (iii) socio-economic conditions in the community, so as to



- 11 -
meet the needs of the most disadvantaged groups in society. Special considera-
tion would be given to the inclusion of one or more schools in Tobago
(Section 3.14 of Loan Agreement). The day-to-day management of the schools
would be conducted by joint management boards representative of the community,
religious denominations and the Government. In accommodating the legitimate
interests of the denominational authorities, the joint management arrangements
would ensure that national norms are followed with respect to the educational
curriculum. Negotiations between the interested parties to produce a model
agreement for joint management have begun and the final draft of the agreement
would be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement).
38.       Secondary Schools:  This project component would support the Govern-
ment's objective of providing all eligible primary school pupils five years
of secondary education. A program for substantial expansion of facilities
for secondary education has been approved by the Government. The Bank has
been assured that access to junior secondary schools for all eligible primary
school pupils would be ensured (Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement). The two new
junior secondary schools included in the project would add 2,880 student places
and the extensions to eight senior and composite secondary would add 1,316
student places. The design of courses at the secondary level would be such
as to satisfy the different ability ranges of students and enable them to
pursue academic, pretechnician and craft courses within a single integrated
secondary school system. Though only 1,316 places would be added in the eight
senior and composite secondary schools included in the project, the planned
enrollment redistributibn would assign a greater proportion of students to
technical and craft courses. This redistribution, combined with the joint
use of existing and new facilities, would effectively provide craft training
for about 2,752 students and pretechnician courses for some 2,816 students
in a wide variety of industrial, commercial, home economics and agricultural
options. The craft-oriented and pretechnician courses would provide oppor-
tunities for formal post-secondary education or employable skills which could
constitute the basis for accelerated apprenticeship training in specific
crafts or technology-related programs. In order to introduce appropriately
designed craft courses in the project schools, the Government has agreed to
evaluate, not later than January 1, 1981, the craft courses presently being
offered in senior secondary schools and to recommend to the Bank such
modifications to these courses as may be necessary (Section 3.12 of Loan
Agreement).
39.       Curriculum and Teacher Development:  The most pressing needs for
the qualitative improvement of education in Trinidad and Tobago lie in the
areas of teacher education, curriculum development and teaching/learning
support systems. The project provides for a National Curriculum and
Teacher Development Center (NCTDC) to help meet these needs. The NCTDC would
consolidate research and development of curricula at the primary and
secondary levels and, in parallel with the coordinating functions at the
post-secondary level of National Institute for Higher Education, assist in
the rationalization of all educational research and development programs.
The teacher development center would conduct or host in-service refresher
courses for teachers, supervisors, principals and teacher educators in all



- 12 -
aspects of curriculum, teaching methodology, school organization and
administration. In support of the Government's plans to equalize additional
opportunities for teachers as between urban and rural zones of the country,
the project provides for the setting up of a regional teacher development
center at San Fernando. This center would complement the work of the NCTDC in
the field of teacher education. The Government has plans to develop a limited
number of similar centers in other parts of the country. The NCTDC would take
over the existing School Publications Unit. With greater provision of equip-
ment, facilities and staffing, NCTDC would ensure an adequate supply of
teaching materials to schools and learning materials to underprivileged
students in parallel with progress in curriculum development and teaching
methodology.
40.       Technical Assistance:  Improvement in the quality of teacher
education, and specifically of technical/vocational and agricultural
education, would be supported by the provision of 10 manyears of specialist
services and 9.25 manyears of fellowships. The technical assistance
included in the project would also help in the planning and inauguration
of the NCTDC and the regional teacher development center, besides helping
to develop a Guidance and Counselling Service within MOEC. The selection
of specialists and their terms of reference and conditions of service would
be decided in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.04 of Loan Agreement).
Similarly, the selection of candidates for fellowships would be done in
consultation with the Bank and specific proposals for the fellowship program
would be sent to the Bank for review not later than December 31, 1979
(Section 3.04 of Loan Agreement).
41.       Crucial to the effective implementation of the Government's program
for expansion of investments in the education sector is the need to develop
in MOEC institutional capability for the management of construction and
commissioning of the educational facilities. The Government has established
EPIU to perform this function and recruitment of its staff is now being
arranged. It has been agred that the form, powers, staffing and responsi-
bilities of EPIU should be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of Loan
Agreement). In recognition of the inadequacy of expertise available to carry
out large investments in the education sector, the project provides for
10 manyears of professional project management services. The project manage-
ment team would assist EPIU in the implementation of the project and train
and coach the EPIU to develop into a self-sufficient and capable institution
for managing MOEC's investments in educational facilities.
Project Implementation
42.       The project would be implemented by the newly created EPIU which
would consist of a Project Manager, and an educator, architect, quantity
surveyor, procurement specialist and accountant, all on a full-time basis.
During the project implementation phase, EPIU would be coached, trained and
supported by an expatriate project management team. The composition of the
expatriate team would parallel that of EPIU's professional staff. The qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment (including the
terms of reference) of the project management team should be satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.04 of Loan Agreement). The Bank loan would finance the
costs of the expatriate project management team. The appointment of the staff
of EPIU and the conclusion of an agreement for the employment of the project
management team are conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01 of Loan



- 13 -
Agreement). In view of the high priority of the project and the need for
institutional capability for project implementation in this sector, the
Government has provided for the establishment of a high-level task force
composed of representatives of relevant Ministries (namely, Education and
Culture, Finance, Planning and Development and Works) to help in the starting
up of the project, review its progress during the implementation phase, and
enable prompt decisions to be taken during the various stages of project
execution. The project would be implemented in four years. An implementation
schedule would be prepared by EPIU and reviewed with the Bank periodically.
Sites required for the first phase construction program (including the 15
primary schools which have been identified) have been selected. Acquisition
of sites for the project items are unlikely to cause delays, inasmuch as these
facilities are expected to be built on government-owned lands. Assurances
have been obtained that the selection and/or acquisition of sites for the
primary and junior secondary schools would be completed within six months of
the date of the Loan Agreement (Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
43.       The total project cost is estimated at US$54.6 million (net of taxes
and duties), including physical contingencies of US$3.7 million and price
contingencies of US$13.9 million. Physical contingencies average about 10% of
base costs. Price contingencies, on average 34% of base costs plus physical
contingencies, reflect the pressures on the local construction industry and
the relatively high labor costs. Specialist services and fellowships are
estimated at US$4,800 per man/month for specialists (including all local costs
and overheads) and at US$17,500 per man/year for fellowships. Project manage-
ment services are calculated at 5% of total civil and site works costs. The
proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million would finance approximately 37% of
project costs and cover approximately 88% of the estimated foreign exchange
costs. The balance of project costs would be borne by the Government.
44.       Recurrent costs related to the project would amount to approximately
US$3.7 million annually (at 1980 prices). Total recurrent costs represent
about 1.8% of the recurrent expenditures of MOEC for 1980 and these costs
would not impose an undue burden on the Government's financial capability.
Procurement
45.       Contracts for major civil works would amount to US$25.1 million and
for furniture and equipment US$7.0 million. In view of the relatively small
size and scattered location of the primary schools included in the project,
all civil works contracts for these schools would be awarded after competitive
bidding based on local advertising in accordance with local procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Furniture and equipment items would be
grouped to form sizeable packages to permit bulk procurement; those that
cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured on the
basis of local procedures acceptable to the Bank. The total cost of furniture
and equipment procured in this manner would not in the aggregate exceed
US$450,000 (equivalent to about 5% of the estimated total cost of furniture
and equipment). In the case of procurement under international competitive
bidding procedures, domestic furniture and equipment manufacturers would be
accorded preferential treatment in bid evaluation limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods or applicable duty, whichever is the lower. Regional



- 14 -
preference for other members of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) would be
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of nonregional goods or the difference in
tariffs whichever is the lower.
Disbursements
46.       The loan would be disbursed in four-and-a-half years as follows:
(a) 31% of total expenditures for civil works (including construction, site
works and professional fees); (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture and equipment; (c) 75% of total expenditure for imported
furniture and equipment procured locally; (d) 100% of ex-factory price of
furniture and equipment manufactured locally; and (e) 100% of expenditures
relating to project management services and technical assistance and fellow-
ships. In principle, all disbursements would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
47.       In educational terms, the project would assist the government to:
(i) redress the balance of inequality of educational opportunity by providing
a high quality learning/teaching environment for about 9,320 primary, 2,880
lower secondary and 2,752 senior secondary students; (ii) promote the elimin-
ation of curriculum distortions at the primary level by the abolition of the
Common Entrance Examination and the senior primary classes; (iii) expand
access to, and provide more relevant work-oriented education in the senior
secondary schools; (iv) initiate professional training courses for teachers of
agriculture, technical/vocational subjects, and for guidance/counselling
staff; and (v) institute procedures for the continuous upgrading of teachers,
for curriculum research and development, and the production, publication and
distribution of teaching/learning materials. In the realm of institution
building the project would assist the Government (i) to develop within MOEC a
permanent capacity for the planning, management and supervision of the physical
requirements of the education sector; and (ii) to establish a national institu-
tionalized capacity for teacher upgrading, curriculum development and teacher/
student support systems. Technical assistance included in the project would
foster timely and efficient project implementation.
48.       The principal risks which might affect project implementation negatively
are: (a) the limitations of the overcommitted construction industry in Trinidad
and Tobago; (b) difficulties in increasing quickly the supply of science and
practical subject teachers and upgrade primary/secondary teachers; and (c) the
need to reach early agreement between the Government and denominational authorities
for joint management of primary schools included in the project. In order
to overcome the constraints of the construction industry, the Government has
launched a program to expand local cement production and facilitate increased
availability of building materials; besides it has been providing encourage-
ment and support to both domestic and foreign contractors. The establishment
of EPIU and the assistance of the project management team included in the
project should ensure that the construction program remains on schedule.
With regard to the supply of science and practical subject teachers and
training programs for teacher upgrading, the necessary physical facilities
exist and recruitment of teaching staff and specialists is under way.
In-service training courses for primary and secondary teachers in the Valsayn
teacher training college, which is being constructed under the second educa-
tion project, is expected to commence in 1979. No later than six months
after the date of the Agreement, the Government would take actions to revise



- 15 -
the curricula for primary and secondary teacher training and appoint staff
to conduct in-service teacher training courses for technical/vocational
teachers at the John Donaldson Technical Institute (Section 3.07 of Loan
Agreement). Additionally, the Government has agreed that within six months
of the signing of the Loan Agreement, arrangements would be finalized
with the Ministry of Agriculture for the use of ECIAF for the training of
teachers of agriculture (Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement). In order to ensure
the smooth functioning of project primary schools, discussions between the
Government and the denominational authorities for the working out of a
model agreement for joint management of the erstwhile denominational schools
have reached an advanced stage and the Government has assured the Bank
that the final draft of the model agreement would be furnished to the
Bank no later than June 30, 1981 (Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement). No
undue delay is anticipated in reaching agreement since most sites and all
capital and recurrent costs of these schools will be met exclusively by
the Government.
Evaluation
49.       The Government has agreed (i) in the context of the senior secondary
craft courses, to evaluate the results of the craft courses presently being
offered in nonproject schools, and to submit to the Bank the-conclusions and
recommendations deriving from this study prior to January 1, 1981; (ii) to
keep the Bank informed of sector advances towards the realization of targeted
goals, specifically in respect of guidance and counselling, teacher education,
curriculum research and student/teacher support systems, as well as of major
sector policy developments (Section 3.12 of Loan Agreement); and (iii) to
furnish to the Bank, within six months of the closing of the loan account, a
preliminary project completion report (Section 3.11 of Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Annex III Section 3. Additional conditions for effectiveness are the
appointment of key staff of EPIU and the employment of the project management
team.
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22, 1979



ANNEX I
- 16-                                         Page 1 of 5
TRINIDAD 4 TOBAGO - SOCIAL IDICATORS DATA SHEET
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO        BERINCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVnEAGS
LAWD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             5.1                                               SAME        SANI    NUT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      1.7                              MDST RECENT    GOGRAPHIC    ItRoE       INCOME
1960  b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /B     RGION /c  GROUP d   GROUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US)               870.0     1450.0   2380.0          1066.7    1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PRR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL SQUIVALENT)   1775.0                              911.1    1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                       0.8        1.0       1.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 21.9     24.1      25.1           57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DC.                    157.0      196.0    219.0            25.6       27.6       55.8
PER SQ. gM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   552.0     690.0    655.0            77.6      116.4       83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       42.8       41.2      36.2           42.0       34.8       40.0
15-64 YRS.                       53.2       55.1      59.7           52.2      56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 4.0        3.7       4.1            3.7        5.7        3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.8        2.1 /f   1.1 /f          2.7        1.6        2.9
URBAN                                       3.0       1.9            4.3        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    38.0      28.1      24.9           35.8       27.0       31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    10.5       7.6       6.7            9.1        9.9        7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            2.7        2.0       1.8            2.6        1.9        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..         .
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        ..        ..           15.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           94.6      100.0      90.7          102.1      103.8      114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                100.0       97.0    105.0           103.9      110.4      113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        62.0       64.0      65.0           60.3       77.7       89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       ..       34.0 Ll  33.3            26.7       22.2       48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    3.2        1.8       2.1            8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   64.2      66.1      69.5           62.6       63.0       60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         45.0       34.4      26.9           56.9       38.2       22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..       96.0                     60.7       67.7       83.0
URBAN                             ..       100.0                    78.0       83.5       100.0
RURAL                             ..       95.0                     34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..       81.0      92.0           61.1       70.3       57.8
URBAN                             *-       51.0      83.0           80.3       90.7       99.3
RURAL                             ..       96.0      97.0           25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2570.0 /   2330.0   1970.0          1899.3    1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    760.0 /L   400.0    360.0          1220.1      849.2      676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          190.0 /h   230.0    240.0 IL        422.3      275.4       325.8
URBAN                           90.0       60.0      60.0 li       258.2      129.9       250.0
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..         2281.6      965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         ..        ..           25.6       18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..        4.8        ..            5.2        3.9
URBAN                             ..         ..        ..
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOn
TOTAL                            1.8         1.7       ..            2.0        0.9
URBAN                            1.6         1.7       ..             2.1       0.8
RURAL                            1.8          ..       ..             2.7       1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           38.0        66.0     77.0            51.2      59.2
URBAN                           70.8          ..       ..            77.3      78.0
RURAL                           30.0          ..       ..            12.8      12.5



- 17-                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO          REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A ZRAGES
- MOST R8CENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
lOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS           78.0        83.0       98.0
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 7.                                      103.5       97.6        104.1
FEMALE                76.0       83.0                        102.9        87.4       120.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 22.0        41.0       79.0   .          37.2       47.8         44.7
FEMALE                21.0        41.0                        37.9        42.6        46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 1.0           6.0        8.7              14.7       22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0        34.0       28.0              32.8       25.4         30.6
SECONDARY                          28.0        25.0       27.0              17.8       24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         93.0          ..      95.0              74.9       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         44.0         73.0       94.0             26.9       32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         86.0        276.0         ,             173.5      201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        56.0       94.0             69.4       97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   84.0          . .                       72.8       70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  8.0           8.0         ..              4.3        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        280.0       370.0      430.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.0          ..         ..             21.4       17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              20.0         23.0       13.4             37 .8      38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 34.4           ..         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.3        32.9       35.1             30.8       33.7         40.1
MALE                                  48.9        46.7       49.0             47.2        50.8        55.8
FEMALE                                17.9        19.4       21.2             13.2        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.3        1.3              1.7         1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        19.0       18.0             28.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          53.0       49.0             57.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         3.0        3.1              3.2        3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        10.0       11.0             10.7       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            251.9
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            200.6      157.9.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            403.1      448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      393.0            258.0      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             24.8       23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       90.0             65.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  Due to emigration, population growth is lower than rate of natural
increase;  /R  Av. 1964-66;  /h  1962; /i  1972,  Xi net enrollment.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                                                Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Sail:  The adj)uted group averages for each indicator are populatio-ewighted geotric means, excluding the extre  vlues of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coveraga of countrie  among the indicators depends on avilability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group avo.ugee for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrsta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple popularion-wighted geometric means without the exclusion of extra values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kn)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban .nd rural - Population (total,
Total - Total nurface area comprising land ares and inland waters,                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultral - Moat recent estimate of agricultural ares used temporarily                  available in public and private gener-l snd specialized hospital and re-
sr nermaner:lv fcr crops, pastures, market and kitchen gard-ns or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments pernently staffed by
Mo  fulloc.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health end -di-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
calccicted by saee con..ersioo. method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sisatnt, nurse, sidvife, etc.) which offer in-patient acoo- dation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 dta.                                                                provide a limited r-nge of medical facilities.
Adasiona per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comnercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(cool and lignite, petroleum, netural gas end hydro-, nuclear and geo-
therml1 electricity) in kilogras of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Averaxe sine of household (osreons per houehold) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A houehold conIsts of a group of individuals who  hahre living quarters
Totul populatico, mid-year (millions) - A. of July 1; if not available.                    and their main eals   A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
ovorage of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Orbun Populution (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tiop; different definitions of urban areas nay affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average  ou-
of dots ang  countrien.                                                                   er of persons per room in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Populution density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  aq  h.   - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per so  km  agriculture land - Computed as sbove for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population uie structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), werking-age
(15-64 yearn), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATTON
year population                                                                      Adjusted anrollmnt ratios
Pepularioc arowth rcte (percent) -         total, and urban - Compound annual            Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 uges
growth rotos of total and urban mid-year populationa for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjosted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       differsnt lengths of primary education; for countriers  ith univers-l edo-
mid-year ppaletion; ton-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment   y exceed 100 percnrt since some popilt are below or
1971 cod fie-poor uverage ending in 1975 fnr meat recent estite,                         bove the official school age.
Crude doath rate (p-r thousand) - Annual deatha per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female   Computed as sbove; necondary oduca-
y-r population;  ta-year arithmetic averages  nding in 1961 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instructio.; pro-
and 71cc-your ocerage onding in 1975 for mst recent estimate                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproductiuo  rate - Average number of daughters a woman  ill bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corr-epondence courses are generally
in her norma-l reproductive period if she emperiences present age-                       encluded.
specific fertility r-tes; asually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, uod 1975.                                                                          lude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as dspartments of secondary institutions.
uccaptora of birth-control devices under auspices of national faily                  Pupil-teacher ratio - priry  and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
family planning  - users (perccnt of married woman) - Percentage of                        sponding levels.
mrried wen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) whc use birth-control                  Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adulto  (able to read and write) an
devicen  Lc .11 married wmen in sm  sge group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
loder  of food production per capita (1971.=00) - loden nuhber of per                  P sasnger cars (por thousand population) - Passenger carm   comprise  otor ccar
capita annual production  of all food coadities                                       seating less than eight persons; encludec ambulances, hearses and military
Pec capit. ouppIv of calories (percent of requirements) - Cosputed from                 vehicles.
energy eqivalent of net food supplies availsble in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand poPulation) - All types of reoeivers for radio
per day   o lAvail-b   nupplie.   comprise domestic production, imports lees          broadcssrt  to general public per thousand of population; occludes unlicensed
-porco,  sod changos in stock   Nert oupplies excludde  nimal feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wa.  in
qUacticie. coed in food processing, and losses in distribution.   Re-                 effect; dots for recent years may not be comparabl  since moat countries
qclroeont crcea tieated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
ral -ctivity and health considering enviroantal temperature, body                    T  receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
soighto, uge and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; emcludea solicenned TV receivers in coun-
cont for cante at household lvel.                                                       tries ad in years when registration of TV nets wan in effect.
Per -apita tuPpl of protein (agrom  per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -  howe the average clrcula-
000100 out supply o  fo od prp1  o                       od is defined as                tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
shove. ..quir.emt  for all  countries established by USDA provide foc                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a snicuc ulloswance of 60 gras of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four timean ucek.
.f animal and pulse protein, of which 10 goams should be animal protein.               inema          attendance per ca pits per rear - Based on tho number of ticketa
Ihooc onuodards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-ic cinenas and mobile
23 praou of onlal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
PAl ic tho Third World Food Survoy.
Pfr capita protein supply from animal nd pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived fron animals and pulses in gr m  per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Econonically active persons.  including armed
Child (age  1-4) mortality rte (per thouaand) - AnD-nu   deaths per thous-                 forces and unomployed but ancluding housewives, stdeuts, etc.  Defini-
and  .n ge grcup 1-4 peare, to children in this age group.                               tion.  in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTP                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
:'c         c       h4rih (rears) - Average number of years of life                        an p     ercen tage  of total labor force.
cvnuini <g at bIrth; ueually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1971.                                                                                 lectricity, water  and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infat mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and fomale - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                '.male labor force as peccentages of their respective populations.
Acccus to safe water (percent of  ooulation) - total, urban, and rural -                   Th.se are ILO'  adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-teo
funher  of people (total. urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    strucrore of the population. ond lon  rime trend.
safe cater supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    tonomic deenpdency ratio - Ratio of population order 15 and 65 and ovr to
occoctani-uted water such as that from protected boreheles, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 yearn.
und nocciory wells) as peroenttges of their respective populations.
In an crbln aras  public fountain or etamdpoat located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
tha- 20C meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
ucrahle access of that hou--   In rural areas rea.     o . .bls access would             percent, riohest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, sod poorest 40 percent
iopic chat the houee-ife or mebers of the houaehold do not have to                       of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
cuter needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access tc e. cta dinncual (cercent of Population) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty incom  level (UiS  per capit.) - urban asd rural -
rural - Numeber of peoplc (total, urban, and rural) servad by eacreta                      Absolute  poverty income leve  is that income level below which a mininul
diupoo..  as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus  assential non-food requirenent. is not
diupous  cay inclcde the colleotion and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
trect=ento  of  _oman emerets and wate-water by water-borne systema                   Ettimated relative poverty incom  level (U1S  per capita) - urban and rural -
cs  the cue sf pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relativ  poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal incom  of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Ectimated population balp  povertv in oes level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population par nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and feale graduate nuraes, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater
-sistant nursei.
Econenic and Social Data Divinion
Econoeic Analysis and Projections Depaurtent



- 19 -
AIqNX I
Page 4 of 5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO:
DOKESTIC  COSNQIIC INDICATORS
Population:            1.115 nillion (nid 1977)
GNP per Capita:        US$2,380 (1977)
Antoal                                 Estinatad                                         Pro noted
1974        1975         1976         1977                19 191979                            1980         1981         1982         1983
Nationsl Accoomtt
GDP                                             2,344.2      2,405.3     2,591.4       2,695.8             2,837.6                2,96l.5      3,101.2      3,246.6      3,410.0      3,548.2
Cains from  trrn  of tredo                         27.8          -             -        _14.3               -129.2                 -130.1       -104.9       -108.9        -92.5        -82.9
Groon donestic in--e                            2,372.0      2,405.3     2,59l.4      2,681.5              2,708.4                2,831.4      2,996.3      3,137.7      3,317.5      3,465.3
Imports (includins NFS)                           784.6       912.3      1,010.6      1,068.3             1,082.3                 1,146.5      1,230.5      1,295.6      1,371.3     1,473.1
Exports (import -ap-ity)                        1,364.1      1,302.1      1,324.1     1,283.8             1,153.5                 14167.9      1,196.5      1,211.7      1,284.3      1,353.1
3soports (ineluding NFS)                        1,336.3     1,302.1      1,314.1      1,298.1             1,282.7                 1,296.7      1,301.4      1,320.6      1,376.8      1,436.0
Cons-mptio-                                     1,337.8      1,520.6      1,710.2     1,782.3             1,912.7                 2,041.4      0,197.9      2,318.8      0,424.5      2,533.1
l-nvtment                                         454.7       495.0        567.7        683.7                724.5                  768.9        832.4        902.8        980.0     1,053.2
Domestic  -vign.                                1,034.2        884.7        881.2       899.2                795.7                  790.0        798.4        818.9        893,0        932.2
Natiomal tu-ings                                  675.0        784.6        7b0.4       859.4                738.1                  728.1        748.4        710.1        753.3        780.1
Sh-ae of GDP  t 1976 prtcen
Sector 0utput                                                                    1974            1970         1976         1977        1978
Agriculturo                                                                       3.2             3.3          3.1          2.8          2.7
Mining                                                                           37.9            40.7         40.2         39.3         37.4
Ma-mf-otoriog 4/                                                                 15.5            13.9         14.1         14.6         14.9
Other                                                                            43.4            42.1         42.6         43.3         45.0
GDC  deflator (1976 = 100)                                                       71.9            93.7        100.0       110.1
E-chomfe rota (ITS per us$)                                                       2.0439          2.3721       2.4000       2.4000
Shr  of GDP at market prite. ..)                                                                Averagereomteltmnrcaoe ./.
(at re t price-)                                                                          (u  _ostast 1976 priees)
1970       0q75        1980                                                                       1970-75    1975-80
GDP                                                   100.0       100.0       100.0                                                                         1.8         5.2
Co--upti-o                                             80.1        65.3        74.3                                                                         2.0         7.6
l-v-ot-emt                                             21.8        19.9        26.8                                                                         5.3        11.0
Exports (itcl. NFS)                                    38.2-       49.5        37.9                                                                         0.6          -
Imports (i-l. NFS)                                     40.1        34.7        39.0                                                                         2.0         6.2
Domostocnamln6-                                        19.9        34.7        25.7                                                                        20.5        -2.1
N.U.-Ion    -evilgs                                    10.6        30.7        24.1                                                                        27.5        -1.2
TI$ nillimo
Act,1   InEatitated  EnUtlbted
1976        ThYT       1978
Peblic Fimoo-e
lle-tr-l Go.erome-t)
Curretnt revemo                                                                            2,126.7    2,685.4    3,077.0
Current expndttures                                                                       1,232.6    1,531.4    2,150.0
Correct  -orploc/deficit (-7                                                                 894.1    1,154.0       927.0
Capital revenoc                                                                              237.1       266.4      262.7
Capital expenditores                                                                         729.9      975.2    1,30t.0
Net e-tcrcal fioamoig                                                                        _79,7      366.7        250.0
Not do-eotit  finsmncig                                                                     -321.6      811.9      -133.7
b=aklng oy--e                                                                            (-464.8) (-1,160.4)   (-200.0)
Other                                                                                     (143.2)    (348.5)   ( 66.3)
i971-78    1979.83
Ocher Indi-atorn
Real GNP grouth rot- (7%)                                                                                3.6         4.3
Real per capita GNP gro-th rate (7.7                                                                     2.3         3.3
ICOR                                                                                                     7.9         5.9
Impor-t eloticity                                                                                        3.4         1.4
of 1976 prices amd oxchango ratro (US$).
b/ Im-oden petroloum re-iciog.



-     -
Alilll I
Page 5 of 5
TRINIDAD AliD TOBAGO:  8A1C8 OF PAYMENTS, EXTIEXAL CAFITAL AMP DEBT
(US1$ illion)
Antual                                               EstImated                                Protected
1973         1974         1975          1976         1977              1978       ii     td  1980                1981         1982          1983
Balance of Pay.ments
Exports of goods and NFS                              549.1        1,151.2      1,234.4       1,324.1      1,399.4           1,443       1,586      1,723              1,849         2,078        2,322
Imports of goods and NFS                              507.0          662.2        864.9       1,010.6      1,164.5           1 354       1 557      1 772              1 977         2 219        2 528
Re-ource balance                                        42.1         489.0        369.5         313.5        234.9              dS1      -29        -_49                  lyNg        -141         t
Factor service-   (net)                                -87.1        -274.6        -78.2       -100.8        -32.0              -40         -50        -36               -128          -185         -219
Current tran.fers (net)                                 -9.6        -17.1         -21.2         -30.0       -30.4              -32         -34         -36                -38          _41          _43
corrent accoucnt srplus)deticitl-)                    -54.6         197.4         270.0         182.6       172.5               17         -55       -121               -294          -367         -467
Direct foreign Investment                               64.6        120.2         202.8         101.4       137.7              187         130         140                160          190           180
Public M&LT louts (tot)                                 29.0        -40.7         -15.8        -141.0       142.5              104         145         124                90           166           176
Groue disborsm-ents                                 (37.3)        (55.2)        (11.2)        (10.6)     (160.3)            (114)       (159)      (159)              (167)         (271)        (300)
A-orti-ation                                         (8.8)        (40.6)        (15.1)        (61.7)       (7.5)            ( 10)       ( 14)      ( 35)              i 70)         (105)        (124)
L-rding (net)                                         (-)       (-58.8)         (-0.5)      (-89.8)      (-10.3)            7_)         (  _         -)               7-)           (            7-
Other                                                    (-5.8)       (-5.7)        (-14.3)       (-9.8)    (-10.4)             ( - 2       7 - )       7 _ )              ( - )        7 _ )        ( -
Other capital a)                                         -60.1          8.6          .95.5         16.4        47.6               -          -40         -40                -30          -20            10
Ch-gne   rnoroes (- Increase)                             21.1       -285.5        -361.5        -159.4      -500.3             -308        -180       -103                  67           31           101
Net reserves as noncth' iporct                            0.7          4.5            8.1          8.7         11.5            12.7        12.4        11.7               10.1          8.7          7.7
Outornal Debt
Debt octetandiog aod di.b.-d-                            140.6        155.4         150.1          99.1       251.1
Official                                               67.6          79.2          84.0          83.6        90.2
IBRD                                               (36.0)       (40.2)         (45.0)       (51.6)       (56.3)
ID9                                                 (0.1)         (0.1)         (0.7)         (0.7)       (0.9)
CDB                                                   7-)         (0.5)         (0.8)         (0.8)       (0.8)
Ca-ada                                              (7.5)         (7.9)         (9.2)        (10.0)      (11.8)
05A                                                (15.0)        (21.3)        7)1.1)        (16.8)      (15.0)
Other                                               (9.0)         (8.7)         (7.2)        (5.7)        (5.4)
Ovi-ace                                                73.0          76.2          66.1          13.5       160.9
Debt -sri-e payments                                      16.9         65.6           27.0         71.8        14.9
Ocorizan cot                                           (8.8)       (40.6)        (15.1)        (61.7)       (7.5)
Interest                                               (8.1)        (15.0)        (11.9)        (10.1)       (7.4)
Debc -rv-ic-/Euports intl. NFS                             3.1          4.8            2.2          5.4         1.1
Drbt cuvacanding & dieboroed/CDP                          11.3          7.9            6.6          3.8         8.5
Mar-rity structre of outctaoding debt (-.)
1 cc 5 years                                            ..           16.7          16.7          22.4        16.2
6 no 10 yp-rs                                            ..          14.7          12.1          11.9        43.8
Over 10 yetrs                                           ..           68.6          71.2          65.7        40.0
ut Includes errort and omiusions.
b7 At end of period.
n. ov tansi(b(r



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(as of March 31, 1979)
US$ millions
Loan                                                            Amount (less cancellations)
No.       Year      Borrower                     Purpose           Bank    Undisbursed
Eight loans fully disbursed (293, 486, 497, 564, 601, 819, 888
and 1056)                                                         62.5
743       1971      Trinidad & Tobago            Population         3.0         1.2
862       1972      Trinidad & Tobago            Education          9.3         6.6
1015       1974      Trinidad & Tobago Tele-
phone Co. (guaranteed       Telecommunica-
by Trinidad & Tobago)        tions             10.5        0.1
1235       1976      Trinidad & Tobago            Highway            7.0         3.9
Total                                          92.3        11.8
Of which has been repaid                       23.0
Total now outstanding                          69.3
Amount sold                  20.6
Of which has been repaid   12.9                 7.7
Total now held by Bank 1/                      61.7
Total undisbursed                                          11.8
1/     Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1979)
Amount in US$ million
Year                                      Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978      Canning and Company Ltd.            Poultry           1.15       _      1.15
Total Gross Commitment                               1.15        -     1.15
Less cancellation                                           -             -
Less sold or repaid                                     -       _         -
Total commitment now held by IFC                     1.15        -     1.15
Undisbursed                                          1.15              1.15
C. Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 743    Population Project:  US$3.0 Million Loan of May 28, 1971
Effective Date: January 31, 1972
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
All project components are essentially completed, with the major
exceptions of the Mount Hope Maternity Hospital and the introduction of
Family Life Education into the secondary school curriculum. The Port of
Spain Nurses Training School will be partly operational with the
delivery of dormitory equipment in January 1979, and fully operational
with the delivery of remaining equipment by the middle of the year. All
7 Health Centers and the Arima Community Health Training Center are in
operation. The Hospital is now expected to be completed around the middle
of 1979. Teachers should be prepared to teach Family Life Education materials
in Junior Secondary schools at the beginning of the 1979 academic year. The
number of new program acceptors has declined in the past years and the
Government has invited an external review mission to assess the program
and to recommend ways to improve performance.
Ln. No. 862    Second Education Project:  US$9.3 Million Loan of
October 25, 1972
Effective Date: February 15, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation has suffered a setback due to contractor
problems in respect of two project items and a late start, the result of
site difficulties, in regard to a third. Completion may now be expected
by June 1980, a year behind appraisal estimates, though all but one



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
institution should be completed well in advance of that date. Furniture and
equipment procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and all contracts have now
been let. The fellowship component of the technical assistance continues to
stagnate but new efforts are discernible to resolve the underlying problems of
unfilled staff vacancies and placement difficulties. Project cost estimates
are substantially unchanged, with cost overruns of about 65%, the result of
appraisal underestimates and of inflation, being met by the Borrower.
Ln. No. 1015   Telecommunications Project:  US$10.5 Million Loan of June 24, 1974
Effective Date: August 22, 1974
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Progress of the project was affected by a long delay in the procure-
ment of switching equipment, and since the award of the contract by the
Borrower was not in accordance with the Bank's evaluation of bids, an amount
of US$7.5 million was cancelled from the loan. The project is now making
reasonable progress and completion is expected by the end of 1979 - i.e.
18 months behind schedule. The company's financial position has weakened in
the absence of an increase in tariff and the grant of wage increases. The
small undisbursed balance of the loan has been almost entirely committed to
the purchase of equipment.
Ln. No. 1235   Second Highway Project:  US$7 Million Loan of April 12, 1976
Effective Date: June 24, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The major civil works in the East-West Corridor continue to be
delayed mainly by labor problems and poor performance by the principal
subcontractor who was awarded other substantial high priority work by the
Government. The works are now expected to be completed in April 1980,
about one year later than estimated at appraisal, and the loan closing
date of December 31, 1979 will need to be extended. No significant cost
overruns have occurred or are expected. The Government has not yet
utilized any part of the loan funds earmarked for technical assistance.
This matter is being taken up with the Government once again to determine
if the training and institution-building components included in the
project would be carried out.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  The project was prepared between July 1977 and September 1978.
(b) The project was prepared in 2 stages by the Government of
Trinidad and Tobago with planning and preparation assistance
provided by the Bank staff and the UNESCO.
(c) The project was proposed to the Bank in 1977.
(d) The project appraisal mission was in Trinidad in
November/December 1978.
(e) Negotiations were completed on May 11, 1979.
(f) Effectiveness is expected by September 1979.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank sent a mission in March 1979 to assist the Borrower
in formulating proposals relating to EPIU and in drawing up the terms
of reference for the proposed Project Management Team.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness include the appointment of key
staff of EPIU and the conclusion of an agreement for the
employment of a project management team acceptable to Bank
to provide specialist services to EPIU (para. 50).
(b) Other main assurances are:
(i) within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement,
sites already identified for 15 primary schools would
be acquired and sites acceptable to Bank for up to 12 addi-
tional primary schools (including some schools in Tobago)
and two junior secondary schools would be selected
(para. 42);



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) within six months of loan signing, action satisfactory
to the Bank would be taken for revision of curricula
and organization of in-service training courses for
primary and secondary teachers at Valsayn and Corinth
teacher training colleges and agreement would be
reached with Ministry of Agriculture for training of
agricultural teachers at ECIAF (para. 48);
(iii) all necessary action would be taken by the Government to
assure access to junior secondary schools for all eligible
primary school pupils (para. 38);
(iv) the final draft of the model agreement for joint management
of the denominational primary schools would be furnished to
the Bank not later than June 30, 1981 (paras. 37 and 48); and
(v) the craft courses offered in senior secondary schools
would be evaluated not later than January 1, 1981 and
the Bank would be provided the findings and recommendations
for any modification to such courses prior to introduction
of such courses in project schools (para. 38).






MAAA 15CANDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I BR D 14211
R AS H                                                                      ;       :     
AEc e   L A e 7 S f e   * t ErIE                                            Cor>   l: tribbsan                                                                                                  S
oo.
rH,  DR AGON'5 MaITS              Mo p         Bi- Boan
r Gulf                                                                -                     C PP T. %W.-                   VW1
TRIMOADAND  Q      mL%{0~TOBAGO~
oLwb mce                           ' I..
P/EA I  A5 C 4t Ni 9 E AN.
M                                                                    id ( S ( < .          S                          i1                   A/J    X                f   oW,,!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  -1    Marlt-mlll Pt
|                                                                C>{                      /~~~~~~7        M00.lTc      ar'          / \                                                               -|q
TRINIDAD AND  TOBAGO                                                  te/YCon F12  Caw                                                                                                                                                 Q)S  /   a     OO 
THIRD EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                             h.,-
A,  PRkMARY SCHOOCS                                                                                                                                                                                            w /- = 
*   fEACHEBR DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
*   COMPOSITE SECONDARE SCHOQOLS
S SENIOR SECONDARY 5CHOOL5
MACN WOADS
-MOKARL ROAD$                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J        G,,.wof Pt
-__SEL2ONEEAEY ROATISD                                                                                                                         //5                                                                            . 
E~AURAILROADS
A MRPQR _/ _JT  t
.'--   AMPS
RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *.
-INTERNAtIONAL RWOD^NEAURIES                                                                                                                                                               Oa,l
0 tT       2  3 4  5                 LO                                        La     9     h          _ 8,                                                                                                                                  lo- - drr
'l:0'    A 4  l       _   __    __    __   l  _
St.. Cr..                                                                                        7 ,l P}1ou
C*F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p-                                                                                                                                                     G..a_ta4>Bh Gows on
L. Gallm Pi                                   \                                                                                                                                                             M,  1- k   :g-::
Wall pa.l,
Colu,Mbus                          Chanl- EOV50
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~C oE6                                         C OMD



