CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1722 TR
Loan Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 13, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1722 TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD
AND TOBAGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "EPIU" means the Education Projects Implementation
Unit to be established pursuant to Section 3.02 hereof;
(b) "NCTDC" means the National Curriculum and Teacher
Development Center to be established under Part D of the Project;
(c) "TDC" means the Teacher Development Center to be
established under Part E of.the Project;
(d) "ECIAF" means the Eastern Caribbean Institute of
Agriculture and Forestry; and
(e) "project" used adjectivally means included in, relating
to or concerned with the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-2-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The ClosA,ng Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall through EPIU carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, educational,


﻿-3-
architectural and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall provide in its
budgets, promptly as needed, sums adequate to cover the annual
counterpart fund requirements for the Project and the maintenance
and operational costs of project institutions.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain in its Ministry of Education EPIU in form and with
powers, staffing and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause EPIU to be adequately staffed
at all times and shall appoint to it on a full time basis, a
director, a Project architect or engineer, a quantity surveyor or
cost engineer, a procurement officer and an accountant, all of
whom shall be persons whose qualifications and experience and
terms and conditions of service shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall employ no later than
September 30, 1979 and thereafter maintain a project management
team to assist EPIU in carrying out the Project. The terms and
conditions of employment (including the terms of reference) of the
team, its composition and the qualifications and experience of its
members shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural and
engineering consultants for Parts A to E of the Project and
specialists for Part F of the Project. The qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment (including the
terms of reference of the said consultants and specialists) shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall send to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1979, for the Bank's review and comments, specific
proposals for the fellowship programs included in Part F of the
Project. The Borrower shall select candidates for fellowships
under Part F of the Project in consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall no later than six
months after the date of this Agreement take action satisfactory


﻿-4-
to the Bank to finalize agreements between the Borrower's Ministry
of Education and: (i) its Ministry of Agriculture for the use of
ECIAF for the professional training of about 20 teachers of
agriculture annually; (ii) religious authorities with respect to
the joint management of the primary schools included in the
Project; and (iii) the University of the West Indies for the
establishment of diploma courses in guidance and counselling.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish the Bank no later than
June 30, 1981 with the final draft of a model agreement which will
provide for the day-to-day management by Joint Management Boards
of primary schools included in the Project and otherwise regulate
the operations of such Boards.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
to assure access to junior secondary schools for all eligible
primary school pupils in Trinidad and Tobago, including the
carrying out of a program, satisfactory to the Bank, assuring
such access; and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall no later than six months
after the date of this Agreement take action satisfactory to the
Bank:
(a) to revise curricula and organize in-service training
courses for primary and secondary teachers at the Valsayn and
Corinth Teacher Training Colleges; and
(b) establish teaching/administrative posts, and select
and appoint suitably qualified staff to organize and conduct
in-service training courses for 50 to 100 technical vocational
teachers annually at the John S. Donaldson Technical Institute.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall no later than six months
after the date of this Agreement, through its Ministry of Educa-
tion, establish formal procedures to be followed by EPIU and
the Ministry's departments concerned with the Project for the
continuous review of architectural designs, and furniture and
equipment lists to ensure compatibility with the educational
objectives and criteria of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall no later than December 31,
1979 furnish a project implementation schedule to the Bank and
shall at least once in every year review the said schedule with


﻿-5-
the Bank and use it in the execution and monitoring of the
Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from


﻿-6-
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.12. Without any restriction or limitation on its
obligations under Section 3.11 (c) above, the Borrower shall:
(a) keep the Bank informed of progress made in the educa-
tional sector in the achievement of targeted goals and provide
annually for the Bank's review a statement of any major policy
reformulation bearing on education;
(b) through its Ministry of Education review periodically
with the Bank the results of: (i) its guidance and counselling
training programs; and (ii) its curriculum development, teacher/
student support systems, and publications unit activities; and
(c) evaluate not later than January 1, 1981 the craft
courses offered in senior secondary schools and shall furnish to
the Bank for its review the findings and recommendations of such
evaluation including recommendations of any modification to
such courses as may be necessary for the introduction of such
courses in project schools.
1
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall no later than six months after the
date of this Agreement: (i) acquire sites satisfactory to the Bank
for the construction of fifteen primary schools included in the
Project; and (ii) select and acquire sites satisfactory to the
Bank for up to twelve additional primary schools and the two new
junior secondary schools to be constructed under the Project.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall select the remaining
denominational schools eligible for replacement under Part A of
the Project using selection criteria satisfactory to the Bank
but shall give special consideration to the inclusion of one or
more schools in Tobago.


﻿-7-
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall cause the schools, institu-
tions and facilities included in the Project to be adequately
maintained in accordance with sound maintenance practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distributic of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
WF       cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfacto ,y to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturi-g not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,


﻿-8-
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause EPIU to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial conditions.
(b) The Borrower shall cause EPIU to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the appointment of the staff of EPIU specifically
mentioned in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b) the conclusion of an agreement for the employment of the
project management team mentioned in Section 3.03 hereof.
Section 5.02. The date October 16, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Port-of-Spain
Trinidad
Cable address:
MINFIN
Trinidad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-10-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
By Is/ Victor C. McIntyre
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolas Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works (includ-           8,700,000      31%
ing construction,
site works and pro-
fessional fees)
(2) Furniture and                  7,000,000
equipment:
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) imported and                             75%
procured
locally
(c) manufactured                             100% (ex-
locally                                 factory price)
(3) Project management             1,400,000      100%
services
(4) Technical assistance             800,000      100%
and fellowships
(5) Unallocated                    2,100,000
TOTAL        20,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, powcr or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which forms a part of the Borrower's Education
Development Plan consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Primary Schools
(1) Construction, equipping and furnishing of up to 27
primary schools with about 9,320 student places to
replace obsolete, sub-standard denominational primary
schools.
(2) Provision at each such school of: (i) facilities for
practical courses in basic science and agriculture,
handicrafts, health and nutrition education; (ii) a
library area for school project work and for community
use; and (iii) a health room and a multipurpose covered
area which includes facilities for meal distribution.
Part B:   Junior Secondary Schools
Construction, equipping and furnishing of two new junior
secondary schools with about 2,880 student places.
Part C:   Senior Secondary and Composite Secondary Schools
(1) Construction, equipping and furnishing of extensions
to six senior secondary schools and two composite
secondary schools and the addition of about 1,316
student places to existing capacity.
(2) Provision of facilities for craft courses at each school
included under (1) above.
Part D:   National Curriculum and Teacher Development Center
Construction, equipping and furnishing of a National Curricu-
lum and Teacher Development Center near the Valsayn Teacher
Training College to be responsible for: (i) curriculum research
and development; (ii) teacher upgrading; and (iii) production and
distribution of teaching/learning materials.


﻿-14-
Part E:   Regional Teacher Development Center
Construction, equipping and furnishing of a Regional Teacher
Development Center near the Corinth Teacher Training College at
San Fernando to be concerned with teacher development.
Part F:   Technical Assistance
(1) Planning and inauguration of NCTDC and the Regional
Teacher Development Center requiring about 2.5 man/yLurs
of specialist services; and training/upgrading study
tours for key personnel of NCTDC's Publication Unit
requiring about 2 man/years of fellowships.
(2) Training of technical teachers (not included in the
EEC technical assistance program) at the John Donaldson
Technical Institute requiring about 5.5 man/years of
specialist services; and training and upgrading study
tours (not provided under the said program) for tech-
nical teacher trainers of the said Institute requiring
about 5.75 man/years of fellowships.
(3) Establishment of an agricultural teacher training
program at the Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agricul-
ture and Forestry requiring about one man/year of
specialist services; and upgrading of agricultural
teacher trainers requiring about 1.5 man/years of
fellowships.
(4) Development of a guidance and counselling service
within the Ministry of Education requiring about
one man/year of specialist services.
Further details of institutions and technical assistance
included in the Project are set out in the Annex hereto attached,
said Annex being subject to modification by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿-15-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Part 1:   Institutions
Total Area   Total Student
(sq.ft.)       Places
Project Item No.        Location      (approximate)  (approximate)
A. Primary Schools
Al        Santa Rita RC          5,345           160
(County Nariva)
A2        Rock River RC          5,345           160
(County Victoria)
A3        Upper Guaico RC        5,865           200
(County St. Andrew)
A4        Tableland AC           5,865           200
(County Victoria)
A5        Guaracara Hindu        5,865           200
(County Nariva)
A6        Grosvenor Presb.       6,835           240
(County St. Andrew)
A7        Hindustan Baptist      6,835           240
(County Victoria)
A8        Hockett Baptist        7,315           280
(County St. George)
A9        Gran Couva RC          7,315           280
(County Caroni)
Al0       Upper Carapichaima
Presb. (County Caroni) 8,890           360
All       CharlievillE ASJA      8,890           360
(County Victoria)
A12       San Fernando Muslim    8,890           360
(County Victoria)


﻿- 16 -
Total Area   Total Student
(sq.ft.)       Places
Project Item No.         Location      (approximate)   (approximate)
A13       Valencia RC             10,845          480
(County St. Andrew)
A14       Belmont Girls' RC       12,190          560
(County St. George)
A15       Chaguanas RC            13,890          640
(County Caroni)
A16 ) *
A7)
A17 )
A9)
A18)
A20)
A21 )
A22)
A23 )
A24)
A25 )
A26)
A27 )
*up to 12 additional schools, to be identified in agreement
with the Bank for a total of approximately 4,600 student
places.
B.   Junior Secondary Schools*
B1                                71,410        1,440
B2                                71,410       1,440
*Locations to be identified in agreement with the Bank.


﻿- 17 -
Total Area   Total Student
(sq.ft.)       Places
Project Item No.        Location      (approximate)  (approximate)
C.   Composite Secondary Schools (extensions)        New Places
Cl        Toco                   16,620         192
(County St. David)
C2        Tabaquite              16,620         192
(County Caroni)
D.   Senior Secondary Schools (extensions)
D1        St. Augustine          31,390         164
(County St. George)
D2        Sangre Grande          31,270         324
(N.E. College)
(County St. Andrew)
D3        Point Fortin           32,180         304
(County St, Patrick)
D4        Signal Hill            23,000          42
(Tobago)
D5        Rio Claro              18,650          50
(County Nariva)
D6        S.E. Port of Spain     27,730          48
(County St. George)
E.   Teacher Development Centers
El        NCTDC Valsayn          30,300         n/a
(County St. George)
E2        Regional TDC
San Fernando           10,700         n/a
(County Victoria)


﻿-18-
PART II: Technical Assistance Program
The program of technical assistance consists of: (i) about 10
man/years of specialist services and 9.5 man/years of fellowships
for the purposes of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project; and (ii)
about 10 man/years of specialist services for project management.
The specific details of the technical assistance program are set
out below:
Total
in man/
Specialists                            1980  1981 1982    months
John S. Donaldson Technical Institute
Teacher Training Wing
1.   Specialist in Building Trades       4    12     6       22
2.   Specialist in Mechanical Trades     4    12     6       22
3.   Specialist in Electrical Instal-
lations, Air Conditioning and
Sanitary Installations            4    12     6       22
Sub Total                12    36    18       66
ECIAF
4.   Specialist Agricultural
Teacher Training                 12     -     -       12
Sub Total                12     -     -       12
Ministry of Education
5.   Specialist in Guidance and
Counselling                      12     -     -       12
Sub Total                12     -     -       12


﻿- 19 -
Total
in man/
Specialists                             1980  1981  1982   months
NCTDC
6.   Specialist in Organization
and Administration                 12     -     -       12
7.   Specialist in Curriculum
Development                       12     -     -       12
8.   Specialist in In-Service
Teacher Training                   -     3     3        6
Sub Total                24      3     3       30
Grand Totals              60    39    21      120
Project Management
Team               Total               48    48    24      120
Fellowships
John S. Donaldson Technical Institute
Teacher Training Wing
Teacher Trainers in:                          1980  1981   Total
1.   Administration and Supervision             6     -        6
2.   Machine Shop                               3     6        9
3.   Forge, welding, sheet metal                3     6        9
4.   Automechanics                              3     6        9
5.   Air conditioning, refrigeration            3     6        9
6.   Electrical Installations                   3     6        9
7.   Building construction                      3     6        9
8.   Plumbing and Sanitary Installation         3     6        9
Sub Total                       27    42       69


﻿-20-
1980 1981    Total
ECIAF
9.   Agricultural Teacher Trainers             9     9      18
Sub Total                  9     9      18
NCTDC (Publications Unit)
10. Editor                                     9     -       9
11. Printer                                    -     9       9
12. Publications Supervisor                    3     3       6
Sub Total                 12    12      24
Grand Total               48    63     111


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1983
through   January 15, 1994                   835,000
On July 15, 1994                                  795,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-22-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.60%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                       6.85%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Items of furniture and equipment shall be grouped so as to
permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound
technical and procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿-24-
B.   Local Competitive Bidding
All contracts for furniture and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $50,000 and all contracts for civil
works for primary schools shall be awarded after competitive
bidding based on local advertising in accordance with local
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided that
the total cost of furniture and equipment so procured shall not in
the aggregate exceed $450,000.
C.   Regional Preference for Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Trinidad and Tobago and countries which are members of the
Caribbean Common Market may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids,
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following four groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Trinidad and Tobago if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Trinidad and Tobago equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Trinidad and Tobago.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country (other than Trinidad and Tobago) which is
a party to the treaty establishing the Caribbean
Common Market and entitled to preferential treat-
ment thereunder.
(4) Group D: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 25 -
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all
group C or group D bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price
of the imported goods offered in each group C or group D bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal
to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group C and group D bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A or group C bid in such
further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
5.   If,. as a result of the comparison under paragraph 4
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group D, all group D bids
shall be finally compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group C, as determined under paragraph 3 above, after adding to
the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in each group D
bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount
equal to: (i) the difference between. the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which would actually be payable for the
importation of goods offered in such group D bid and for the
importation of goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such group
D bid, if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group C bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated
bid from group D shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
prequalification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The


﻿- 26 -
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
regional preference under Part D above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more and all contracts for
furniture and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery


﻿- 27 -
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
EPIU
EPIU shall report directly to the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Education and have the authority to liaise directly
with concerned departments within the Ministry of Education and
other agencies of the Borrower on all matters related to Project
execution. EPIU shall be responsible for, inter alia, arranging
for the selection, appointment and supervision of consultants;
preparation of architect's briefs; preparation of all procurement
and contract documents; ensuring timely availability of school
sites and assessing their suitability for construction; monitoring
project execution and costs; and liaison with the Bank. The
project management team shall assume such training and executive
functions as shall be required for EPIU effectively to carry out
its responsibilities in respect of the Project.
EPIU shall supervise the work of the engineering and archi-
tectural consultants to assure that the prescribed standards,
project cost parameters and objectives of the Project are being
met. With the assistance of the consultants, EPIU shall determine,
inter alia: (a) educational specifications and space standards for
preparing designs; (b) basic construction standards and building
materials to be used; and (c) unit costs for the project institu-
tions. EPIU shall establish technical review committees with
representatives from the concerned departments of the Ministry of
Education.


