Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21915
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24810)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 5.90 MILLION (US$ 8.03 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
MARCH 21, 2001
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 13, 2000)
Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira
Naira I = US$ 0.00923788
US$ 1 = Naira 108.25
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ECD                                 Early Child Development
DCPP                                Development Communiication Pilot Project
DflD                                Department for International Development (formerly ODA)
ETU                                 Education Television Unit
FME                                 Federal Ministry of Education
FMIC                                Federal Ministry of Information & Culture
ICB                                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                                 International Development Association
IFC                                 International Finance Corporation
LC                                  Letter of Credit
NGO                                 Non-Governmertal Organisation
NPEC                                National Primay Education Commission
NPEF                                National Prinmary Education Fund
NTA                                 Nigerian Television Authority
PPF                                 Project Preparation Facility
SAR                                 Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                                 Special Drawig Rights
UBE                                 Universal Basic Education
UNICEF                              United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo (AFR)
Country Director:    Mark D. Tonilinson (AFC 12)
Sector Manager:    Rosemary Bellew (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader:    Eileen B. Nkwanga (AFTH3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
CR. 2481-UNI
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  5
6. Sustainability                                                                      6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     7
9. Partner Comments                                                                    7
10. Additional Information                                                             8
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   9
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  10
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  12
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  13
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  14
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     15
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 16
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                            17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002156                                         Project Name: DEV. COMMUNICATION
Team Leader: Eileen B. Nkwanga                              TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: March 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: DEV. COMMUNICATION                              L/C,YTFJNumber: IDA-24810
Country/Department: NIGERIA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EY - Other Education; HY - Other Population,
Health & Nutrition
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/25/91                                  Effective: 11/29/93            07/01/94
Appraisal:  06/30/92                                   MTR: 10/30/96               06/10/97
Approval:  04/13/93                                  Closing:  12/31/98            06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementingAgency:  FEDERAL GOVERNNT/lvMIN OF INFORMATION THROUGH THE
NIGERIA TELEVISION AUTHORITY
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                            Kim Jaycox
CountryManager:       Mark D. Toilinson                          Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:       Rosemary Beilew                            Ian Porter
Team Leader at ICR:   Eileen B. Nkwanga                          Eileen B. Nkwanga
ICR PrimaryAuthor:   Brigitte Duces
Patricia Maughn-Colon - First draft
Brigitte Duces - Final author
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Development Communication Pilot Project (DCPP)was to pilot an
approach to promote early childhood development. The objectives of the pilot were to: (a)create an
institutional and infrastructure framework for educational television programming; (b) introduce replicable
models of education program development, monitoring and evaluation; (c) provide, disseminate and
reinforce instructional materials for preschool children; (d) sensitize parents to early childhood needs and
care; and (e) enhance care-givers' knowledge and competencies
Project objectives were responsive to the Government's National Policy on Education which
advocated the use of radio and television throughout the education system. Both Government and IDA
education sector policies acknowledged that early childhood education increases the probability of future
success in school, encourages cognitive development at a time when children are growing intellectually, and
provides opportunities for exposure to better nutrition and health habits. The objectives of the project were
clear, however there was a complex relationship between them such that achievement of one was dependent
upon prior achievement of others, For exarnple, production could not commence until the institutional and
infrastructural framework were in place. This demanded a high level of coordination and management and
ultimately resulted in under-achievement of objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained the same throughout the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had five components as follows:
I .    Provide Instructional Materials - This component aimed to air 130 hours of programming a year
produced by the NTA, purchased locally and intemationally; produce 130 television programs for a
children's series; and produce videos for pre-school children in English and three major languages. The
transmissions and videos were to be accompanied by print materials for caregivers. It was also expected
that other public agencies would buy air time to broadcast educational messages.
2.    Disseminate Instructional Materials - This component aimed to distribute and air videos through
the television network (increasing from one hour to three hours a week by project closing), through 10 local
viewing centers for low-income families accompanied by a facilitator (so that each child views a video once
a week increasing to three times a week by project closing), and through 5 video-on-wheels covering 5 to
10 centers a week for low-income rural children with a facilitator. Private schools that purchased the
printed materials would also participate in the video with facilitator program.
3 .    Train Caregivers - Caregivers of pre-school children were to be trained in the use of the videos and
accompanying print material. No target numbers to reach were set.
4.    Create an Institutional Framework - This was to be achieved by establishing a dedicated and
purpose-built Educational Television Unit (ETU) as part of the NTA, but not physically located with NTA
so that it did not get distracted from its main mission. Staff were also to be trained overseas and on-the-job
and supported with technical assistance that would transfer knowledge and know how. The project would
be directed by a steering committee and a working Committee of a minimum of a dozen members from
various backgrounds including technical assistance and representatives of all pre-school groups.
- 2 -



5.    Monitor and Evaluate - The project was to support formative, summative and impact evaluation of
the programs, as well as research on the impact of information on development, NTA transmission
problems, and the future development of ETU.
3.4 Revised Components:
Original Project components remained the same throughout the life of the project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was mixed.
Relevance -- The relevance of the strategies to develop ECD, namely educational television and
training of caregivers, are questionable in the Nigerian context given that only 28% of the rural population
had access to television whereas 75% had access to radio. The project would mainly benefit populations in
urban areas with already better access to private pre-schools. In the long term, the project may benefit the
most disadvantaged, but it is unlikely to do so in the medium-term. On the other hand, the concept of
developing a pilot to strengthen production television capacities for development communications and
pre-school education is appropriate where television penetration is expected to increase, provided there is a
sound plan for the use of the technology and skills over the long term. There is no question that television
can be a powerful tool for development. However, the use of IDA funding, given that there was a greater
need for upgrading of primary schooling needs to be questioned.
Knowledge base -- The knowledge base was slim. There was a community-based ECD pilot in
several locations managed by UNICEF. Evaluation results were available and showed significant
advantages in the cognitive, motor and social development of children in the program. A study was also
done to ascertain the penetration of television, including in the rural areas. This showed that regular TV
broadcasting would only reach a small percentage of the children. On that basis, the project design
included a provision for alternative methods of broadcasting. As a pilot, these were interesting to try,
although not very effective in reaching a broader target group.
Participation and Commitment -- This is largely a federal project, carried out with one agency of
the Federal government. For a pilot of this nature, which included training of acquisition of highly
technical nature and introduction of sophisticated equipment, this is not inappropriate. NTA and ETU
showed every evidence of commitment during the preparation process.
Implementation arrangements -- Detailed plans were made at the design stage for civil works,
procurement and training of project staff. The plans anticipated early commencement of procurement
actions for civil works and equipment which were among the effectiveness conditions of the project.
However, the staff of the ETU and NTA had no prior experience with Bank procedures which contributed
to implementation delays.
Lessons learned -- The PAD notes that the Bank did not have a specific policy on educational
television. Nevertheless, there had been experiences in Africa and none had been successful. The
document identifies the weaknesses -- high investment costs for low retums for very few already
advantaged children, lack of maintenance and sustainability, and no monitoring of access or evaluation of
results. The project addressed these weaknesses by focusing on reducing the investment and recurrent
costs, intending to monitor and evaluate the reach and results of the project, and including budgetary
requirements for equipment maintenance.
-3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemenl of objective:
On balance, the intended project outcomes/objectives were not achieved. While the project did
establish capacity for education programming and transmission by constructing a state-of-the-art
educational television studio and training staff, other objectives related to the development of replicable
models of program production and dissemination, accompanying print materials and capacity building of
caregivers were not achieved.
At the same time, it needs to be acknowledged that this was a pilot project, of an experimental
nature, where the outcomes are less certain than with a full scaling-up project. One of the main problem
was the over ambitiousness of the project design, with much greater expectations created of what was
achievable than was possible. Bringing in highly sophisticated technology and training staff in using and
creating programs with that technology clearly takes more time than was planned.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Develop Instructional Materials. The outputs planned were not achieved. Compared with the
original target of 130 episodes of pre-school programming, only 13 were acquired of Barney, Magic School
Bus, and CRO. They have been running since 1996 on the NTA Network. Several episodes of the ETU
produced program the "Fun Bus" were also produced. The NTA has one hour of instructional broadcasts
on its schedule compared with the three hours planned. Two of the five video-on-wheel units were
procured by the end of the project but have not reached the desired coverage yet. The accompanying print
materials were not developed.
The staff of the studio were trained and became knowledgeable and capable in educational
television. Production staff were trained in the latest techniques of the industry; management staff were
trained to develop a curriculum for children's programs, produced the first thirteen scripts for these
programs, identified target communities and schools where the programs will be utilized and where
caregivers will be trained.
Disseminate Instructional Material and Train Caregivers. The results expected were not fully
achieved. The NTA and ETU prepared a series of training videos for pre-school organizers, proprietors,
facilitators and trainers and some were purchased. However, the effort fell far short of the full complement
of videos envisaged, and the planned training for NGOs, caregivers and other caretakers was not
undertaken due to lack of Government counterpart financing.
Create an Institutional Framework. The project did create an institution for education television
and built technical capacity. The project constructed and equipped a dedicated purpose-built Educational
Television Unit. The unit is staffed by existing NTA production personnel who received relevant training
under the project mainly through study tours, overseas training, and on-the job training. A Steering and
Working Committee were established with responsibility for organizing the ETU and assisting it to execute
its functions. However, the studio was only completed towards the end of project, following long delays in
procurement and clearing the goods from the port. The Steering Committee rarely functioned. And, the
sustainability of the ETU is questionable since it never received the counterpart funds agreed and it
received no budget allocation at the end of the project to sustain its work.
Monitor and Evaluate. Achievements were partially satisfactory. A methodology for program
production was developed which included the testing and evaluation of the broadcasts and materials.
-4 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated for the Project.
4.4 Financial rate ofretzurn:
Not calculated for the Project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project resulted in better trained staff at the NTA from substantial training overseas (in the UK
and Czechoslovakia financed by the project for NTA staff. Training was carried out in television
production, curriculum development script writing, puppetry, project management, and computer
applications.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two factors may fall into this category. First, the macro situation continued to decline
dramatically over the project period which resulted in a steep devaluation of the Naira and high inflation.
This unfavorable environment resulted in counterpart under-financing. The impact on the project was
significant as counterpart funding was intended to finance consultants and local training which was mainly
the training of caregivers and facilitators. On the other hand, the exchange rate of the Naira to the dollar
was N7.5 at the time of project appraisal. By the end of the project, the rate had increased to about NI00
to the dollar. The project could have compensated for the shortfall in counterpart funding, but no
adjustments were made to disbursement percentages. Second, the project staff did not have the expertise
needed at project start up to fulfill the procurement related conditions of project effectiveness. This led to
a nine month delay in project start up.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three factors negatively affected project implementation. First, the Steering Committee,which
was responsible for the quality of the outputs of ETU and intended to promote collaboration with the
Ministry of Education, which was responsible for ECD, never became very active. Second, procurement
approvals and port clearances were held up for long periods of time which significantly delayed
implementation. The delays were so protracted that an intervention from the Head of State was required to
obtain the release of the goods from the port. Third, like all projects in Nigeria at the time, counterpart
funding was not released in the amount agreed nor in the time frame agreed. This resulted in the lack of
implementation of all software related activities that were to accompany the construction and equipping of
the television studio.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The lack of familiarity and experience with procurement procedures, as well as limited capacity on
the part of ETU, led to procurement delays and the lack of achievement of project objectives overall.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Of the total Credit of US$ 8 million equivalent, 97% was disbursed by project closing. Project
expenditure mirrored the achievements of the project. An estimated 95% of project expenditures financed
the construction and fumishing of the ETU studio and staff training. Project resources that were intended
to finance the production of a children's series, instructional materials and dissemination were reallocated to
the construction of the studio. Expenditure on civil works was 57% higher than estimated at appraisal.
- 5-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is uncertain without continued donor financing and support. The ETUINTA
has given thought to sustainability. The scenario envisaged is that once the ETU is in full production, it
will earn revenue from its products and from selling its services as a training provider to NTA staff and
other agencies within and outside Nigeria. It would also earn revenue from the sale of its videos, and
from production and editing services sold to other television companies and universities using its state of
the art equipment. It would acquire the status of a limited liability corporation which would enable it to bid
on projects financed by the private sector, government or donors. The ETU has been active in initiating
discussions with funding agencies to continue the pilot and its development towards an income eaming
enterprise.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
ETU activities under the Project have been an integral part of the NTA's program. NTA proposes
to proceed with plans for obtaining limited liability status for the ETU so that it can function fully as a
revenue earning entity. A detailed plan for sustaining the ECD activities of ETU has been developed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. ! Lending:
The Bank team conducted a review of similar projects to identify their shortcomings and lessons
learned. The team also identified major social problems reflected in Nigerian society which could be
addressed through televised messages for caregivers and parents. However, early childhood development
and educational television specialists were not brought into the team until the appraisal stage.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision effort was quite substantial considering the size of the Credit. Between
1993-1996, the task teaii leader was located in the field.. Following that, supervision missions were
undertaken three times a year. However, much time was spent on procurement and port clearing related
matters. Team composition may also not have been optimal. Since project appraisal, the team composition
did not include any specialist in educational television.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank gave assistance in addressing the problems and in working with the project team to find
solutions. Where the Bank failed is in giving technical guidance and in setting more realistic goals for this
pilot project. Bank performance should be considered marginally satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower showed considerable commitment and effort to meet effectiveness conditions,
including ensuring the required counterpart funds for the initial deposit, preparing the procurement
documents required, securing and surveying the construction site, producing the architectural design for the
studio, and preparing short lists for the staffing of the ETU and lists for staff training.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
NTA management were diligent in selecting a well qualified team for the ETU and in liaising with
the federal government to secure counterpart funding for the Project. Government agencies worked
-6 -



diligently to resolve the issues related to Project-fmanced goods and their exemption from taxes and duties.
A Presidential Waiver was obtained to clear some of the items which were held up at the port for this
reason. Nevertheless, counterpart funds were not forthcoming and the lack of procurement skills continued
to be a considerable problem during implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The core implementation team at the ETU executed their functions with considerable initiative.
Staff were competent, both technically in the broadcasting and program production, as well as in program
management. Financial management practice was satisfactory and the Project's reports were timely and
provided reliable information. Audit reports were also submitted on time. The ETU also selected local
consultants well.
7.7 Oierall Borrower performance:
The Project was implemented during a difficult period of drastic devaluation of the local currency,
political unrest and changes in local and federal administrations. Despite the considerable effort on the part
of the ETU, the objectives of the pilot were not achieved to a stage that would allow an assessment of
feasibility of continuing and scaling up its reach. Borrower perfonnance was marginally satisfactory
during this project.
8. Lessons Learned
Project implementation provided the following lessons of experience:
(a)    The use of television as a medium to provide distance leaming to a large numbers of pre-school
children is questionable, given the country's broadcasting reach.While television is an appropriate medium
for delivery of pre-school education, the size of the audience that can be reached in Nigeria is very limited.
It is likely that the children reached are among the most well-to-do, with already multiple other
pre-schooling opportunities. Poor children, especially in rural areas, without much access to pre-schooling,
would have extremely limited exposure to television and to these programs. It is questionable how relevant
the strategies (television and mobile videos) are for the poor. It is also not clear, how these programs could
be distributed more widely, and how poor families and children would come to know about them, even if
central points of distribution were to be set up. The alternative broadcasting solutions proposed in the
project are very costly, difficult to sustain and not likely to reach a sizeable population of children over a
wide geographic area.
(b)    The sustainability of a capacity building project such as this must be an integral part of the project
design The substantial investments in building and equipping the studio and in training the staff should
have been put into a medium-to-long term plan for use of these facilities, including considering
privatization of the studio. It is likely that facilities such as these cannot be satisfactorily maintained
through govenmment funds, and will become quickly obsolete if equipment is not continuously renewed.
(c)    The project should have carnied out an analysis of the cost-effectiveness of the proposed
interventions. Embarking uponthese investments, an analysis oftheeconomies of scale necessary forthe
cost-effective use of educational TV in Nigeria would be essential to determine the minimum size audience
required and whether it would it have been possible to achieve similar results with less costly altematives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
These are recorded in the Borrower's Report (Annex 8).
- 7-



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 8 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Im  act Indicators:
(a) the institutional and infrastructural  the studio will be completed, equipped and in the institutonal and infrastructural
framework for quality educational and  full use for production; an OB van and  framework has been fully developed; the
developmental television programming has   equipped video-on-wheels vehides will be   studio has been completed and equipped; a
been put in place;                    available;                             set has been constructed together with other
properties such as puppets; the OB van and
VOW are available; a pilot video has been
produced with clips for other scripts;
(b) replicable modalities of educabonal and  the introduction of the new model for  a model for program development,
social program development, monitorng and program identification, preparation and  production and evaluation has been
evaluation have been developed;       production will be complete;          introduced and is being applied; this
paradigm was introduced using formal
training locally and overseas, programming
workshops; scriptwriters workshops;
mini-pilot productions; research and M and E
design;
(c) instructonal materials for preschool aged videos will have been bought in and  three series have been bought in and
children provided, disseminated and   transmitted; local videos will have been  transmitted; local videos are under
reinforced;                           produced and disseminated              production;
(d) early childhood development promoted;   not estimated;                   early childhood development has been
promoted through television interviews on the
project;
(e) parents sensitized to early childhood    too early,                      not yet done;
needs and care;
(f) care-givers! knowledge and competencies too early.                       not yet done.
enhanced.
Output Indicators:
(a) develop a preschool children's program;  program developed fully;        program developed fully;
(b) write 13 program scripts;         13 scripts completed;                  13 scripts completed; a further 13 begun;
(c) produce the first pilot script;   first script produced;                first script produced;
(d) pilot the first pilot script;     pilot script tested;                   pilot script tested;
(e) transmit the pilot script;        pilot script transmitted;              not yet transmitted;
(f) produce a further 12 episodes;    an additional 12 episodes will have been  portions of these have been produced;
produced;
(g) disseminate 13 episodes;          5 episodes will have been disseminated;  not yet done;
(h) evaluate impact of the episodes.  an evaluation tool will be designed.   a tool has been designed.
End of project
-9-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Produce and Acquire Instructional Materials         2.12            0.18            8.5
2. Distribute Instructional Materials                  0.41            0.00             0
3. Provide Reinforcement of the Materials              0.05            0.00             0
4. Institutional Capacity Building                     4.93            8.54            173
5. Initiate and Test a Model                           0.48            0.05           10.4
Total Baseline Cost                                    7.99            8.77
Physical Contingencies                                0.80            0.00             0
Price Contingencies                                   1.44            0.10             7
Total Project Costs              10.23            8.87
Total Financing Required               10.23            8.87
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      1.78          0.00          0.00          0.00         1.78
(1.78)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.78)
2. Goods                      1.40          0.51          2.81          0.37         5.09
_____________________  (1.40)        (0.51)       (2.81)        (0.00)       (4.72)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          1.41          0.07         1.48
Research, Monitoring and     (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.41)        (0.00)       (1.41)
Evaluation
Technical Assistance          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
Training                     (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.12          1.76         1.88
. (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.12)        (0.00)       (0.12)
Total                      3.18           0.51         4.34          2.20         10.23
(3.18)        (0.51)       (4.34)        (0.00)       (8.03)
-1 0 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         2.79            0.00           0.01           0.00          2.80
(2.73)         (0.00)         (0.01)         (0.00)         (2.74)
2. Goods                         4.00            0.22           0.09           0.00           4.31
(3.99)         (0.22)         (0.08)         (0.00)         (4.29)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           1.52           0.00           1.52
Research, Monitoring and         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.76)         (0.00)         (0.76)
Evaluation
Technical Assistance             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
Training                         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.24           0.00           0.24
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.24)         (0.00)         (0.24)
Total                         6.79            0.22           1.86           0.00           8.87
(6.72)         (0.22)         (1.09)         (0.00)         (8.03)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping. consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
..  . .. 
1. Produce and acquire    2.72      0.00       0.00       0.24      0.20       0.00     8.8    0.0    0.0
instructional materials
2. Distribute instructional    0.26  0.00      0.26       0.34       0.00      0.00    130.8   0.0    0.0
materials
3. Provide reinforcement of   0.02   0.00      0.05       0.00       0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
the materials
4. Institutional capacity  4.65      1.39      0.00       7.40       0.49      0.00    159.1   35.3   0.0
building
5. Initiate and test a model    0.38  0.03     0.19       0.05       0.05      0.00     13.2           0.0
of production.
Duties and taxes          0.00       0.29      0.00       0.00       0.10      0.00     0.0    34.5   0.0
Total                     8.03       1.71      0.50       8.03       0.84      0.00    100.0  49.1    0.0
- 11 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
-12-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Perfonnance Rmang        ,
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation       Development
Month/Year      Count        Specialty                           Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
5/1991                           3    ISE, 100, IPO
8/1991                           7    1SE, IPOLSC, 100, IPO,
IFINMAN, 1SOCSC, ILIT
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/1992 Pre-appraisal             2    ISE, IPO
6/1992 Appraisal                 4    ISE, IPO, IECD, IETV
12/1992 Negotiation              4    IPE, 100, ICO, IDO
Supervision
9/1993                            1   IPE                                      S                   S
6/1995                            1   IPE                                      S                   S
5/1996                            1   IPE                                      S                   S
6/1997 MTR                        5   IPE, IPA, INGO, IHRECON,                 S                   S
IPOLSC
10/1997                           3   IPE. IPA, INGO                           S                   S
1/1998                            1   IPE                                      S                   S
6/1998                            4   IPE, 1HRECON, INGO,                      S                   S
ISFINMAN
9/1998                            4   IPE, 100, IHREC, IPA                     S                   S
2/1999                            2   IPE, IPA                                 S                   S
5/1999                            1   IPE                                      S                   S
10/1999                           2   IPE, IHREC                               S                   S
2/2000                            4   2PE, IEDCON, IFINMAN                     S                   S
5/2000                            4   IPE, lEDCON, lFINMAN,                    S                   S
IMANSPEC
ICR
9/2000                           3    IPE, IEDCON, lIMPSPEC                    S                   S
CO=Legal Counsel, DO-Disbursement Officer, ECD-Early Childhood Development,ETV=Educational TV, FinMan=Financial Management,
HRECON=Human Resource Economist, LIT=Literacy, MANSPEC=Management Specialist, NGO=NGO Officer, OO=Operations Officer,
PA=Procurement Analyst, PE=Principal Educator, PO=Project Officer, POLSC=Political Scientist, SE=Senior Educator, SFINMAN=Senior
Financial Management, SOCSC=Social Scientist. The TTL was in the Field Office from 03/1993 to 06/1996.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                     51                           175.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                          35                           116.0
Supervision                                    92                          305.3
ICR                                             5                            20.0
Total                                         183                          624.4
- 13 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ElI Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  O SU O M  O NI  OANA
Z Physical                                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
El Financial                               OH   OSUOM          N Al G NA
L Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                            O H  O SU OM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 OH  OSUOM  *N  O NA
Z Gender                            OH OSUOM *N ONA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  O SU OM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)                   O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Communications for development
- 14-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
OI Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
El Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
LF Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
El Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
ai Government implementation performance              O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
i7 Implementation agencyperformance                   O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  O HU
-15-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I.   The Baseline or Formative Research Study, 1996.
2.   The Program Content Research, 1998.
3.   The Site Identification Study, 1996/97.
4.   Network Transmission Research, 1998/99.
5.   ETU Operational and Financial Plan, 2000.
6.   Mid-Term Review Report, 1997.
7.   DCPP Staff Appraisal Report, No.1 1236-UNI, February 9, 1993.
8.   DCPP Development Credit Agreement, No.2481-UNI, July 30, 1993.
- 16 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report
I.    Project Design and Preparation Phase
Background: The Development Communication Pilot Project (DCPP), builds on the educational
and developmental obligations of the NTA, and the need, as had been done in some other developing
countries to use television to promote social messages, and introduce young children and illiterate adults to
"education" outside the formal environment of a classroom. Being a core social development project, the
DCPP was geared towards breaking social barriers, by ensuring that the content of educational
programmes produced by NTA is of relevance to children in both rural and urban areas.
Obiectives: The primary goal of the DCPP was to enhance the all-round development of
the Nigerian child, sensitize parents and child minders to the needs of children, and empower them
to provide necessary care for their children. The specific objectives of the project are to promote
early childhood development through the production of relevant entertainment-based educational
programmes, establish the infrastructure, and develop the manpower necessary for ensuring television
programmes of high educational and developmental quality; develop replicable forms of educational and
social oriented programmes that should serve as a model for others; and establish awareness on the
importance of monitoring and evaluation in television programming.
Project Preparation: The DCPP was the outcome of NTA's initial plan to produce a Nigerian
version of Sesame Street which could not be realised because of the enormous funds needed for the
execution of such a project. A meeting between NTA and the World Bank in 1988 led to a proposal by
NTA, seeking the World Bank's assistance to embark on the production of an educational programme
similar to "Sesame Street" but with content and format specific to Nigeria. Between 1990 and 1992, the
World Bank and NTA designed the project, and prepared the project documents, the major one of which is
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Inspection visits to NTA stations and facilities were undertaken by
World Bank staff and Consultants to appraise NTA's equipment needs, and the initial equipment
procurement list was drawn up. By the end of several appraisal missions the World Bank had become
convinced of NTA's capability, given the necessary infiastructure, to produce television programmes of
high professional standards.
Proiect Approval: Following negotiations in December 1992, the project was cleared by the
Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank. The Development Credit Agreement between the
International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank and the Nigerian Government was signed
on July 30, 1993. The participation agreement between the Federal Government and NTA was signed on
November 16,1993. Having met all the effectiveness conditions, the project was declared effective on July
1, 1994.
Funding: Total cost of project was estimated at the equivalent of US$ 10.23Million. Out of this,
the IDA provided a credit of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 5.9 Million which at the time of project
effectiveness amounted to US$ 8.03Milion. Being the implementing agency, NTA was to contribute
US$1.7Million equivalent in counterpart funding, while parallel financing of about US$500,000 was to be
sought from other agencies.
- 17 -



II.    Project Implementation Phase
The Credit amount was used to finance the following:
-     Civil works: land reclamation, piling and studio construction;
-     Studio equipment procurement, installation and maintenance;
-     Acquisition of relevant children's programmes;
-     Production of entertainment-based educational programmes with social messages,
-     Procurement of an Outside Broadcast Van and Video on Wheel units for distribution;
-     Staff training;
-     Provision of Consultant services, and
-     Research, Monitoring and Evaluation.
Civil Works: One of the major components of the project was civil works, which commenced
actively in 1995 with land reclamation and piling, before construction of the main building. The contract
for civil works was awarded to G. Cappa Plc, who sub-contracted various aspects of the contract.
Consultants were appointed to supervise civil works, and World Bank staff along with project
implementation staff regularly supervised the construction phase. The total contract sum for civil works
was N226,436,671.57.
One problem with the civil works contract was that the amount used for the contract was far higher
than what was allocated for it and this affected the funding of other components of the project such as the
provision of video equipment to private pre-schools and some viewing centers. Recently, cracks have been
noticed on walls in the main studio building and also on the perimeter fence. The attention of the
contractors and consultants have been drawn to this problem.
Studio equipment: The contract for the supply of studio equipment which was done by ICB, was
awarded to FOR-A UK Limited, for the sum of GBP 1,755, 933.47 in 1997. Severe setbacks to the project
occurred at various stages of the studio equipment procurement process. Initial delays was caused by series
of amendments that had to be made to the Letter of Credit (LC). Additional cause of delay was litigation
arising from the attempt by one of the equipment vendors, Steam Broadcasting, which made an
unsuccessful bid for the supply of studio equipment, to get the entire bidding process cancelled. The
attempt however failed as the Federal High Court decided the case in favour of NTA. Another setback
was the long period the studio equipment stayed at the Port in Lagos, though the NTA had initiated the
process of obtaining duty exemption from long before the equipment was shipped.
In all these Bank staff continually played an advisory role in resolving these problems and
intervened directly by meeting key Government officials. This was most useful in resolving the clearance of
studio equipment. However, the studio equipment supplier has still not fully completed the installation of
studio equipment, thus hindering studio production and editing. A few components have also not been
supplied. The company has promised to send an Engineer to conclude the installation and also conduct
training for technical staff.
Training: During project preparation period, the World Bank and NTA identified the training
needs for the project. Training is one aspect of the project that was very successfully implemented and this
has no doubt contributed to the overall manpower development of the NTA. Four programme development
workshops were held at various stages of project implementation under the leadership of two International
Production Consultants appointed for on-the-job training of production staff (1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998).
A final pre-production/refresher workshop was held in May, 2000 The workshop was led by the project
- 18-



co-ordinator, because of the refusal of the production consultants to conduct the final phase of the
production component of the project. Production activities commenced immediately after this workshop.
Formal overseas training for production staff, carried out at the Boumemouth University School of
Media Arts And Communication, U.K in 1997 also exposed the production team to current technology in
television production, and equipped them for their different roles in the production of a special children's
programme series of high professional quality. Indeed this has been achieved with the "FUN BUS," an
entertainment-based educational programme series designed under the project with its pilot episode over
80% complete. Puppeteers on the project were also trained in the Czech Republic in 1998, in the area of
puppet construction and manipulation which has yielded very fruitful results in the production of the pilot.
Members of project management also attended various overseas courses in their specialized areas which
enhanced their skills in project implementation. Of great importance is the fact that all production staff
who benefited from foreign training have also transferred skills to other project staff who did not enjoy
foreign training, and also other NTA staff.
One major setback in the area of training has been the inability of the graphic artists to operate the
highly sophisticated computer graphics equipment. The animation segments for the pilot had to be done
outside NTA. Computer graphics training is still outstanding and is being given urgent attention by project
management.
Provision of facilities: The project provided an opportunity of upgrading the production facilities
in NTA. The state of the art equipment procured under the project has positioned the NTA to better fulfill
its developmental mandate by producing programmes of high educational and entertainment quality. With
the equipment, NTA is also better placed to compete with the numerous television stations springing up in
Nigeria, by producing programmes of higher technical quality which hitherto could not be achieved because
of the poor state of facilities.
Research: During project implementation, various studies were carried out in line with project
design. These studies have enhanced project implementation by providing relevant data and necessary
feedback for the programme. These studies were all approved, and sometimes supervised by Bank staff:
-     A monitoring and evaluation consultant carried out a baseline research which determined
the needs of the target audience and obtained indicators for measuring the final impact of the project. This
study was satisfactorily conducted and findings have been incorporated into the programme;
*     Members of the DCPP production team conducted a programme content research to
ensure the production of programmes that are balanced in terms of content, and are relevant to the
multi-ethnic Nigerian society. During this research, cultural materials to embellish the content of scripts
for the programme series were also obtained folklore, information on cultural/tourist attractions, arts and
crafts, trade, fauna and flora, etc.
*     A site identification study, carried out by the former project co-ordinator and a World
Bank consultant, visited pre-schools in pilot states, identified their peculiarities and collected relevant data
to be used in determining viewing locations. All pilot states were satisfactorily covered;
*     A firm was contracted to conduct a research into NTA network transmission problems
and proffer solutions to these problems. Though completed, the study lacked depth and did not provide
proper insight into transmission problems, and;
- 19-



*     An operational andfinancial plan for the ETU, aimed at mapping out strategies for
sustaining the unit after World Bank funding, was conducted by a consultant. The plan was satisfactory
and will be very relevant in post-project operation of the ETU as a revenue-generating and self-sustaining
unit.
Use of consultants: Consultants were appointed at various stages of project implementation, for
different purposes. Two production consultants who were appointed for on-the-job training of the
production team in the areas of production, directing and script writing contributed immensely to the
development of the production team. Their international production expertise was an asset to the project,
and aided production staff in conceptualising a programme series such as the FUN BUS. The consultants
however turned down a request to conduct the fnal phase of the production component of the project
(pre-production workshop and production of the pilot episode), citing delays arising from the clearing of the
studio equipment and commitments to other assignments as excuses. A monitoring and evaluation
consultant who carried out the baseline research, also participated in programme workshops to ensure that
the findings of the research were incorporated into the programme. The role of the consultant in
determining the needs of the target audience helped in shaping the profile of the programme. An
educational consultant was also appointed on an adhoc basis, to advise on educational inputs into the
programme, and ensure the relevance of educational materials in line with National standards on education.
This consultant, who also participated in programme workshops played a vital role in deternining the
educational content of scripts for the programme series. A firm was contracted to carry out aesearch into
NTA network transmission problems and suggest ways of solving these problems. The study was aimed at
finding ways to improve NTA's network coverage but the study was not satisfactorily conducted and thus
did not actually proffer solutions for network transmission. Afinancial consultant was also contracted to
carry out an operational and financial plan for the ETU, aimed at guiding the ETU in operating as a
sustainable unit, was satisfactorily completed.
Ac(uisition of children's programme: Some relevant children's programmes were acquired for
transmission under the project, before commencement of production by the DCPP production team.
Thirteen (13) episodes each of Barney, CRO and Magic school bus were procured for transmission on the
network service of the NTA and have been running since 1996. These programmes, which are similar to the
FUN BUS in structure and content, have sensitized viewers, especially the target audience, to the kind of
programme which the ETU will produce for transmission in the very near future.
Appointment of Project Co-ordinator: A new project co-ordinator was appointed for the DCPP
in October, 1999, following the departure of the former project co-ordinator from NTA. The present
co-ordinator has a background in educational television production and management.
III.   Lessons Learned
The initial delay in project effectiveness was to have a spill-over effect in project implementation.
Subsequently, the project had to be extended for a period of 18 months, first extended by one year to
December 31, 1999, and further extended by 6 months to June 30, 2000, which marked the terminal life of
the project. However, several lessons were learnt during project implementation that have been either
positive or negative to the project, in the following areas:
- 20-



Role of research, monitorin! and evaluation: The role of monitoring and evaluation in the
implementation of this project brings to the fore, the various forms in which research can be used to
enhance the production of high quality television programmes. The various studies conducted under the
project contributed positively to the implementation of the project. Feedback from research were
incolporated into scripts for the programme series, and research findings will still be used for future
productions. For instance, the content of scripts was highly enriched by findings of the programme content
research. Also, the baseline research which determined the needs of the target audience, helped in shaping
the profile of the programme. In all, the use of research in enhancing the use of television for social
development was witnessed under the DCPP.
Benefits to tareet audience: The lessons leamed during the implementation of the DCPP will be
incomplete without stating the benefits that the target audience (pre-school children and care-givers) will
derive from the programme, FUN BUS. It is expected that the target audience will benefit from watching
the entertainment-based educational programme series, and will also learn from the social messages and
various tit-bits on hygiene, environment, social behaviour, etc. Also, the programme will have a positive
effect on children's early learning.
Fulfillment of NTA's developmental mandate: The design and implementation of the DCPP was
in line with NTA's developmental mandate which states that 15% of netwoik programmes should be for
developmental purposes. The project is expected to have a positive effect on the use of television in the
dissemination of information for development and for the education of a wide population.
Civil works: During the design stage of the civil works, input into the studio design should have
been sought from the end-users of the studio. For instance, there is no direct access into the studio by a
wide entrance, which is preposterous, for such a modem building. The main entrance into the studio is
through the scenery workshop. Also, the quality of the construction is suspect as already, several cracks
have been noticed on walls in the main studio building and on the perimeter fence.
Project administration: The structure of project administration with respect to project staff was
not in conformity with the NTA hierarchical structure. An instance where the former project co-ordinator,
who was junior to her counterparts in engineering and finance, was made to head the project did not augur
well for project implementation. This resulted in the lack of team-work hitherto experienced in project
implementation. In future, the management of such a project should conform with the structure of the
implementing agency.
Irreeular Bank statements: One factor that hindered early reconciliation of accounts between the
Bank and the project was the irregular receipt of Bank statements being sent to the project. The Bank
should therefore devise a means of sending prompt and regular statements to projects which will in turn
enhance early reconciliation of accounts.
Counteroart fundine: Another factor that hindered project implementation during the later phase
was the anomalous nature of the release of counterpart funding for the project by both the Federal
Government and the NTA. Even in cases where funds were released, they were irregular, and thus delayed
the implementation of certain components of the project being funded locally. In spite of these constraints,
project implementation continued without major hindrances.
- 21 -



IV.   Operational Phase
The DCPP, which terminated as a project on June 30, 2000, was expected to culminate in the
establishment of an Educational Television Unit (ETU) within the NTA. The ETU is deemed to have
entered its operational phase, with the following activities being proposed:
Completion of pilot episode: The pilot episode of FUN BUS, which is already over 80%
complete, is being held up because of the state of studio facilities which have not become operational.
Already, all location segments not involving the use of the bus have been recorded and construction of the
studio set has also been completed. Producers have identified and selected artistes, and the theme and mood
music have for the pilot episode has been commissioned. As soon as the studio equipment becomes fully
operational, the production of the pilot episode will be completed within a few weeks.
Pre-test of the pilot: A pre-test of the pilot episode will be conducted, to obtain feedback which
will be used for the production of subsequent episodes of the programme.
Production of trainina videos: The ETU will embark on the production of training videos for
distribution to preschools and trainers. These videos will promote the development of children's
communication and language skills, importance of good health and nutrition, enhancement of cognitive and
social skills by creating a healthy learning environment, and how to monitor children's activities. The
production of these videos is being delayed by the non-completion of the pilot episode and commencement
of full production.
ETU as a limited liability company: There is a proposal to register the ETU as a limited liability
company, to enable the unit become self-sustaining and revenue-generating. Already, a business plan has
been developed for the operation of the ETU.
Collaboration: As part of a wide range of activities being proposed to generate revenue for the
unit, plans are underway to collaborate with UN agencies for the production of developmental programmes
and social messages.
Commercial use of studio facilities: It is being proposed that the unit will undertake television
production training for independent TV stations within Nigeria and from other African countries. This will
enable the unit to generate revenue in Naira, and foreign currencies. Also, the unit will provide production
and editing facilities on a commercial basis.
Sale of spin-offs: Borrowing from the Children's Television Network (CTW) revenue generation
approach, there will be sale of various spin-offs from the programme. Items such as school bags, lunch
boxes, T-shirts and pencil cases will be produced for sale.
Communication education: The unit will participate in communication education through the
distance leaming programme and the Federal Government's Universal Basic Education (UBE) programme.
V.    Conclusion
In spite of not being fully implemented as at June 30, 2000, when the credit closed, the DCPP
deserves high success rating. It is a trail-blazer in projects of its kind and holds huge promise and potentials
- 22 -



as a catalyst for effective children programming not only for NTA but for Nigeria. It is anticipated that in
the operational phase, a lot more progress will be made and the main objectives for which the project was
established achieved. Already, stakeholders are being sensitized and response from them has been
enthusiastic. By the time it has fully taken off, the impact of the project will be reflected in:
(a) the transfer of needed managerial;
(b) technical and artistic skills;
(c) the deployment of adequate manpower and infrastructure;
(d) the enhancement of socio-cultural development of the target audience;
(e) complementing governments' educational and literacy programmes, and;
(f) its economic viability and ability to sustain itself.
- 23 -






MAP SECTION






CHAD
BURKINA~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLS    04  6  00                                            -CTTEhUadIE 
FASO                    KATUNA                                  Yobe R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ITRNTINA  OUDAE
'0~~~~~~~P                                                                                                             N
040                                                                                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~KOY B
MAIDUGUFJ~~~~~'



