DocuM t of
The World Bank
FOR OPTICIAL USE ONLY
Reuut No. P-5891-lUI
*E10RAl!Dl AND RECOMENDATION
OF TBE
PRESIDENIT OF THEI
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EaECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 5.9 MILION
TO THE
DERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR I
DEVEOPIENT COMMU!-MTION PILOT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 9, 1993
I, -p: X t NtiI.: F - .5' C -   TIJNY   I  yTv3s   m' 
Ii : 1    : r  I :v1-: i  M   .  i   ' i    {i]  '   V |    i     J;
Ex t .~   K- ,,Y4 Pc-3< !)J '   (j ( ilf'iL*er t :ADr ,F u,
This document has a restricled distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Boak authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Deownber, 1992
Currency Unit: Naira (N)
JS$1.O0 = N19.56
ABBREVATON AND ACRONYMS
BVL                 Benmard Van Leer Foundar^i
ETU                 Education Television Unit
ETV                 Educational Television
FMEYD               Federal Ministry of Education and Youth Development
FMIC                Federal Ministry of Infmation and Culture
IFESH                n ational Foundation for Education and Self-Help
NERDC               Nigerin Educational Research and Development Council
NTA                 Nigerian Television Authority
OMEP                Organstion Mondiale pour l'Education Prcolaire
UNICEF              United Nations' Children's Fund
SCHOOL YENAR
September 1 - July 31
1SCI EAR
January I to December 31
EDUCATION SYSTEM
Primary                    Grades I to 6
Junior Secondary           Grades 7 to 9
Senior Secondary           Grades 10 to 12
University Education       Grades 13 to 16
Teacher Education          Grades 13 to 14/15
Technical Education
& Vocato   Training        Grades 13 tD 14/15
MEDA AVAILABILXlrY AND COVERAGE
Newspapers: 55 Newspapers covering 30% of the population
Radio: 11.4 milion homes with radio sets, covering 75% of populaion
TV: 31 stadons; 3 milion TV sets; reaching 36% of populain



FOR OMCaL USE ONLY
FEEDERAL, REPUB,C OFs NIGERIA
DEVLOPMENr COINICATION PILOTr PROJECr
Credit and Poject Sumnpary
Brrwer:    Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneflciaris: Niterian Television Authority.
Amount:      SDR 5.9 million (US$8.03 million equivalent)
Ts=:         Standard, with 35 years maturity.
-inancD8g Plan:
Foreign        Tota
(US$ million)-
IDA                                    2.57             5.46           8.03
NTA                                    1.71             0.00           1.71
UNICEF, BVL                            0.14             0.35           0.49
Total                 4.42             S123
Economic Eat
of Retun:       Not applicable
Staf Appaisal
R:              Report No. 11236-UNI
Mar:            IBRD 24280R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION 3F THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSIED CREDIT
TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for SDR 5.9 million, the equivalent of
US$ 8.03 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years to help finance a Development
Communication Pilot Project. The project would pilot a method to support early childhood education
through the development, production and distribution of video-taped and printed instructional
materials; training of qualified production staff; institution building for better facilitation and care
giving; and research. Part I of the document discusses Nigeria's development problems and
prospects, the key !'riorities of the economic reform program at the macroeconomic and sector levels,
and the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part I of the document describes the proposed Credit.
L COUNTRY POUCJFS AND BANK GROUP ASSISANCE STRATEGY
2.     This section describes Nigeria's policies and development objectives and the Bank Group's
assistance strategy. The underlying assistance strategy is broadly unchanged from that presented to
the Board in mid-1992. But the presentation has been updated to rehect recent economic and political
developments in Nigeria and actions taken to improve portfolio management. The section first
summarizes recent developments and Nigeria's central development issues. A discussion of the status
of the policy dialogue and the Bank's country assistance strategy follows. The section concludes with
a summary assessment and a description of the criteria for evaluating progress in key policy areas.
A. Trends In Policies and Perfonnance
1. BadWound
3.     Nigeria is the largest country in sub-Saharan Africa, conaining some 20 percent of the
region's population. Its wealth of natur resources-including major oil and gas deposits-vibrant
private sector, and large labor force and market endow it with considerable economic potential.
When Nigeria became independent in 1960, it inherited institutions, ways of thinking, and processes
that have evolved into robust professional associations, an inquisitive press, a cultural commitment to
freedom, and a competent bench and bar. But it also inherited ethnic and regional tensions that
reflected the colonial artificiality of Nigeria's borders and constituencies. The underlying realities of
Nigeri's political economy, where ninety percent of foreign exchange derives from crude oil exports
and is shared among three levels of government in an effort to balance often conflicting interests
across the federation, have a major Impact on the formulation of economic policies-with at times
inconsistent results. This political economy helps to explain why despite so much potenial Nigeria
and its people remain poor. R provides the context in which efforts to accelerate the country's
development have to be pursued.
4.     Oil Boom and Bust. The oil boom of the 1970s financed massive increases in public
investment. These were designed to increase the economy's productive capacity and hunan capital
and heal the wounds of the Civil War that had ravaged the country in the late 1960s. But many of
the investments were undertaken without sufficient attention to their economic viability. In addition,



-2 -
the rapid growth of the public sector raised relative prices for nontradables and undermined the
Countr'g non-oil export base in cocoa, groundnuts, and cotton. When the oil market weakened in the
early 1980s, the Government continued spending. Foreign debt accumulated, including sizable trade
arrears. Ih late 1983, a new military government imnposed fiscal austerity, characterized by across-
the-board budgetary cuts and administrative restrictions on imports and foreign exchange usage. The
austerity measures reduced the fiscal and external deficits, but failed to address the economy's
structura weaknesses. The latter included the legacy of sustained agricultural decline, an
uncompetitive, import-dependent manufacturing sector, and a cumbersome regulatory framework.
Uneven implementation notwithstanding, the measures exacted a heavy economic toll. They a!so
proved politically unsustainable.
2. Recent Developments
a. Economic
5.     Structural AdjuM eProgrm. On coming to power in mid-1985, the Babangida
Goverment declared its intention to move from "austerity alone to austerity with structura
adjustment". With a firther c Ulapse in oil prices adding urgency, in 1986 fhe Government adopted a
farreaching reform program and, in parallel, a multi-year transition program for the return to civilian
rule. The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) combined exchange rate and trade policy refurms
aimed at revitalizing the non-oil economy, with stabilization policies designed to restore balance of
payments equilibrium and price stability. The SAP emphasized downsizing the public sector and
improving the efficiency of public asset management. Import licenses were eliminated, the
rcutural marketig boards were eliminated, price contols were lifted, and the deregulation of the
banking system was initiated.
6.     Exchane and Trade Refpns. Ihe SAP's exchange rate and trade reforms remain basically
intact, although they have been unevenly implemented over the past six years. The foreign exchange
reforms facilitated a cumulative depreciation in the real effeudve exchange rate of 104 percent
between September 1986 and August 1992. Iitially an auction system, an inter-bank market now
govers foreign exchange transactions. Other reforms, such as the creation of domiciliary accounts,
abolition of surrender requirements, and the licensing of bureaux de change, improved incentives for
the rearation of foreign exchange receipts from non-oil exports and other activities. The tariff
reforms that accompanied the SAP reduced somewhat the cascading of protection that had encouraged
assembly operations based on imorted raw materias and other inputs.
7.     Private Investment. Since the adoption of the SAP, the government has taken steps to
encourage efficient private sector development. It has simplified the regulatory eAvironment for
private investment, reduced limitations on foreign investment, and intrduced a debt equity conversion
program. Nevertheless, major consaints to private sector development remain. These include a
cumbersome tegulatory framework that raises the cost of doing business in Nigeria, and an incentidre
structure that favors domestic production over exports and shorterm acivities over long-term
investment. Nor has the erratic provision of crkical infrastructure services, such as power Wnd
telecommunications, been supportive of private sector actvity, reflecting ongoing difficulties with the
management of public utilities. The investment response on the part of the private sector, both
foreign and domestic, has been muted due to, inter alia, unstable macromanagement and considerable
political uncerainty.



-3-
8.     Financial Se=. An importar., start has been made on much-needed financial sector and
monetary policy reforms. Intermittent reversals notwithstanding, interest rates and spreads have been
largely deregulated. A new Banking Act enacted in 1991 introduced stricter supervision and
provisioning requirements, and there has been considerable progress in meeting the new requirements.
(However, in the last year there has been a proliferation of "sectoral banks" and other non-bank
financial institons that fall outside the purview of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) super:ision and
regulation.) While the CBN and the National Deposit Insurance Corporation have begun to address
the difficult task of restructuring banks with non-performing loans, considerable uncertainty remains
concerning the eventala closure of some of these banks and the financing of the restructurings. The
recent decision to securitize state government debts to state-owned banks constitutes a first step
*           toward addressing the latter's serious portfolio problems. Meanwhile, the Federal Government is in
the process of divesting its equity participation in commercial and merchant banks.
*           9.     Public Entrrse Manag      . The SAP also included public enterprise reform. Some 86
enterprises have been privatized, mostly through public offers-or deferred public offers-on the
Nigerian Stock Exchange. Although this is an important achievement, the planned privatization of
several large enterprises has been delayed. Less success has been achieved with the
commercialization program. Eleven parastatals were slated for full ccmmercialization. In some
cases, performance contracts, including a 10-year corporate plan, are being signed. However, only
limited progress has been made with the partial commercialization of the Nigerian Electric Power
Authority (NEPA) and the commerciization of the Nigerian Telecommunications (NITEL).
nstiuion-building efforts and :he creation of appropriate regulatory frameworks have stalled. In the
meantime, service delivery remains intemitt, raising operating costs to public and private sector
u3.rs alike.
10.    Public    nd     anagement. The SAP also aimed to improve public expenditure
planning and budgetary proct,,ures, including the adoption of a rolling plan process. However, these
reforms did not adequately deal with deep-rooted weaknesses in public expenditure management.
Reversals in the stance of fiscal policy have jeopardized the sustainability of the reform process and
introduced unceainty ta has delayed the recovery of private investment. Since 1990, increased off-
budget spending and continued financing of non-viable investment projects have eroded fiscal and
monetary discipline. The temporary revenue windfall accruing from the jump in oil prices, associated
with the Gulf crisis, saw the re-emergence of large-scale spending of oil revenues through so-clled
"dedication accounts" and other devices outside the purview of the statutory budgetary and accounting
framework. Nor were these expenditures directed at basic social services and inastructure designed
to meet the needs of the majority of the people.
11.    Stabilization Policies. The overspending through extrabudgetary outdays left its mark. The
federal deficit worsened from 2.8 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6 percent in 1991. (See Box 1.)
Although the Government initially saved much of the foreign exchange earnings from the oil windfall,
the naira counterpart funds were largely spent. The money supply grew rapidly, prompting strng
downward pressure on the naira and a steady increase in the rate of inflation. During the first nine
monts of 1992, m    nomic and financial imbalances increased further. The fiscal deficit
widened, the rate of growth of the money supply increased, and extrnal reserves dwindled. Inflation
accelerated to an estimated average rate of 49 percent CBN efforts to teduce excess liquidity in the
banking system temporarily led to a doubling in interbank and prime lending rates. But this was
insufficient to offset the expansionary impact of fiscal policy. Ite current account is expected to
have deteriorated in 1992 to an estimated deficit of 0.6 percent of 3DP, primarily due to a decline in



- 4 -
the terms of trade. With the expiration of the Paris Club agreement in March 1992, significant
arrears to official creditors have accumulated.
Box 1. Ecnwmc Iricatoars
..Actuat  V---     s.     --POjeted
1989   1990   1991   192     1993    194     99
Oroas Iomee~c Prouct ( patN)  6.71    5.62   5.11    .1     43      .1     36
W.~~~~.<
*fl Sector    ~ ~ ~ -   : 15.1X  5.51"   4.51X   1.41- 4.0:: 4.0  4-0
^>#;u    :.;...    : ..p  4.81s  1.    --3.7 122    -1.3-: -1.5 X     5-4-m.5  341.X:
12.      at of th4 SAP on the Real Economy.  Difficulties in implementation and overspending
notwtiding, the SAP's policies hwe produced results. Real 8-DP grow by about S percent per
anmun between 1986 and 1992, pimarily reflect3ng a   recovery in agculture and   mi.g
Mere as is eence of growth in nontdional exrts. lhis hs be  associaed with a
realignment in the strucur of consumption and production to be more consistnt with Nigeria's
fictr endowments. Some of the earlier anti-5xort bias in     rhas dippeared, and
producers have swmtcend from imported to loca ipts. There is now greater use of locally produced
mater*, particutarly in agro processing an textle         . Following a SAP-related shif in
relatve prices in favor of the mral sector, net cashcrop exports revived, as did the producton of
traditional ood crops. Aginculthal output has grown at an average rate of a percent per ammm singe
1987. Cocoa production, like cotton and othier export crops, had almost come to a halt prior to ;he
SAP, due  ig the overvalued exchange rate, the markestng boards, and low producer pries but,
between 1986 and 1990, output increased by 122 percetn   in volume iari. rood production has
shown a similar upswing; Nigeriom s fod import bill is now  one-fi gRh of its 1986 leovel.



-  -
13.     Shontterm EcoQomic Qudook. The recentdy announced 1993 budget highlights the need for
concerted efforts on stabilization policies and medium-term strictural reforms to establish the
foundations for sustainable economic growth. To this end, the budget speeches by the newly
appointed Chairman of the Transitional Council (see para. 18 below) and Minister of Finance
indicated the intention to formulate a medium-term strategy to be presented to the incoming civilian
administraton. Emphasizing the need for a transparent budget process, they announced steps towards
institutionalizing more comprehensive revenue and expenditure controls. The budget aims for a
deficit of around 5 percent of GDP in 1993. In the absence of significant revenue resources-from
subsidy reductions and other sources-achieving this goal will require meeting very stringent
expenditure targets. If implemented, such fiscal stabilization efforts would likely bring with them a
moderate slow-down in non-oil GDP growth, but prospects for agriculture and oil-related activities
would remain positive. On these assumptions, GDP growth is projected to average 4 percent over the
next few years, before gradually recovering after 1995.
b. Social
14.    Pove. Although the SAP has revived growth, that growth has so far been insufficient to
compensate for the large drop in purchasing power associated with the collapse of international oil
markets Per capita income is currently below US$300, down from US$1000 in 1980. In real per
capita terms, consumption and income are now no higher than they were in the early 1970s, prior to
the onset of the oil boom. Basic social indicators place Nigeria among the 20 poorest countries
worldwide. Infant mortality rates are around 100 per 1000 live births; half of all children aged 2 to 5
show signs of persistent malnutrition; and only about two-thirds of the relevant age group are enrklled
in primary schools-down from 90 percent in the early 1980s. Meanwhile, population is growing by
2.9 percent per anmum, outstripping the capacity to provide bisic education and health services and
worsening social conditions.
15.    Social Sector Policies. The Government has adopted comprehensive and far-sighted policies
for education, health and population. These policies accord preference for the promotion of health
and education services at the primary over the tertiary level; provide access to universal primary
education free of charge; encourage adoption of cost recovery measures in health care; and aim to
improve the health of women and children through birth spacing. The devolution of programmatic
responsibilities for the delivery of primary social services to the Local Government Authorities
(LGAs) presents new opportunities for the strengthening of administrative capacities. However,
without a commensurate increase in budgetary provisions, notably for recurrent over capitai
expenditures, and, within recurrent budgets, for supplies, insufficient funding will remain a critical
constraint on implementation.
16.    Women in Nigeria. While some women play a dynamic role in political and economic life in
parts of the country, women generally tend to be seriously disadvantaged, particularly in rural areas.
Legal, cultural, and social barriers limit their access to land, credit, farming inputs, technology, and
support services and constrain their earning capacity. They spend long hours on low output,
physically demanding activities such as water and fuel wood transport, manual crop processing, and
headloading of farm produce, in addition to their responsibilities for household and family
maintenance tasks. They are often illiterate and poorly nourished and face extreme health risks
because of frequent pregnancies starting at a young age.



-6 -
c. Environmental
17.    Soil igWdato W=         ta tion. and Deforestati. -lhe diversity of Nigeria's
climatic zones and ecology terms translates into a host of environmental issues. On a nationwide
basis, the three most important problems are soil degradations water contamination, and deforestation.
Unaddressed, these and other environmental problems could cost the economy an estimued US$5
billion pec annum ovxr the long-term. Many of the problems are direcdy related to rapid population
growth, which has been reducing the viability of traditional land-extensive farming systems. The
result has been exhausted soils and continuing loss of forest cover. Soil degradation affects about 50
million people and could have long-term impact in excess of US$3 billion annaly. Surface and
groundwater contamination-and in urban areas, problems of solid waste disposal-is strongly
associated with increased health risks and reduced productivity; 40 million people are potentially at
risk if ground and surface water contamination continues unchecked. Deforestation-which has been
proceeding at the rate of 2.2 percent per year-is resulting in the loss of the services from and
sustainable production of wood and non-wood products (foods, spices, medicines) used by
neighboring populations. More broadly, deforestation affects soil and water retention; these losses
raise economic costs associated with flooding, sedimentation, etc. It also jeopardizes wildlife and
biodiversity, and increases the time rura women must spend gathering firewood. To address these
and other environmental problems, the Government has formulated a National Environmental Policy
and established an Ecological Fund, aimed at promoting sustainable development. Specific projects
and programs are now being developed.
d. Political
18.    Eletions. Nigeria's transition program to civilian rule involves a comprehensive-and
expensive-program to elect local, state and federal government assemblies and executives. The basic
steps of what has been a very complex undertaking have now been implemented. The elections of
local and state executives and constituent assemblies were successfully completed in 1991. Newly-
elected state governors assumed their positions in 1992, and the members of the National Assenmbly
were swom in early in 1993. Following widespread difficulties in the primary process, the
installation of the President-the final stage of the transition program to civilian rule-has been
postponed, with elections now scheduled for June and inauguration for August 1993. During this
extended transition period, a civilian Transitional Council, which includes a number of people with
extensive experience in the private sector, is overseeing government policy and the implementation of
the 1993 budget.
19.    Decentralization. The transition program has been accompanied by changes in Nigeria's
federal system. These changes have included increased responsibilities of local govermnents for the
provision of certain social services and the creation of new states. The devolution of power is
intended to increase government responsiveness to local needs and to promote participatory
development To support implementation of these changes, federal revenue allocation arrangements
have been modified over time, to increase the shares allocated to local governments and oil producing
regions, principally at the expense of state governments. As a visible signal of the administration's
commitment to Nigeria's federal character, President Babangida formally inaugurated Abuja as the
new federal capital in late 1991. This action, though of great symbolic and political importance, has
had high costs. Most government decision-making has shifted to Abuja. However, with housing and
infrastructure facilities in short supply in Abuja and parts of many ministries remaining in Lagos-and
weak telecommunications and transport facilities connecting Abuja and Lagos-interagency co-
ordination and implementation of government policy have suffered.



-7
3. Portfolo Management
20.   Portoio Profll. Since 1958, Nigeria h w received ninety-five IBRD loans totalling
US$6,082.7 million and eleven IMA credits totalling US$751 million. Of these, 43 operations are
still under implemention. Based on OED satisfactory/unsatisfactory ratings of closed projects,
Nigeria's performance ranks at almost the bottom of all countries. In the 43 projects in the current
portfolio, 44 percent have problems, and the average portfolio rating is 2.47. (See Box 2.) This too
puts Nigeria's performance near the bottom of all active borrowers.
Box 2. Implementaton Indicateors
21. Chronic PolMbenf. Project implementation has long been very slow in Nigeria. Inaequate
wunewpart fding, cumbesome procurernent procedures, delays in ta 3g decssion on crtical
project sues, and logistical .nd istional complications have perennially bedeviled.
efforts. The sharp increase in new commitments for investment lending in FY89-91, coupled with
firly constant disbursement rates of below US$250 million annually, has resulted in a large build-up
of undisbursed fiuds in the project portfolio, to US$2.7 billion currently.
22.    Growing         T. he increasing pre-occupation of the Governme.at with the transition
to civhlian rule and the changls in the federal system have aggravated the long-standing
implementation difficulties. 'The increase in the number of states (from 21 to 30 in August 1991) has
stalled some projects, as the splitting of assets and project management issues have not yet been fully
resolved. Weak management units have been distracted by the changes in state leadership. Slippages
in the implementation of the commercialization/privatization process are retarding the performace of
public utility projects in the portfolio. Meanwhile, the reallocation of responsibilities among the three
levels of government, and a comprehensive reorganization of the ministerial structure coupled with
the ongoing relocation of federal govermnent functions to Abuja have surfaced as additional
impediments for project implementation. Despite this deterioration in the overall climate for project
implementation, increased supervision efforts and the progress in implementing the Oso Condensate
Project ahead of schedule contributed to a significant increase in FY92 disbursements.
B. External Environment
23.   bnact of Extemal Pevelge= The Ni ,erian economy is highly exposed to price
fluctons in world oil markets and, albeit to a mrach lesser extent, to economic developments in



- 8 -
neighboring countries. Another key parameter with both domestic and external dimensions to affect
Nigeria's economic development over the medium term concerns the evolving prospects for a
comprehensive solution to its exten  debt overhang.
24.    EAteAa Indebtedness. During the SAP, Nigeria's net transfer position has been persistently
negative, averaging 4.5 percent of GDP per annum between 1986-92 for a cumulative total of US$11
billion. Nonetheless, over this period, Nigeria's stock of medium- and long-term external debt has
doubled, from US$14.6 billion at end-1985 to US$30 billion by end-1992. This increase was
principally due to a combination of cross-currency revaluations, tecognition as public debts of a large
stock of private trade arrears incurred in the early-1980s, and the capitalization of interest through
successive rescheduling agreements. Notwithstanding a recently completed debt and debt service
reduction (DDSR) agreement with the commercial banks, Nigeria's total debt service burden, two-
thirds of which is due to official creditors, will remain virtually unchanged between 1993-1997.
While there is growing recognition among official creditors that continued reschedulings on
conventional terns will not provide Nigeria with a sustainable solution to its debt vroblem, the
deteriorating performance in macromanagement, particularly the lack of fiscal transparency, the
absence of a medium-term economic reform program, and the sheer size of Nigeria's debt stock are
impediments to progress toward debt and debt service reduction. At the same time, even though
Nigeria's status as a low-income country was recognized when it was declared IDA eligible in 1988,
the historical trend of very low levels of concessional bilateral support continues. Concessional aid
flows thus have not been a factor in mitigating Nigeria's difficult negative net transfer position. This
underscores the importance for the Transitional Council to demonstrate credible action on stabilization
and structural reform issues, in order to create an environment that is more conducive for Nigeria to
secure a sustainable solution to its external debt problem.
25.    f.t.rreum. Oil receipts, which account for 95 percent of Nigeria's export value and 80
percent of federally collected revenue, have been subject to widely fluctuating world market prices in
recent years. According to World Bank projections, the market outlook is for prices to decline
slightly in real terms in 1993, and to remain unchanged over the medium-term, with any increase in
global demand being more than offset by increases in supplies from OPEC and non-OPEC sources.
Should the UN embargo on Iraqi oil exports be lifted, the increase in world production would
generate considerable downward pressure on prices. (rhis forecast is based on an expected increase
in global petroleum demand by 0.9 percent p.a. until 1995 and the adoption of OECD policies to
reduce dependence on oil imports; it is only in the latter half of the decade that real price increases
are expected 4ue to a decline in global production.) Despite a premium for its high-quality crude,
Nigeria will remain a price taker. Proposals for the implementation of effective stabilization
instruments to iritigate the impact of price swings are under active consideration. Nigeria's efforts to
increase its produciive capacity to 2.5 mb/d by the middle of the decade appear sustainable due to
favorable new terms negotiated with joint venture companies and Nigeria's c: ;nparatively low
exploration and production cost. Direct foreign investment, most of which is oil sector related, is
expected to remain stable over the medium term. Efforts to diversify Nigeria's energy exports,
notably through the liquified natural gas (LNG) project, stand a reasonable chance for taking off in
the latter part of the decade.
26.    Regional Economic Policies. As a member of ECOWAS, Nigeria filly supports renewed
efforts to advance regional integration, particularly through the removal of barriers to trade in goods
and services. Nigeria's exchange rate relative to the CFA franc in recent years and the uneven
implementation of the tariff structure in neighboring countries have contrbuted to an expansion of
non-oil exports. This trade, most of which remains unrecorded and unofficial, accounts for a rising



.9 -
share of light manufacturing activity in Nigeria. Due to the existing misalignment in tax and pricing
structures for petroleum products, smuggled exports of Nigerian petroleum products are subsidizing
economic activities in neighboring countries. While the Government is keenly aware of the regional
situation, specifically with respect to foregone fiscal revc nues and implications for the domestic
economy, it has decided that removal of the petroleum subsidies - a politically sensitive issue that
led to the urban riots in 1992 - Is not feasible without better education of the public.
C.    Bank9's Country Assistanee Strategy
1. Bank Objectives
27.    Given the majrr policy and portfolio management problems and political uncertainties that
Nigeria fLces, the focus of this Country Assistance Strategy is on the near-term. The Bank's
overarching objective in Nigeria is to promote sustainable poverty reduction. As a broad strategy,
this means support for policies and expenditures that promote efficient growth, making use of the
poor's most abundant asset-their labor-and the provision o. basic social services-including
culturally-sensitive family planning servces-for the poor. But in the short term, the Bank's
assistance strategy is tailored to meet the present realities of a .arge, slow moving portfolio, the
uncertainties createu by the political transition and slippages in economic management, and Nigeria's
limited creditworthiness. Accordingly, the Bank's assistance strategy is targeted at improving
implementation and maintaining a modest and tightly focused lending program. Meanwhile,
economic and sector work (ESW) will support the policy dialogue on key policy and development
issues. This will also help to prepare for a resumption of a lending program more consistent with
Nigerias size and needs. To help Nigeria to find a durable solution to its economic problems, the
strategy needs to include efforts to re-engage the international community in supporting sustained
economic reform and efficient development of the country's potential.
28. Policv Dialogue. The thrust of the Bank's policy dialogue with the newly appointed
Transitional Council will be to support constuctive efforts to utilize the extension of the transition
period as an opportnity to take strong stabilizaton measures. This dialogue will extend to the
underlying structura problems that have to be addressed as integral components of any meaningfuil
stabilization package. These include: (i) promoting sound public sector management, particularly in
the areas of public expenditure management, commercialization of public utilities, and instution-
building; (ii) removal of inefficient and highl , iistortionary subsidies, particularly for domestic
petroleum products and fertilizer; (iii) incentive reforms geared at improving the climate for private
investment, supported by financi sector reform, efficient provision of complementary infrastrumcre
services (transport, power, and telecommunication), and privatization of public enterprises; (iv)
poverty reduction and human resources development; and (v) environmental protection. Credible
governnmet action in this direction will be crucial for bridging the transition period and revitalizing
support from donors and creditors.
29.    Economic and Sector Work. At this juncture of Nigeria's evolving programs of economic
restructuring and political transition, ESW will play a major role. It will underpin the dialogue on tza
critical policy reforms still needed to achieve the central objectives of the structural adjustment
program. It will also help to prepare the Bank to respond when the conditions for a resumption of
higher lending levels materiaize. The strategy underlying the ESW program is predicated on two
cental premises: (i) that Nigeria is faced with deep-seated structura problems that require sustained
policy and institonal reform; and (ii) that the Bank retains a comparative advantage in policy



- 10-
dialogue and a leadership role in donor coordination. Recent ESW on public expenditure
management and the financial sector has helped to draw the attention of decision-makers in Nigeria to
the urgency of addressing major deficiencies in economic management. Studies on the environment,
women in development, population, and food security have placed important issues of long-run
sustainability on the agenda for the policy dialogue. A forthcoming report assesses Nigeria's
performance under the SAP and recommends actions to restore fiscal stability and deepen structural
reforms. This report, which will provide the platform for discussions with the Government on a
longer-term reform program, will be complemented by a comprehensive Public Expenditure and
Sectoral Strategy Review. This review, together with a series of Policy Briefs, will serve as vehicles
for policy dialogue with thP incoming Government on appropriate sector strategies and the public
expenditure programs needed to implement them. It will also encompass an assessment of public
fintce issues at the state government level. Together with recent studies on forestry, land use
management, and local government, the ESW program will support the Bank's increased operational
orientation in favor of state-level projects. Other policy studies will focus on (i) private sector
development; (ii) poverty; and (iii) the implementation of appropriate stabilization and risk
management policies to mitigate the impact of oil price shocks.
30.    Lendjig. Ihe size and rate of disbursement of the current portfolio, coupled with the
ucerainties regarding the future direction of economic policy, suggest that it would be prudent to
mantain new commitments at modest levels over the next two years. At the same time, however, we
need to maintain a work program that witl facilitate a return to a higher level of lending more
consistent with Nigeria's size and development needs, when conditions are appropriate. The Bank's
annual lending program in FY92-93, averaging US$200-250 million, comprises four to five projects.
This is in contrast to the previous five years when Nigeria received an annual average of US$600
million. Since Nigeria was declared IDA-eligible in 1988, support from IDA has risen fr&e ess than
10 percent of all assistance in FY89 to half the program in FY92. Given Nigeria's status among the
poorest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, and its very limited access to concessional financing, IDA
support will be maintained. IDA resources focus on poverty reduction and sustainable development
issues. The lending program reflects the increasing emphasis placed on state-level projects, which are
critical for strengthening government capacity at this level. Priority is being given to states where the
newly-elected governmets have demonstrated strong commitment to development and efficient
implementation of ongoing Bank- supported projects. Also, the sectors of emphasis are those where
the activites are primarily focused in the states: (i) projects in the social sectors (secondary
education, disease control, including AlIDS, and nutrition), agriculture (through a Rural Marketing
Project), and in environmental protection; and (ii) projects in basic infrastructure (supporting state
roads and water supply). At the Federal level, operations are intended to support the Government's
program to privatlze and commercialize public utilities (e.g., electricity and railways). Lending in
this category would be contingent on progress in the Government's privaization and
commercialization program. In a similar vein, proposed operations in roads and water supply would
depend on satisfactory progress toward cost-recovery and financial performance.
a. Areas of Specsl Emphasis
31.    Public Sector Managemen and Instittion Building. One of Nigeria's central development
challenges will be to break the destabilizing cycle of fluctuating oil revenue and expansionary fiscal
and monetary policies and reduce the scope of rent-seeking and rent-creating actions. Refor&. in
public expenditure management will need to play a key role toward improving the efficiency of public
sector resource _e. The fiscal reform program will need to encompass the consolidation of the
plamning, budgetig and accounting procedures to enhance the transparency of the whole budget



- 11 -
process and make decisions more responsive to economic and social criteria. Specifically, this will
need to involve: the "budgetizing" of extrabudgetary expenditures; transparent management of
stabilization and other accounts; the introduction of external auditing for all spending; and integration
of a foreign financing strategy into overall project management. Parallel efforts will have to be
directed at the rationalization of the public investment program, including: suspension of projects
with negative or marginally positive economic returns; re-allocation of public spending toward
priority socia and infrastructure needs within the framework of a core investment program; and
instituting non-recourse fimancing for new comme.cial projects. The third component of public sector
reforms would involve the phasing out of inefficient subsidies, which are neither economically
efficient nor socially defensible, notably for domestic petroleum products and fertilizer. In addition, a
renewed commitment to parastatal reform, particularly for key utilities, such as NEPA and NTrEL,
will be necessary. The restructuring of parastatals will have to accompanied by reforms in the
regulatory environment, including competition policy, ownership policy, and regulatory oversight.
To support these developments, a package of multi-agency support has been provided under the
Economic Management Technical Assistance Project, and each on-going project includes technical
assistance components aimed at the further strengthening of implementing agencies, especially at the
state level.
32.    Private Sector Depmet. The promotion of private sector activities will require the
creation of a stable incentive regime that restores investor confidence and embodies a qualified
reduction in the public sector's role in the economy. The joint Bank-IFC Private Sector Assessment
study, which is curetly under preparation, is expected to define the scope and direction for the
Bank's involvement in the development of the private sector. Private provision of services has an
important role to play in areas currently dominated by the public sector, for example road
maintenance and utilities. The management of public assets should be improved by accelerating the
privatization of parastatals and contracting with private operators. Adequate resources for private
sector expansion will have to be ensured by restraining govermuent spending and borrowing. In this
context, Nigera's financial system could become a more effective conduit for channeling oil revenue
to productive uses in the private sector, provided the authorities take steps to restructure the overhang
of non-performing loans, curtail the spread of unregulated non-bank financial institutions, and remove
remaining restrictions on credit allocations. In view of Nigeria's exposure to oil price fluctuations,
the authorities should consider the implementation of an effective stabilization mechanism which
would help to mitigate the impact of oil-related shocks on the rest of the economy and ensure greater
fiscal and monetary stability. The Oso Condensate project and the proposed GEF-Escravos Gas
Utilization project are instrumental for facilitating the flow of private capital into the oil sector. To
facilitate the resumption of private investment and lower the cost of doing business in Nigeria, the
public sector's capacity to provide adequate infrastructure facilities and complementary public services
needs to be strengthened, and is being supported by projects in power and telecommunications.
Another area of priority concerns agriculture. Serious non-price constraints on food
production-including the slow pace of technological dhange at the farm level, the lack of market
integration due to poor infrastructure, and the neglect of special constraints faced by women
farmers-need to be overcome; the expansion of the Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) to all
states has now been accomplished, which should help reduce these constraints, particularly through
the work of the extension agents.
33.   PEewa  Redution. Actions to address poverty in Nigeria require commitment to (i)
reallocate public resources-away from uneconomic projects which have preempted resources urgently
needed in the social sectors, (ii) concentate on the creation of income-eaning opportunities, and (iii)
ensure greater and more equitable access to basic social services. Ihe recent transfer of responsibility



- 12 -
for the provision of basic services, including primary health care and education, from the states to the
LGAs signals an important initial step toward greater responsiveness to local needs. For this strategy
to be sustainable, it will have to be accompanied by a fundamental overhaul of public expenditure
priorities. Proposed Bank operations aim to improve quality and coverage of service delivery
systems, specifically in the areas of: primary and secondary health care, especially for mothers;
primary and secondary education, particularly for girls; nutrition policies aimed at improving the diets
of children; and expanded access to clean water. TIis strategy will focus on those most in
need-women and children in the rural areas, where roughly seventy percent of the population live.
The proposed Development Communication Pilot Project will pilot a method to support early
childhood development, using locally produced videos and printed support materials to educate
children, caregivers and parents. In addition, the project will develop new methods for the
production and distribution of children's programs and social messages. Given the central role of
agriculture for both employment and nutrition, improving farming methods and access to inputs will
remain a key priority. But, in the past, women were often excluded from assistance programs.
Through specially trained women agricultural extension workers, recently added to extension
programs, women farmers are receiving direct guidance on farming techniques and on use and storage
of their output. This work is now reaching most states through the network of multistate ADPs.
Enabling women to attain a higher level of productivity provides the basis for improving the lives of
the poor. To this end, providing reproductive freedom for women is an important step. The
National Population Policy, implementation of which is supported by an IDA credit, emphasizes
efforts to improve the quality of life, especially of mothers and infants, and to increase the spacing
between children.
34.    Sustainable Development. Nigeria's environmental problems are linked to the broad
spectrum of economic policies and programs. These issues particularly relate to agricultural
productivity and population growth, and the solutions depend on education and health, and the
institutional capacity to implement them. Nigeria's most critical environmental problems-soil
degradation and erosion, deforestation, and water contamination-are being taclded on a number of
froonts under the Environmental Management Project. Agricultural technologies are being promoted to
sustain agricutural growth under more land-intensive conditions, through more effective use of inputs
and environmentally-sensitive technologies. The Bank is working with the federal and state
governments to support management of land and forest research, and continuing to fund projects that
address issues of water conamination and waste disposal in the cities, plus investigating the
possibility of assisting in the development of rural water systems. Overall these initiatives are being
supported by Nigeria's Federal Environmeal Protection Agency, which-with the assistance of the
Bank credit-is developing national guidelines and helping the states to develop the capacity to
implement environmental measures and programs. The thrust of the Bank's environmental lending
strategy is to support government efforts to implement new regulatory and incenive policies that take
account of the social costs of environmental degradation in priority areas. Efforts are also underway
to develop projects which will reduce gas flaring and CFC emissions. In agriculture, the role of the
private sector is to be further strengthened-notably in input supply and rural marketing, while
enhacing the Government's capacity to intervene efficiently in technology transfer, irrigation, rural
roads, water supply, and soil conservation.
b. Portfolio Management
35.   Improving project implementation is a priority. Its benefits could etend far beyond the
limited portfolio of Bank-assisted projects. Peculiarities of Bank processing and procurement
conventions aside, projects in Nigeria financed by internal and other external sources face similar



- 13 -
problems. Solving the management problems faced by Bank-assisted projects should help to provide
insights for other projects and for the broader course of development in Nigeria. A range of actions
are being taken to improve the effective implementation of projects in the portfolio and the quality of
new projects. These efforts should enhance the Bank's development impact significantly.
Box 3. Impkmentaon InWves
The bglti" l   if A0 inititv, to acceleratet   in NigeriA. Additioial resources have
w~ *   i  te staf o  the Resident MiSSiOn and to intensif    ain. Eight projects have
bE~ i4m'ktifled a jwtkiila slow dvbursiug: bidividual im4-ud Actian Plans have been;' prod io
brwkihi~igh in the ptw  aeas Ofay  - deco-kin  p        i       dol   t fig..
t   >459esrd                    Cs, w . >mel.atin of.
(FY).   -Action PLan:.  RedeSion   .are
4a.i RO                            8 
<X =   i = -:tokt i: .Lti~  -     -                                           .: . ..N
::~taaA'.>..: ...                           by :.a ;  8.          4       . --:->;-.' .
.: :.:.=-::-' "f'86   -I
..
:ialt&'di u SiiteEnt.r-V; - ;           89                       4       L    1.
Lans _oe  _pp                            89          4 :
imelg.aLthi   8.                                                . ...... .
'''re. pt'                               _90'4_4' :
TqLocautu,nlcattons                      90          4 
F.a   nVerait  fOeem~              904
Na~IosisLsseritia 0W~gs.'90               4
$attli =ym Fd           -       :  E 91
~~~~riwy~~~~~~~~~~ "iato    91'' - "''''4.''''.',;',"'.
36.    ImproingImpflementation. Drawing on the work of a recendy formed Departmental Task
Force on Implementation (see Box 3), the Bank and the Government are currently engaged in a
comprehensive restructuring of the Nigerian loan portfolio. This includes selective cancellation of
non-performing loan components, and restructuring of potentially viable but slow-disbursing projects.
Some US$250 million are being canceled from nine loans. A number of other changes are also being
made. The Resident Mission in Lagos has been given expanded responsibility for implementation,
supported by the appointment of Nigerian experts to provide assistance to key activities in agricuture,
health, education, infrastructure, and telecommunications. The Resident Mission's capacity has been
furither strengthened through the posting of a procurement and an education specialist to the field, and
the recruitment of an accountant. Sector implementation reviews have recently been held by the
agriculture, infastructure, and population and human resources divisions, in preparation for a
Country Implementation Review to be held later in 1993, once the new administration is in place.
Meanwhile, state-by-state portfolio summaries are being prepared to assist in orienting the newly-
elected governors, many of whom have shown considerable eagerness to remove administrative and



- 14-
funding bottlenecks. These concerted implementation efforts are expected to lead to sustained
improvements in disbursement rates and, together with the selective cancellation of loan components
and the planned reduction in new commitments over the next two years, to result in a decline in
Nigeria's undisbursed balance. The goal for FY94195 is to increase Nigeria's disbursement rate to
18.5 percent, that is, the Bankwide average for investment projects over the past four years. Ihis
would represent a major achievement for Nigeria, whose disbursement rate reached only 12.1 percent
over the same four-year period.
37.   Improving Quality at Entry. In parallel, the Bank is aiming at improving project quality at
entry. Staff is working with the authorities to keep new projects simple and to incorporate greater
realism about implementation constraints into project designs. Procurement planning is being
emphasized, and standardized bid documents are being introduced. Project preparatory activities,
including resolution of c&sential policy issues, are being completed prior to Board presentation. We
are also taking steps to enhance borrower commitment to, and ownership of, new projects through
more intensive project preparation, and are specifically evaluating commitment and ownership and
their implications for implementation, during appraisal. We are requiring that the economic analysis
of expected costs and benefits to specifically test the sensitivity of the projected outcome to variations
in assumptions about implementation. We will also ensure that project assumptions about timing and
availability of local funding reflect the lessons of experience. More broadly, we are reviewing OED
reports on Nigeria and compiling the key lessons learned from completed projects in the design of
new operations and for dissemination to top-level Nigerian counterparts.
c. IFC and MIGA
38.   IFC is pursuing a broad-based strategy in Nigeria, aimed at financing private investments in
all key sectors, supporting financial sector institution building, and providing advisory work on
privatization and large projects. It is working together with the Bank on a private sector assessment
to identify and address major constraints to private sector development. IFC's current portfolio of
US$111 million represents 40 percent of the total value of loans and equity investments approved
since 1964; it extends to companies in the petroleum, agribusiness, banking, textiles, transport, and
tourism sectors. This includes a major Bank/lFC loan associated with a US$900 million project to
develop and export petroleum condensates. In the financial sector, IFC has helped establish one of
Nigeria's first discount houses. IFC is currently considering investment proposals in manufacturing,
crude oil exploitation, rehabilitation/expansion of agro-allied enterprises, and a number of small-scale
enterprises through the Africa Enterprise Fund. It is appraising a major strategic US$4.2 billion
project to liquefy 4.5 million tons of natural gas per year for export to European and U.S. markets.
Nigeria has been a full member of MIGA since April 1988. Since Its inception, MIGA has received
sixteen preliminary applications, of which one has gone forward for Board approval. This is a
relatively low level of activity given Nigeria's opportunities and market size, underlining the
importance of restoring creditworthiness and improving the overall climate for foreign investors.
d. Multilaterals and Donors
39.   IMP. The IMF has supported the Government's adjustment efforts with stand-by
arrangements in 1987, 1989, and 1991. Nigeria chose not to make any drawings under any of the
stand-bys. The first arrangement, for SDR 650 million, was approved in January 1987, but the
scheduled reviews were never completed. The second arrangement, for SDR 475 million, covered
February 1989 to April 1990; it was satisfactorily completed. The third arrangement, for SDR 319
milion, was approved in February 1991; as with the first stand-by, none of the scheduled reviews



- 15 -
were completed. The Fund declared Nigeria eligible for ESAF in February 1992. Discussions are
underway with the IMF, in collaboration with the Bank, on a medium-term strategy that could form
the basis for support by an ESAF.
40.    Mllateral Ageces. UNICEF has a large program in Nigeria. It is working closely with
the Bank through joint missions and up-front funding to support development of the National
Nutrition Program and preparation of a proposed nutrition project for Bank financing. Close
cooperation also takes place in the areas of development communication, water supplies, and essental
drugs. UNFPA has provided important technical and analytical support for the 1991 census and has
helped initiate work for WID-activities and in population education at the secondary level.
41.    Aid Coordinatio. Since the Nigerian Government embarked on the SAP in 1986, the Bank
has been the focal point of aid coordination and cofinancing operations. Nigeria's IDA eligibility in
1988 and informal donor meetings on the Government's performance under the SAP led to the
formation of a Consultative Group (CG) in November 1989, which mobilized some US$300 million
in balance-of-payments support. Subsequent discussions between bilateral donors and the Government
on the composition of the public investment program did not result in an increase in concessional
resources. Rather, the combination of deteriorating econonuc management, unsatisfactory project
implementation, and delays in servicing officW debt prompted a number of donors to place parts of
their assistance programs on hold until a viable macroeconomic framework would be restored. Bank-
supported projects continue to attract significant amounts of cofinancing, including recent
telecommunications and environmental manaement projects. The organization of donor meetings in
Lagos, to be initiated later this year, is intended to improve aid coordination in the social and
ifrastructure sectors, particularly with a view to enhanced targeting of resources and to development
of coherent aid strategies.
2.  Key Issues for Consideration
a.  Summary Assessment
42.    Despite periods of hesitation and reversal, the authorities have continued to pursue economic
adjustment and reform, and to prepare for civilian rule. Many of the important strucural reforms
initated under the SAP are showing results. However, the spending pressures created by the
transition to civilian rule-coupled with the failure to manage the short-lived windfall of oil revenues
accruing from the Gulf crisis-threaten to erode the economy's hard-won gains. They have exposed
the fragility of mechanisms for maintaing fiscal and monetary discipline, and underscore the need
for systematic reforms in public expenditure management. The authorities took important steps in
1992, notably liberalizing interest rates and adopting a unified, interbank foreign exchange system.
These steps are encouraging. However, lacking a more stable fiscal framework, they are unlikely to
be sustainabie.
43.   Expenditure Management. The first priority therefore remains to arrest the alarming
deterioration in the fiscal and monetary situation. Efforts to stabilize the economy can concentrate on
reducing inefficient subsidies and fiscal spending, notably by eliminating extrabudgetary expendiures.
Imationary pressures associated with earlier expansionary policies, the continuing costs of the
extended transition program, and high debt service payments will strain the Government's ability to
implement an effective stabilization program. That said, credible fiscal efforts are absolutely essential
if Nigeria hopes to re-engage the support of the international community. Transparency in resource
use and convincing mechanisms to ensure accountability-in terms of an effective accounting system



- 16 -
for expenditure control and cash management and an independent audit system-will also be required.
These expenditure management efforts need to be accompanied by a renewed commitment to
structural refoms, especially financial sector and public enterprise reforms, and firter relaxation of
the climate for private investment.
44.    Erty Reduction. These reforms should establish a climate for growth. They will need to
be accompanied by a shift in public expenditures toward basic social services-if the growth is to be
successful in reducing poverty. Given that the LGAs have been assigned responsibility for the
provision of social services, there is scope for a participatory development approach to social service
delivery. Considerable work on institutional development will be needed.
45.   Institutional Developmnt. The institutional development issue goes beyond the provision of
basic social services. Administrative weaknesses are widespread, and an institutional development
strategy is essential to facilitate the effective use of the skilled manpower available. Within this
management arena, project implementation issues-including for Bank-supported projects-are central
and pervasive problems that need to be solved. A systematic assessment of the scope of the problem
and a phased program for addressing the weaklnesses is essential.
46.    Roleoftea    The Bank will have an important role to play in helping Nigeria to meet
these and other challenges. In fashioning that role, we have been mindful of (i) the lessons learned
about the effectiveness of past Bank assistance efforts and (ii) the importance of ensuring country
ownership of all initiatives, programs, and projects.
a ESW. Economic and sector work will play a major role in supporting the dialogue with the
Government and donors. It will provide the underlying analysis of the options for reforming
economic management, and the likely costs, benefits, and risks associated with the different
options. It will provide for donors an analysis of Nigeria's large official debt overhang and
its impact on donor goals in Nigeria. It will also need to carry the operational dialogue on a
broad array of macroeconomic, sectoral, and institutional issues, pending the resolution of the
policy and portfolio management issues that are constraining lending.
* Porfolio Management. Given the continued uncertainties over the future direction of
economic policy and the slippages in economic management, coupled with the size and slow
rate of disbursement of the Bank's current portfolio, the Bank's operational strategy for the
near term is to hold new commitments to relatively modest levels while giving the greatest
priority to implementation and ongoing efforts to restructure and/or cancel problem projects.
* Lending. The lending program will concentrate on operations designed to have a significant
impact on poverty reduction, human resources development, and long-term sustainability,
coupled with investments that can support important sector policy reforms. A sustained flow
of IDA resources is expected to play an important role in the first component of the program.
Quality at entry will be enhanced by greater use of risk and sensitivity analysis-especially
with respect to key implementation assumptions-and explicit appraisal of borrower and
Government commitment and ownership. As economic management improves, and in
conjunction with debt relief from official creditors, the Bank would consider adjustment
lending to support government reform efforts and burden sharing with official creditors.
* Donor Coordination. The core of the Bank's aid coordination efforts wil be to facilitate the
dialogue between the Government and official creditors on the case for supporting a



- 17 -
coninuation of the economic reform program with a combination of concessional debt relief
and new money. At less than US$1 per capita, Nigeria's access to concessional resources is
the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Taking into account the debt-service payments, Nigeria's
negative net transfers to official creditors amount to US$23 per capita, some 9 percent of total
income.
b. Criteria for Asse ;ng Progress
47.   The Bank's support-and in particular a resumption of levels of lending commensurate with
Nigeria's vast development needs-will be dependent on evidence of: (i) renewed commitment to
sound macroeconomic policies and structural reform; (i) strengthened commitment to poverty
reduction; and (iii) improvements in implementation of Bank-supported projects.
Progress on economic management will be measured against evidence of adherence to sound
fiscal and monetary policies; improved management of public expenditures; rationalization of
public expenditures, with greater reliance on economic criteria for determining spending
allocations; phasing out of inefficient subsidies; maintenance of a market-determined exchange
rate system; sustained reforms in the financial sector; and further progress in parastatal
refbrm.
* Progress on povrty reduction will be judged by efforts to promote efficient growth and to
provide basic social services to the poor. The former will be judged by the macroeconomic
framework; the latter by the allocation of public expenditures for primary health care,
education, and family planning services.
* Progress on Imlementation will be measured by the authorities' willingness to restructure or
to cancel poorly performing projects; by the improved availability of counterpart funds; by
the timeliness with which project audit requirements are met; and by the reduction in
processing time for routine procedures.
H. THE PROPOSD CREDff
48.    atcgrgud. In Nigeria many primary school-age children are not receiving education,
achievement among school graduates is low, adult illiteracy and innumeracy are increasing and social
conditions are worsening. Enrollment rates have fallen in the past decade while population pressures
indicate a need to expand access to education. Financial constraints inhibit provision of sufficient
infastucture and Instructional materials for a large dispersed population. An IDA credit (Cr. 2191-
UNI) is supporting the government's primary education program by providing instructional materias,
training staff, improving data collection, strengthening insdtutions and monitoring and evaluating the
schools; thus improving teaching, learning and attendance in 37,000 insttudons.
49.    Government recognizes the importance of early childhood education. With insufficient funds
alocated to the existing system, government leaves preschool provision to communities and the
private sector. There are a variety of different modalities of early childhood education provision.
The service is offered within structures that bear many different names from preschools to
kindergartens, nursery schools, women's centers, community groups and so forth. The proprietors
vary from private individuals to women's groups, NGOs, universities, government ministries and
religious bodies. The preschool curriculum enhances cognitve, psycho-social and psychomotor
development, health, nutrition, environment and cultural understanding through play. Preschool



. 18 -
groups includw children and their mothers, providing an excellent opportunity for widening the scope
of these associations to include social and health messaging and environmental awareness, as well as
basic literacy and numeracy.
50.    An evaluation of the centers indicates a high level of effectiveness and acceptance as
demonstrated by parents' eagerness to send their children and willingness to pay for services, the
children's academic and socio-psycho g-ins, and the demand for more centers. Issues Identified by
the community are (i) scarcity of instructional materials for the children and caregivers, (ii)
caregivers' lack of knowledge and skiUs and (iii) poor parental knowledge of preschool child needs
and care. The problem is how to address these issues through existing nonfornal geographically
dispersed instiutions. Although the use of television in education is still controversial and few
evaluations have been made of its effectiveness, several characteristics of this medium suit it for use
with preschoolers in the situation described. It has immediate visual appeal, is accessible by viewers
with a wide range of ages and literacy levels, can reach large sectors of the community quickly and
conveniendy, and can model exemplary classroom practices and educate, inform and entertain
concurrently.
51.    The Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) is a national enterprise operating 24 stations across
Nigeria covering about 68% of the total land mass with an estimated audience of 38.3 million -
reaching 72% of the urban population and 28% of the rural. NTA is partially commercialized with
about two-thirds of its income for recurrent expenditures coming from advertisements. Consistent
with the concept that public broadcasting is a public good with a proven developmental Impact, NTA
has educational and developmental mandates with 8 out of the 25 hours of weeldy network time
programmed for children and youth, formal education, and public enlightenment. Since the standard
of local education programs is low and funds are not available for overseas purchase, the NTA
Program Direcorate (NTAPD) has canceled the air time alloted them. NTA personnel are capable
of routine production but are hampered by the unsatisfactory state of their equipment. Also,
ransmission problems arise from outmoded transmitters, poor maintenance, and lack of capital funds.
52.    There are some small private video and film producers with modern equipment but
inadequate studios and no direct access to transmission facilities. Few have so far shown interest in
educational or social program production. With the recent deregulation of the television sector their
numbers should grow.
53.    Poect Objecdves. The main objective of the proposed five-yea project is to pilot a method
to support early childhood development. To do this the project would: (a) provide, disseminate and
reinforce instructional materals for preschool aged children; (b) promote early childhood
development; (c) sensitize parents to early childhood needs and care; (d) enhance caregivers'
knowledge and competencies; (e) create the institutional and infrastrucural fiamework for quality
educational and developmental television programming; and (f) introduce replicable modalities of
educational and social program development, monitoring and evaluation.
54.   Project DescriVon. The proposed project would support (a) development, production and
purchase of video-taped programs and printed support materis in English and the major local
languages to develop basic communicion and social skills among preschoolers, to sensitize parents to
the needs of eady cdhood and provide them with social messages; (b) distribution of videos and
support materials through network transmission, video-on-wheels and local viewing centers for on site
viewing, and sales ftrough licensed retailers; (c) caregiver training using locally produced videos and
printed materals that model effective instructional methods, distributing these materials, and



-19-
providing trained facilitators to accompany video transmission; (d) institution building by establishing
a steering group and working committee, setting up a dedicated production facility with staff, a
studio, production equipment, spare parts and maintenance training, training pr- 4uction personnel,
transferring skills through a production based on the Sesame Street model, and promoting competition
between local producers; (e) the establishment of a replicable model of educational television
management, production, disemination and reinforcement with formative, summative and impact
evauation and research into program objectives and content, additional ways of enhancing the use of
television for education, television transmission and reception problems and solutions and the
coordinated use of the media for development. The IDA credit of US$8.0 million would finance 78.5
percent of the total project costs net of duties and taxes or 94 percent of the foreign costs and 62.3
percent of local costs net of duties and taxes. Parallel financing of US$0.5 million equivalent is being
sought from UNICEF and BVL. NTA contribution would amount to US$1.7 million equivalent,
including duties and taxes estimated at about US$0.29 million equivalent. A summary is given in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in
Nigeria are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map is included at the end of this
memorandum. The Staff Appraisa Report No. 11236-UNI dated February 9, 1993 is also attached.
S5.   Project Implementadon. The FMIC, as NTA's supervising ministry, has responsibility for
monitoring NTA's performance and will be responsible for overseeing the project and for pet iodic
evaluations. NTA will implement most project components including (i) procurement of civil works,
goods and services; (ii) development, production and acquisition of videos and printed support
materials; (iii) network distribution of the materials and distribution through three video-on-wheels
units and three local viewing centers; (iv) organization and oversight of monitoring; (v) compliance
with IDA reporting requirements; and (vi) staffing the ETU and the video-on-wheels and local
viewing centers under their purview. Preschool coordinating groups, supported by grant funding, will
be responsible for training facilitators, distributing and reinforcing materials through two video-on-
wheels units and seven local viewing centers, and for monitoring activities in these locations.
56.   Pect Sustainabilt. It is important not to introduce too many variables into he design of
this experimental project. To be avoided is a requirement that the implementing agency, a newly
commercialized entity, should make an unacceptably heavy contribution to project financing. The
NTA is contributing the ETU site, staff salaries, monitoring and evaluation, administrative costs, and
duties and taxes. Implementation should concentrate on testing the project model. This raises the
question of sustainability and expansion. Provision of adequate funding allows time for NTA's
commerciization plan, based on a performance agreement between NTA and FGN signed July 7
1992, to succeed. Projected income under this agreement indicates that by 1997 NTA's financial
sustainability should be assured. A further action aimed at project sustainability is the requirement
that NTA makes annual budgetary provisions to cover spares, maintenance and depreciation of capital
stock provided under the project. Technical sustainability is assured through the provision of
inucture and equipment, the production of 130 hours of programming, the reinstatement of one
hour of instructional programming from 15.00 to 16.00 hours daily, and the availability of staff
trained under the project. The research studies will provide infrmation on ways to improve network
transmission, development of the ETU into a full educational television service and on the coordinated
use of the mass media for effective development. Upon the proven success of this pilot operation a
more ambitious project could be funded.
57.   Lessns Learnd from Previous IDA/Ban. Experience with previous Bank-
assisted projects in Nigeria shows that the constraints to good project implementation have included:



-20 -
weak management and implementation capabilities; uncertainties in the supply of materials and
equipment; and poor project design with too many broadly dispersed project institutions. Experience
with the use of television in projects in other countries indicates that investments have been too high
and returns low; local input and relevance have been ir adequate; management has been problematic
with low commitment and poor group coordination; administrative structure has been nebulous and
inefficient; too much equipment has been supplied with insufficient allowance for maintenance,
spares, and depreciation and staff training; teachers and parents have been opposed to the use of
television for instruction; the mix between production techniques and teacher skills has been
inefficient; feedback and evaluation have been minimal and success unmeasured. This project
addresses these issues by establishing a management structure, upgrading one institution only, and
systematically monitoring progress. Investments in capital stock have been minimized and training on
unfamiliar equipment is included in the project. The commitment of NTA has remained over a
protracted period of discussions with IDA while commitment among early childcare center personnel
was verified through on-site visits. Ownership of the project resides with NTA which has been fully
involved in its development and processing in Nigeria.
58.    Ra ale for IDA        mnt. The project supports the Bank's education policies by (a)
increasing students' learning capacity through preschools and through in-school health and nutrition
interventions (in this case through parent education); (b) providing instructional materials; and (c)
improving classroom teaching (Primary Education: A World Bank Policy Paper. 1990). It contribvtes
to institution building by establishing a center for the production of mass education and social
materials and pilots a model for their distribuW )n, reinforcement and evaluation. The project is
consonant with the Nigeria country strategy since it makes a contribution to poverty alleviation,
human resource development and long-term sustainability as it pioneers a community-based needs-led
approach to the education of young children and their mothers. This is a pilot project. It is expected
to have high pay-offs.
59.    Ag      ns. The Government and NTA has agree on the following actions: (a) allocate,
by December 31, 1995, a weeldy one-hour of network time to the transmission of educational
materis, increasing this to three hours weekly by project completion; (D) introduce, no later than the
fourth project year, an annual budget line of 10% of equipment costs for depreciation and, no later
than the fifth project year, an annual budget line of 10% of equipment costs for maintenance and
spares; (c) make available funds to pay staff salaries, cover administrative costs and other recurrent
expenditures; (d) use the ETU site, throughout the useful life of the facilities, solely for the
production of project related materials; (e) establish a Steering Group and a Working Committee,
each in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Association, the membership of which shall
include a representative of FMIC; (t) clearly define the accountng system and managenial structure of
ETU; (g) no later than three years after the date of effectiveness, carry out jointly with the
Association a mid-term review of the project that will examine the technical assistance phasing out,
local staff involvement in production and distribution, the 26 episodes of preschool videos produced,
the one hour per week of instuctional network programming, the distribution of the first batch of
videos, and the results of the first formative evaluation and, three months prior to that review,
prepare and fumnish to the Association aU relevant documents showing progress made in carrying out
the objectives of the project; and (h) no later than December 31, 1995, carry out the research studies
and promptly funish the findings to the Association for review and comment. Conditions of
effectiveness are: (a) the execution of the Participation Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and
NTA; (b) NTA has opened a project account with an initial deposit of $70,000 equivalent; (c) NTA
has submitted to the Association the draft ICB and LCB documents for civil works, equipment,
vehicles, furnire and videos to be procured under the project; (d) NTA has furnished to the



- 21 -
Association a surveyor's report satisfactory to the Association, on the proposed site for the studio,
suitable architectural plans and bufldings specifications for the studio, including the confirmation that
the land belongs to NTA; (e) NTA has appointed the Procurement Consultant; (t) NTA has furnished
to the Association a short list of candidates for the positions of Project Coordinator, production
director, studio production specialist, and monitoring and evaluadon specialist; (g) NTA has furnished
to the Association the details of overseas training courses required under the Project; and (b) NTA
has furnished to the Association detailed costs, objectives and plans for the study tour itineraries
included in the Project.
60.    Emironmental As. The project should have a positive environmental impact since
environmental sanitation will be included in the children's programs and parents' messages.
Facilitators will discuss lessons learned and monitor the resulting changes in attitude and behavior.
61.    Progam Obiective atgri. Women are a major beneficiary of this project since many of
the target preschools are at women's centers, organized by women's groups and attended or
supervised by women. Social and =conomic benefits could accrue to them because the instuctional
materias will contain social messages and, in watching the children's programs, women could benefit
from the communication skills taught. Such skills are useful for e-inomic activities. Reinforcement
of these messages by facilitators during focus group discussions make it more likely that would
women apply what is learnt. Early childcare centers free mothers to participate in economic
activities. This could have a positive impact on poverty reduction.
62.    Proect Benfit. The project would produce a substantial collection of instructional support
materials including 130 hours of video programming of preschool instruction and social messaging
and six teacher training videos with supplementary printed materials. A large population of preschool
age children will be reached through network transmissions. Of preschool children aged three to six
years, four million (36 percent) already have access to television. Distribution by video-on-wheels
and through local viewing centers will provide access to a sample of disadvantaged children.
63.    Improved educational delivery and support should result in increased learning gains and
improved motivation of preschoolers who will be given a head start for formal educatiom. Caregivers
will be better equipped to use more creative and interactive techniques in teaching and to attend more
effectively to the child's health, safety, nutrition and other needs that contribute to all-round
development. Parents and community members will be better informed about child-rearing and ways
to better their living conditions through, better nutrition, smaller families, improved health, the
avoidance of AIDS, and productive enterprises.
64.    Throughout the project a model for using television in the interests of education will be
tested. By project completion this should be modified and refined to raise its impact and efficiency,
ensure its satisfactory expansion and increase its potential replicability in similar situations. The
institution building component of the project will establish the managerial/institutional infrastructure
for production of ETV materials, a mechanism for bringing all major action groups together, and a
prototype production model for videos and printed instructional materials. It will develop the human
resources necessary to implement and expand the use of the media for education.
65.    On project completion a bank of instructional materials will be available for continuous use
with sufficient trained staff to support this. If successful the project could provide the foundations of
an educational television service which would reach an increasingly large and dispersed population as



-22-
transmission and reception improved. It would provide a model for expansion in Nigeria or for other
countries to emulate.
66.    EietJish. Investment risks have been minimized by including only such equipment and
capital works as are deemed essential to project success. The possibility that the proposed project
could be damaged by conflict of interests within NTA (as had happened to other projects set up with
outside funding), has been minimized by giving the proposed project autonomy of control. Two
strategies are used to effect this autonomy: (a) provision for a technical assistant project controller,
and (b) situating the project production unit some distance from mainstream NTA activities.
Additional risks involve the difficulty of producing locally relevant materials in sufficient quantities
for a heterogeneous population; the inexperience of the NTA in implementing IDA projects; the
difficulty of coordinating civil works, equipment provision and installation with production; problems
in distributing the materials; and inevitable risks associated with the coordination of several d!sparate
groups. These risks have been addressed in the project through measures designed to maximize local
input to program content and production; providing technical assistants to match local counterparts
and tra h them in project-specific skills; agreeing a detailed implementation plan; piloting and
monitoring various distribution mechanisms to allow for immediate improvement; and esublishing
clear coordinating procedures.
67.    Recommendatio. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the ExTecutive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 9, 1993



- 23 -
SchEdWle A
EDDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGEIU
DEMWELPME5 COMMUNICATION PILOT P-ROIECr
EstMimae Costs and Financing Plan
Estimate Costs:
- (USS million)-
1.    Produce and Acquire
Instructional Mateials                            1.20       0.92       2.12
2.    Distribute Instructional Materials                0.09        0.32       0.41
3.    Provide Reinforcement of the Materials            0.04        0.01       0.05
4.    Institutonal Capacity Building                     1.78       3.16       4.93
5.    Initiate and Test a Model                         0.20        0.28       0.48
Total Base Costs                                             4& a
Physical Contingencies                           0.33        0.47       0.80
Itice Contingencies                              0.49        0.66       1.15
Duties and taxes                                 0.29        0.00       0.29
Total Project Cost                           4A l4                  I23
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign     IQ1
- (US$ million) -
IDA                                              2.57         5.46      8.03
NTA                                              1.71         0.00      1.71
UNICEF, BVL                                      0.14         0.35      0.49
Total                                                         JA42  8  102



-24-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
PEDIRAL REPULIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COAMMNICAIION P-ILOT PRONEC
Ptocurement Metho  and Disbusemnt
Amounts and Method of Procurement
(US$ million)
(IDA share in parentheses)
Catotor                                                           ICB     LCB   Othe        NBPca
(1) Cil Wors
1.1 Infras_ucur                                                 1.784                                 1.784
(2) Goods and Servies
2.1 Equipment/Machney
TV production Equipment                                 1.395                                 1.395
Video distribution ,nd recepton                                         0.031      0.091      0.122
Reprographi                                                             0.026                 0.026
Funiue                                                           0.189  0.078                 0267
Vehicle                                                          0.288             0279       0.566
Subtoa                                        1.395    0.477  Q.1_370               ZM
2.2 Mteal
Producion of pchool progras                                             0.649                 0.649
Production of social mesages                                            0.417                 0.417
Producton of pntd materiab                                              1.460                 1.460
Producton of bining program                                             0.016                 0.016
Subtotal                                                      2t.S4      0.0        24
2.3 ComroditieS
Aequisiion of video progams                                      0.033  O.l8                  0.171
Subal, Goods                                  1.395    O      2.8tS      0.370 29L
(3) Consullancies
3.1 ResearcWh/Monitoring & Evauation
Research                                                                0.181                 0.181
Monitoring and evaluaton                                                0.025      0.2S       0.00
3.2 Technical assdance                                                           0.618                0.618
3.3 Traning                                                                      0.585      0.045     0.629
Subtotal                                                       1409      0.07       1479
(4) Mlsclos
4.1 Incemeal adnstraiv and operaional osts                                       0.117      0.078     0.195
4.2 Incremental staff salaries                                                              1.389      1.389
4.3 Dutie an  axes                                                                          0.293     0.293
Subtotal                                                      0.117       1.760     1.877
Total                                         3.180       I0  4          a         Am
Of which IDA financed                         (3.180)  (0.510) (4.341)              (8.030)
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 25 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Amount Allocated     Percentage of Expenditure to be
Category      (US$ m)   (SDR m)   Allocated financed by IDA Credit
1. Civil Works    1.61    1.18         100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditures
2. Goods         4.37     3.21         100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditures
3. Consultancies  1.29    0.95         100% of foreign expenditures
50% of local expenditures
4. Incremental
operational
costs        0.11     0.08          100% of local expenditures
5. Unallocated    0.65    0.48
Total IDA amount  80      la
Estimated II)A D)isburemem
IDA Fiscal Year
1994        1995          1996         1997         1998
(US$ million)
Amount:
Anua                       2.53        2.59          1.39        1.04         0.48
Cumlaive                   2.53        5.12         6.51         7.55         8.03
Percentage:
Annual                31.6%        32.2%        17.3%        12.9%         5.9%
Cumulative            31.6%       63.8%         81.1%        94.1%       100.0%
Note: Totals may not add up due to munding.



.26-
Schedule C
EDERAL REPUB  OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT POECT=
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time take to prepare:                                 8 months
(1) Project prepared by:                                  Government, with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mission:                                    November, 1991
(d) Appraisal mission departure:                         July, 1992
(e) Negotiations:                                         December, 1992
(t) Planned Date of Effectiveness:                       June 30, 1993
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:
(J) PPAR No. 2498: Nigeria - First Eucati  Project (Cr. 72-UNI), dated May 7, 1979
(ii) PPAR No. 3681: Nigeria - Second E'sucation Project (Ln. 814-UNI), dated November 16, 1981
(dii) PPAR No. 5178: Nigeria - Third Education Project (Ln. 929-UNI), dated June 29, 1984



- 27 -
Schedule D
Page I of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of Decembet 31, 1992)
Amount In Us mlion
sorrowerk Pupos  :DnkUnA                                       Undisbursed
Fifty-one loans and two credits fully disbursed                       3.198.2     39.9
Of which SALs and Program Loans a>
301 1-UNI          89    Nigeria    Trade & Investment Policy         (500.0)
275S-UN1           87    Nigetia    Trade Policy & Export Devt        (452.0)
2376-UNI           84    NBCI         Small/Medium Scale Industry 1     26.9                  0.5
2390-UNI           84    NNPC        Gas Technical Assistance           13.1                  5.6
2436-UNI           84    Nigeia      Intrated Agric Devt (Kaduna)      122.0                 38.2
2480-UN!           85    Nigeria     Technicd Assistance                13.0                  5.1
2503-UNI           85    Nigeria    Sokoto Health                       34.0                 17.4
2528-UN1           85    Nigeria     Borno State Water Supply           72.0                 26.6
2607-UNI           86    Nigeria      Urban Development 11 (Imo)        53.0                 16.2
2618-UN!           86    Nigeria    Industry Tech Assiance               5.0                  2.6
2620-UNI           86    Nigeria    Lagos Solid Wase & Storm.           72.0                 10.4
2733-UNI           86    Nigeria      Multi-State Agric Devt 1         162.0                 44.4
2734-UNI           86    Nigeda      Transport Parastatals              20.9                  7.1
2737-UNI           87    Nigeta       Livedock Development 11           71.0                 29.4
2741-UNI           87    Nigeria    South Borno Agric Devt              25.0                 11.2
2760-UNI           87    Nigeria      Foresty 11                        71.0                 30.0
2925-UNI           88    Nigeria    Infrastructure Devt Fund            69.5                 48.4
2926-UNI           88    Nigeria    Technical Education                 23.3                  2.7
2963-UNI           88    Nigeria     Highway Sector                    250.0                207.5
2985-UN!           89    Nigeria      Lagos State Water Supply         173.2                162.1
2988-UNI           89    Nigeria      Multi-State Agric Devt n          85.2                 54.8
2995-UNI           89    Nigeria    Private Small & Mod Enter. Dev     270.0                230.2
3034-UNI           89    Nigera      Imo Headth & Population            27.6                 25.4
2035-UNI (CR)    89    Nigera        Third Multi-Stato Agric Devt        0.0     100.9       64.4
3104-UN!           89    Nigeria     Refineries Rehabilitation          27.7                 22.2
3116-UNI           89    NEPA        Power System Maintenance           70.0                 52.1
3125-UNI           90    NigeIa    Esenti Drugs                         68.1                 61.1
3126-UNI           90    Nigeria    Tree Crops                         106.0                102.0
3183-UN!           90    Nigeria     National Seed and Quarantine       14.0                 13.2
* 2139-UNI (CR)    90    Nigeri         Federal Universies Devt            0.0    120.0       121.7
3236-UN!           90    NITEL       Telecommunicatns                  225.0                214.1
3238-UN!           90    Nigeria     Oyo Stato Urban                    50.0                 48.5
2191-UNI (CR)    91    Nigedra       Primary Education                   0.0    120.0       118.7
2238-UNI (CR)    91    Nigeria       Nationl Population                  0.0      78.5       72.1
2261-UNI (CR)    91    Nigeria       National Agrictltural Research      0.0      78.0       80.4
3317-UNI           91    NNPC        Oso Condensaft                    218.0                 56.2
3322-UNM           91    Nigeria     Water Rehabltation                256.0                242.6
3326-UNI           91    Nigera      Health System Fund                 70.0                 68.8
3451-UNI           92    Nigeria     National Fadama Dev b>             67.5                 67.5
3483-UNI           92    Nigeri      Agric Tech Support b>              42.5                 42.5
2353-UNI (CR)    92    Nigeria       Environmena Management b>                    25.0       25.9
2372-UN! (CR)    92    Nigeria       Multi State Water b>                        101.0      102.7
2415-UN   (CR)    93    Niga         Multi State Roads b>                         68.0       68.5
2431-UNI (CR)    93    Nigeria    Economic Management Tech. Ass. b>               20.0       20.2
TOTAL                                                      6,72.7    751.3    2,641.0
of which has been repaid                                  1A429A      13.6
Totd now hed by Bank and IDA                              4,643.4    737.7
Amount sold                                        16.8
of which has been repaid                           16.8
Total undisbursed                                   1,966.5    674.6    2,641.1
a> Approved during or after FY80
b> Not yet effective.
* SAL, SECAL or Program Loan



- 28 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Dceomber 31, 1992)
lnvestmen    - 1:Iacal                      Typos of               Lod        E ty        Ttl
-Nu mber       Year      ObligBe Busie                             (Amount in US$ million)
68 UNI        1964    NMDB                  Dove Finance                         1.4        1.4
70 UNI        1964    Arewa Textles Ltd.   Textile Mfg.               6.0        0.6        7.S
121 UNI       1967
1970
2140 UNI      1992
246 UNI       1973    Funtua                Food ProcessnAg           1.6                   1.6
482 UNI       1980    Nigeria Textle Mills  Textiles                 22.8        0.7       23.5
962 UNI       1987      Ltd.
285 UNI       1974    Laflag Sugar          Food Processing                      0.1        0.1
S40 UNI       1981    lkeh Hotel            Tourism                  12.0        1.5       13.5
720 UNI       1985
990 UNI       1988
1145UN1       1989    NEW                   iron&Steel               11.1                  11.1
724 UNI       1985    Tiger Batey           Dry-coll Batteries        7.2                   7.2
1222 UNI      1990
247 UNI       1973    NIGALEX               Non-Ferrous Metals        1.0        0.3        1.3
1000 UNI      1988    Dunlop Nigeria       Motor VehIcles and        12.5                  12.5
Accessories
1225 UNI      1990    Afcott Nigeria        Vegetable Oil            4.5                    4.5
2137 UNI      1991    NAMBL                 Moncy/Capltal Markets    10.0                  10.0
2139 UNI      1991    Mobil Nigeria         Petroleum               170.0                 170.0
2430 UNI      1991    VICODA                Manufactuing              0.1                   0.1
2582 UNI      1991    Stark !naustries      Manufacturing             0.3                   0.3
2136 UNI      1991    Agro-Tech Svcs        Food Processing           1.0                   1.0
2583 UNI      I1       Vincent Steel        Manufacturing             0.8                   0.8
1992    NFDH-FSDH            Capital Markets                      1.0         1.0
Total gross oommitments                                  261.8        5.6      267.4
Lees cancellations, termiaons, exchmge
adjutments, rapaymente and sales                         59.3        2.6       61.9
Totd commitment now held by IFC                          2.5          30       205.5
Total undisbursed                                         74.3        0.0       74.3



- 29 -
Schedule D
Page 3 of 3
NIGERIA - IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
The Department has taken several actions to deal with generic implementation issues such as weak
institutions and project management, slow procurement, and inadequate counterpart funding. These actions
include: (a) appointment of a procurement specialist and a local accountant in the Resident Mission; (b)
appointment of Portfolio Managers in all sector divisions; (f.) establishment of an implementation task force
to formulate actions to deal with cross-sectoral problems and to coordinate actions to clean-up the portfolio
through the redesign of projects, reallocation of funds to viable components and cancellation of loan
components which cannot be turned around; (d) a more pro-active role for the Resident Mission in
implementation by wo-kiog even more closely with state-levsl officials; (d) increased emphasis on Sector
Implementation Reviews (SIRs) to be followed by a redesigned Country Implementation Review (CIR). The
Resident Mission is also continuing efforts to meet with the new State Governors. In addition, a number of
new initiatives have been put in place to strengthen the implementation process. For example, a new
supervision strategy has been adopted for the agricult-re sector; in order to engage state governments on
generic and sector issues in a more effective manner, task management for supervision is being allocated by
state rather than by project, as there are agricultural projects in all 30 states. Total disbursements in FY92
amounted to US$344.7 million compared with US$208.4 million in FY91.
A number of portfolio reviews have taken place since early 1992 to identify specific actions for slow
disbursing projects, including possible cancellation of funds unlikely to be used in the next three years, the
use of upcoming loan closing dates to agree on timebound specific project actions, as well as areas for project
restructuring in accordance with Bank guidelines. Total cancellations agreed with the Government now total
$250 million, of which $208 million have so far been processed for cancellation.
In addition, new initiatives are being launched by the Department. The Region has made additional
resources available to help accelerate implementation of Nigeria's portfolio. These resources will further
strengthen the staff and operations of the Resident Mission which is playing an increasing role in project
supervision. Furthermore, eight projects have been identified for special emphasis based on implementation
lags. Half of these projects support the social sectors, and the average level of commitment is over $100
million. Special action plans have been developed for all eight projects to reflect the primary sources of delay:
decision-making, procurement and counterpart funding.
To address the wider concerns of adequate budgetary allocation for timely counterpart funding, the
task force on implementation has developed a comprehensive table of counterpart funding requirements for
each ongoing project over the next two years broken down by federal and state level contribution. This has
been shared with the government for their use in financial planning. It is also intended to serve as a usefil
budgetary guideline for the Transition Council and new civilian government.
February 5, 1993



S~~~~ 0
CHAD
r       c               ~~~~~~~~    ~~             ~~N I G E R  8s
FASO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sA~Su~Re
BENIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~A1fA
_ COMMUONoCj^;enN~~~~COMMNIAO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tagt Stte



