Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11236-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 9, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
December, 1992
Currency Unit: Naira (P)
USS1.00 = N19.56
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BVL                       Bernard Van Leer Foundation
ECCDE                     Early Child Care Development and Education
ETU                       Education Television Unit
ETV                       Educational Television
FMEYD                     Federal Ministry of Education and Youth Development
FMIC                      Federal Ministry of Information and Culture
IFESH                     International Foundation for Education and Self-Help
IWS                       International Women's Society
JCC                       Joint Consultative Committee
JMA                       Jamniyyar Matan Arewa
LGA                       Local Government Area
NAERLS                    National Agricultural Extension and Liaison Services
NCE                       National Council on Education
NCWS                      National Council of Women's Societies
NERDC                     Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council
NETC                      National Educational Technology Center
NPWA                      National Progressive Women's Association
NTA                       Nigerian Television Authority
NTAPD                     Nigerian Television Authority Program Directorate
OMEP                      Organisation Mondiale pour l'Education Prescolaire
UBE                       Universal Basic Education
UNICEF                    United Nations' Children's Fund
UPE                       Universal Primary Education
SCHOOL YEAR
September I - July 31
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
EDUCATION SYSTEM
Primary                   Grades I to 6
Junior Secondary          Grades 7 to 9
Senior Secondary          Grades 10 to 12
University Education      Grades 13 to 16
Teacher Education         Grades 13 to 14/15
Technical Education
& Vocational Training     Grades 13 to 14/15
MEDIA AVAILABILITY AND COVERAGE
Newspapers: 55 Newspapers covering 30% of the population
Radio: 11.4 million homes with radio sets, covering 75% of the population
TV: 31 stations; 3 million TV sets; reaching 36% of the population



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................                                                                          v
I. INTRODUCTION    ................................................   1
II. BACKGROUND  INFORMATION  ......................................  2
A.  Social Setting   ................................................   2
B.  The Nigerian Education System   .....................................   3
Formal Education  ..........................................   3
Non-Formal Education  .......................................   3
Early Childhood Education   ....................................   4
C.  The Media in Nigeria  ...........................................   6
D.  The Media and Education  ........................................   10
The Use of the Media in Education  ..............................   10
Worldwide Experience of Television Projects  ........................   10
E. Issues to be Addressed  ..........................................    10
F. Government Strategy  ...........................................   10
G. Bank Policy and Sectoral Strategy  ...................................   11
H. Past and On-going Bank Operations in Nigeria  ...........................   12
III. THE PROJECT   ................................................    13
A.  Project Origin  ...............................................    13
B.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Strategies   ............................   13
C.  Detailed Project Description  ......................................    14
Instructional Materials Provision    ...............................   14
Instructional Materials Dissemination  .............................   16
Reinforcement of Instruction   ..................................   16
Creation of an Institutional Framework  ............................   17
Establishment of a Model  ....................................   18
D.  Project Costs and Financing   ......................................   21
IV.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ...................................   23
A.  Status of Project Preparation and Readiness .............................   23
B.  Project Coordination and Management ................................   23
C.  Implementation of the Project Components  .............................   23
D.  Environmental Impact ..........................................   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in Nigeria in June/July 1992. The mission
consisted of E. Nkwanga (Task Manager), J. Woo (Project Officer), M. Llanos (Early Childhood
Education Consultant) and S. Miller (Educational Television Consultant). L. Wolff (LATHR) was the
Peer Reviewer. E. Nkwanga, J. Woo, K. McLean, and Betty Casely-Hayford prepared this report.
I. Porter and E. Lim are the Division Chief and Department Director respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



iv
E. Impact on Women  ...........              ........................  24
F. Effect on Poverty Reduction ...................................    25
G. Sustainability and Expansion ...................................    25
H. Specialist Services ...........           ........................  25
I.  Procurement ...................................  27
J.  Disbursements ...................................                                29
K. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .................................  30
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................           ........................  32
A. Expected Benefits ....................................... 32
B. Project Risks and Actions to Minimize Them .........     ...................  32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................... 35
ANNEXES
1.1    Basic Data Sheet
2.1    Structure of the Education and Training System
2.2    Major Social Problems and Messages
2.3    Structure of the Nigerian Television Authority
2.4    Structure of NTA Program Directorate
2.5    NTA Commercialization Performance Agreement
2.6    NTA Projected Revenue
2.7    Overview of Previous Educational Television Projects
3.1    Project Objectives and Target Groups
3.2    Distribution and Reinforcement
3.3    Studio Design and Production Equipment
3.4    Staffing, Technical Assistance and Training
3.5    Project Management Structure
3.6    Pre-Production and Production Schedule
3.7    Monitoring and Evaluation
3.8    Research Studies
3.9    Summary of Project Costs and Financing
4.1    Annual and Mid-Term Targets
4.2    Implementation Schedule
4.3    Supervision Plan
4.4    The Educational Television Unit's Financial Flow Statement
4.5    Procurement Timetable
4.6    Disbursement Schedule
5.1    Benefits and Sustainability
5.2    Potential Risks and Measures to Obviate Them.
Documents in the Project File
Map: IBRD 24280R



THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrow:    Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries: Nigerian Television Authority.
Amount:      SDR 5.9 million (US$ 8.03 million equivalent)
1Trms:       Standard, with 35 years maturity
Description:  The main objective of the proposed five-year project is to pilot a method to support
early childhood development. To do this the project would: (a) provide, disseminate
and reinforce instructional materials for preschool aged children; (b) promote early
childhood development; (c) sensitize parents to early childhood needs and care; (d)
enhance caregivers' knowledge and competencies; (e) create the institutional and
infrastructural framework for quality educational and developmental television
programming; and (f) introduce replicable modalities of educational and social
program development, monitoring and evaluation. In implementing these objectives
the project supports the establishment of a replicable model to manage the production,
distribution, reinforcement and evaluation of instructional materials and social
messages. It would finance: (a) the production and acquisition of videos for
instruction and social messaging and printed support materials; (b) the distribution of
these materials through network transmission, video-on-wheels and local viewing
centers; (c) the production of videos to train caregivers; (d) a dedicated television
production facility with studio, production equipment, spare parts and maintenance
training; (e) overseas and on-the-job training; (f) production, procurement and
monitoring and evaluation consultants; and (g) research, monitoring and evaluation.
Benefits:    The project targets preschool children aged three to six years four million of whom
(36 percent) already have access to television. For those that do not, the project will
target children in centers in 15 Local Government Authorities (LGA) in ten states
(Annex 3.1). It covers villages, rural and urban market-based community care
centers, high density urban areas, private preschools, and homes, targeting children
and their caregivers and parents. It reinforces the work of these centers through the
use of videos and printed support materials aimed at developing basic communication
and social skills in children, better knowledge and teaching skills among the
caregivers and improved early childcare among parents. The project provides
facilitators to consolidate instruction and monitor its impact. A special television
production unit will be established at NTA to develop the videos and printed
materials. Instructional materials will be distributed to homes through NTA network
transmissions and to more remote areas through video-on-wheels and local viewing
centers. They may be bought by private preschools. The project pilots a production,
distribution and evaluation model for educational materials that involves the
simultaneous use of electronic and print media and which, if successful, may provide
an exemplar for other countries.



vi
Risks:        Investment risks have been minimized by including only such equipment and capital
works as are deemed essential to project success. Since a number of key specialists
would be recruited from non-governmental sources, this project would need autonomy
of control and clarity of objectives. Two strategies are used to effect this autonomy:
(a) provision for a technical assistant project coordinator, and (b) situating the project
production unit some distance from mainstream NTA activities. Another possible
risk, mismanagement, is addressed by giving the project coordinator managerial
control over project planning, implementation and financing. The project coordinator
can orchestrate the coordination between equipment procurement, acquisition and
installation and the preproduction of video programs that are essential to project
success. Also, while capital investments will need to be made soon after project
effectiveness, production will be completed in stages, availability of funding for each
stage being dependent upon the success of the preceding one.



vii
Estimated Project Costs:'!
Foreign    TIai
(US$ million) ----
1.    Produce and Acquire
Instructional Materials                           1.20        0.92       2.12
2.     Distribute Instructional Materials                0.09        0.32       0.41
3.    Provide Reinforcement of the Materials             0.04        0.01       0.05
4.    Institutional Capacity Building                    1.78        3.16       4.93
5.    Initiate and Test a Model                          0.20        0.28       0.48
Total Base Costs                                  3 3         4.68       7.99
Physical Contingencies                            0.33        0.47       0.80
Price Contingencies                               0.49        0.66       1.15
Duties and taxes                                  0.29        0.00       0.29
Total Project Costs                          4.41 4L                Q1.23
Financing Plan (US$ millions):'!
LocQa      Forein      Tota
IDA                                               2.57         5.46      8.03
NTA                                               1.71         0.00      1.71
UNICEF, BVL                                       0.14         0.35      0.49
Total                                   4.42         5,81      1023
Estimated Credit Disbursements (USS millions):
IDA Fiscal Years    1994       i199            1996         1997         19
Annual               2.53        2.59          1.39         1.04         0.48
Cumulative             2.53         5.12         6.51         7.55         8.03
Economic Rate
of Return:                  Not applicable
Map:       IBRD No: 24280R
'/ Totals may not add due to rounding.






THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Nigerian Government and Bank education sectoral policies acknowledge that early childhood
education is critical to personal, social and national development. Similarly, both institutions stress
the importance of access to information, recognizing the tremendous potential of media use to address
developmental issues. This pilot project combines these two policies by applying one medium,
television, to issues of preschool education and social development. The timing is particularly
appropriate for four reasons. Internationally there is a growing recognition of the importance of early
childhood education; Nigerian parents are increasing their demand for preschools; non-formal
attempts at provision require support through the exploration of new methods to supplement
instruction, train teachers and educate parents; and there is a growing urgency to prepare the ground
for the introduction of mass approaches to development in countries where the deleterious
consequences of economic and social decline are becoming increasingly obvious.
1.2    There is growing evidence on the positive impact of early childhood education on the child's
short term physical, psychological, social and emotional growth, on his ability to benefit from formal
education, and on his later contribution to society.
1.3    Although preschool education is included in Nigeria's National Policy on Education, with
insufficient funds to sustain the quality of existing educational facilities, the Government cannot afford
to provide public education for an estimated 13 million children between three and six years of age.
In response to growing public demand an increasing number of early childhood care centers are being
established by private, corporate and community bodies. Situated in purpose-built accommodation,
private homes, rural community centers, urban and rural markets, churches and mosques, or attached
to existing primary schools, they cater to a broad range of social groups and bring together young
children, caregivers and, in many cases, parents and other family members. A national curriculum is
in process of adoption. However, preschools frequently have only meager instructional materials, a
substantial number of caregivers are untrained and even illiterate, and many parents have inadequate
knowledge of proper child care and of how to provide their children with good health, adequate
nutrition and a clean safe environment. Hence there is need to supply instructional materials, train
caregivers and educate parents.
1.4    Reaching such a broadly dispersed preschool population and fulfilling each of the above aims
efficiently and effectively calls for a novel approach since this involves complex coordination of
relevant interest groups in the production, distribution and reinforcement of instructional/information
materials. Various media have been used for educational delivery, print being most common, with
radio next and television being the least used. The print medium is not an effective means of
targeting very young children and illiterate adults in Nigeria where the estimated literacy rate is 50.7
percent (40.5 percent among women). Radio, primarily a rural medium, covers 75 percent of the
population and is more suitable for a literate target group since it lacks visual animation which is so
important for children and illiterate people. Television has a high penetration rate. It is watched
daily by about 36 percent of the population. Already it reaches 28 percent of the people in rural
areas. It is a potentially good vehicle for delivering educational and social messages to all categories
of viewers in that it has visual and, therefore, immediate appeal; is accessible by viewers of different
ages and with a wide range of literacy levels; can reach large sectors of the community quickly and
conveniently; and can educate, inform and entertain in a single package. However, the experience of
television for educational purposes has been mixed and considerable care is needed to control



difficulties encountered in past projects. For example, inadequate cost-effectiveness is among
problems encountered in short term small-scale projects involving a single distribution method.
Although the initial investment costs of any project incorporating television are unavoidably high, in a
country with as large a population as Nigeria's, television could prove cost-effective within a short
period of time provided the production and distribution methods were efficient. Commitment has
been demonstrated to be vital in project success. The Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) has
demonstrated commitment to fulfilling its educational and developmental mandate by planning to set
up a dedicated unit for these purposes. There is substantial and increasing demand for preschool
education materials by providers, communities and parents. Program productions will initially target
the preschool-age population, caregivers and parents.
1.5    At a more general level, Africa is lagging further behind in development, mainly due to its
marginalization in relation to other less developed countries and a growing technology gap between
the continent and the rest of the world. There is a need, not merely to bridge the gap, but to make a
technological leap. Modern technologies are advancing very rapidly and may soon be able to answer
the intractable questions of how to reach the disadvantaged groups that are typically on the periphery
of media reach, to make electronic media more interactive - providing immediate feedback to the
student, to give teachers the necessary skills to use the media effectively and to achieve all this at
minimum unit cost. Under such conditions larger populations should have access to education and
social messages.
1.6    The proposed project pilots a model to produce, distribute, reinforce and evaluate video and
print support materials that will supplement preschool instruction, train teachers and provide parents
with information on child-care and with social messages. On project completion, in addition to the
immediate project benefits, a bank of video and printed instructional materials will be accessible for
further dissemination; production staff will have benefitted from skills upgrading; trained distribution,
teaching and evaluation staff will be available to extend project benefits; and the nucleus of either a
fully-fledged educational television facility or a development communication unit will have been
established.
1.7    The Government is seeking the World Bank's assistance in financing a pilot project to
produce, disseminate, reinforce and monitor and evaluate these materials and their effectiveness. The
project would be implemented by the NTA, UNICEF, NGOs and private preschool proprietors, with
the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture (FMIC) generally overseeing activities.
II. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
A.    Social Setting
2.1    Social indicators reveal the majority of Nigerians live in very poor and in some instances
deteriorating social conditions, despite substantial income from oil production. Life expectancy in
Nigeria averaged 51 years for 1989, in contrast to 62 years for all low-income countries in 1988.
The infant mortality rate in 1989 was 100 per 1000 live births, in comparison to 70 per 1000 births
for low-income countries. Malnutrition is very extensive. Daily caloric was 2,039 in 1988 compared
to an average of 2,331 for all low-income countries. In 1987, 63 percent of preschoolers in Nigeria
had protein-energy malnutrition; and in 1990, 50 percent of all children between 2-5 years were
stunted. The adult literacy rate is 49.3 percent (1991). Primary school enrollment was 62 percent in



-3 -
1988, a significant decline from an enrolment rate of 93 percent in 1983. Over the same period the
female share of the enrollments did however increase from 39 percent to 45 percent. The secondary
education enrollment rate was 18 percent for 1989.
B.    The Ni2erian Education System
Structure and Achievements
Formal Education
2.2     Nigerian formal education has a 6-3-34 structure, including six years of primary education,
three of junior secondary, three of senior secondary and four years of tertiary education (Annex 2.1).
Limited preprimary and adult education also exists. There are about 35,000 primary schools, 45
federal (unity) colleges and 5,884 state secondary schools; there are also 21 federal, one military and
eight state universities. In addition, there are 120 technical secondary schools (one federal and 119
state), and ten federal and 17 state post-secondary polytechnics. Currently about 14 million students
are enrolled in primary schools and three million in secondary schools. Enrollments in all forms of
tertiary education total about 350,000, of which 150,000 are in universities, 130,000 in
technical/vocational institutions and the rest in teacher training or other specialized institutions.
Government policy as stated in the National Policy on Education (1979, revised in 1981 and 1990) is
to provide free universal primary education (UPE), moving towards universal basic education (UBE).
Students pay fees in all state post-primary educational institutions and some costs in federal secondary
schools and universities.
2.3    The 1979 Nigerian Constitution defines the authority of the federal, state and local
governments for each type and level of formal education. The Federal Ministry of Education and
Youth Development (FMEYD) is responsible for formulating educational policy and national
development plans; it coordinates national educational practices, exercises quality control, and
maintains standards among the states. In addition, several post-primary institutions are FMEYD's
direct responsibility, including the federal unity colleges which fall under its Primary and Secondary
Education Directorate. The states are responsible for implementing policies formulated by the federal
government and for preparing and adapting procedures; they develop rules, guidelines and manuals,
train staff, and implement most educational programs. They have primary responsibility for
secondary education. The 589 local government authorities are responsible for primary education
provision through local government education authorities. The structures for delivering education
vary widely from state to state. In many states autonomous organizations have been established to
share responsibilities with the state ministries.
Non-Formal Education
2.4     Active interest in adult education at the state and federal levels did not take place in Nigeria
until the mid-1970s. This late development may be attributed to the fact that there has not been a
central authority liable for the provision of adult education or, more accurately, adult literacy, thereby
increasing the likelihood of shifting responsibility from one ministry to another. Currently, Federal
and State Ministries of Education are responsible for the provision of adult and nonformal education,
as stated in the National Policy on Education. The policy objectives of adult and continuing education
are to: (a) provide functional literacy education for adults who have not had the advantage of formal
schooling; (b) offer functional literacy and remedial education for young people who prematurely
dropped out of formal schooling; (c) provide further education for different categories of formal



education completers in order to improve their basic knowledge and skills; (d) give inservice on-the-
job vocational and professional training for different categories of workers and professionals to
upgrade their skills; and (e) give adults the necessary aesthetic, cultural and civic education for
enlightenment.
2.5    Despite these official declarations, Nigeria has had a poor record in the provision of adult
literacy. Both at federal and state levels, insufficient and belated efforts have largely contributed to
an adult literacy rate estimated at 49.3 percent. The illiteracy rate among adult women is estimated
at 59.5 percent. This means that a large segment of the population is unable to follow instructions on
posters, street signs, and drug prescriptions, increasing the reliance on verbal communication of
information. National literacy campaigns of 1982 and 1990, designed to combat the serious literacy
problem, have not fully materialized, due to activities that were poorly planned, uncoordinated,
attempted by too many disparate organizations and government institutions at different political levels,
and grossly under-funded. In both campaigns, the central planning and coordinating body envisaged
in the policy design was not set up in time. The proposed National Commission for Mass Literacy,
Adult and Non-formal Education was not inaugurated until July 9, 1991. Since plans are
uncoordinated the current mass literacy campaign may run into similar deadlocks of previous
programs.
2.6    Adult education provision is complex with a plethora of programs being offered by different
public and private organizations at all governmental levels. Existing adult education programs in
Nigeria include adult literacy courses provided by the federal and state agencies; programs provided
by universities; sectoral oriented programs such as those directed to farmers which are designed to
teach as well as provide information; health-related programs designed to control diseases such as
AIDS, intectious and contagious illnesses, and other types of programs providing the population with
information on health care; family planning, maternal and child health care programs run by sectoral
ministries at both state and federal levels; and programs designed to teach road safety to taxi drivers.
In addition, there are several private sector skill-oriented programs such as driver education,
budgeting and accounting for small businessmen, and special interest programs for women, all of
which have had some success.
Early Childhood Education
2.7     The National Policy on Education stresses the importance of the early years of life during
which children learn through non-formal means. Preprimary education should (a) effect a smooth
transition between home and school, (b) prepare the child for primary education, (c) provide adequate
care and supervision for children, (d) inculcate social norms, and (e) teach good habits, especially in
health. Despite this emphasis upon early childhood education and the fact that preschool children
constitute 25 percent of the total population, with approximately 15 percent (13 million) between three
and six years old, the government is not involved in preschool education. This remains the
prerogative of the private sector - communities, NGOs, employers, and private proprietors. Since
fees in private institutions are expensive for most parents of preschool age children only an estimated
five percent attend formal kindergartens and preschools but a much smaller attend less formal
institutions.
2.8    The status of early childhood educaticn. There are a variety of different modalities of early
childhood education provision. The service is offered within structures that bear many different
names from preschools to kindergartens, nursery schools, women's centers, community groups and so
forth. The proprietors vary from private individuals to women's groups, NGOs, universities,



-5-
government ministries and religious bodies. No accurate records are available on pre-primary
education facilities although, in theory, they are at least overseen by state and local government
authorities with which they should be registered. Some figures are available for the following states
in the years indicated: Ogun (1987) - 11 facilities; Oyo (1987) - 131; Rivers (1988) - 128; Kano
(1988) - 100; Plateau (1988) - 123; Bauchi (1988) - 16; Borno (1988) - 67; and Lagos (1992) - 250.
For some time Organisation Mondiale Pour l'Education Prescolaire (OMEP), frequently with funding
from the Bernard Van Leer Foundation, has supported preschools. The organization currently has a
project covering two administrative areas of Mushin Local Government Authority in Lagos. OMEP
chapters are active in several other states. More recent support has been given by UNICEF in
collaboration with the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC). These
efforts, covering a further eight states, are generally rural-based and concentrate upon village
community centers and groups, local mosques and churches, and both rural and urban markets. They
are closely associated with women's development programs. Occasional provision is made by such
NGOs as the National Progressive Women's Association (NPWA) in Kwara and Osun states, the
Northern Women's Association (JMA) in Kaduna and Kano, and the International Women's Society
(IWS) in Lagos. Extensive research would undoubtedly uncover many other initiatives.
2.9    Orientation of activities. Most preschools and day care centers focus on academic activities
intended as a preparation for school. This is in response to the parents' expectations and is a
reflection of the traditional kindergarten with its emphasis upon reading, writing and counting.
Consequently, activities tend to be passive and not action-oriented and the curriculum is extremely
narrow.
2.10   Curriculum guidelines. Because this growing non-formal preschool sector required support
and conceptual guidance a new curriculum was developed by the NERDC to provide guidelines on
content, methodology and resource requirements. This curriculum was discussed by the relevant Joint
Consultative Committee (JCC) and presented to the National Council on Education (NCE) in
September, 1992.
2.11   The curriculum, intended to guide the caregiver, contains seven components:
(a)    physical development (inventory of personal data and stages of development);
(b)   social development (interaction with others);
(c)    mental and language development (exploration and oral communication);
(d)   food and nutrition;
(e)    harmful practices;
(f)    health and disease; and
(g)   safety measures.
These are broken down into objectives for each of three age groups - from birth to two years, two to
three years and three to five plus. A careful review of the curriculum suggests that too little emphasis
is placed on social and mental development. These areas are too general and need to be more clearly
specified to make the curriculum more effective.
2.12   Early childhood education is concerned with total development. Hence curriculum content
should aim at socialization in addition to education. Basic social problems relate to population, health
and nutrition, environmental protection; and related to all these is the role of education. A brief
analysis of the issues and priority messages is in Annex 2.2.



2.13   Impact and problems. A recent and, as far as can be ascertained, the only evaluation of ten
community-based UNICEF assisted Early Child Care Development Education (ECCDE) Centers in
Oyo and Kwara states indicates high levels of effectiveness and acceptance in the ECCDE group as
demonstrated by parents' eagerness to send their children to the centers, willingness to pay for
services or for the purchase of educational materials, the academic performance of the children, and
the demand for such centers by communities not yet involved in the program. Caring for the children
at the centers has given parents better opportunities for productivity through economic pursuits. The
children at the centers have acquired the desired skills of expression in naming, describing,
identifying and counting in addition to spontaneous expression in their mother tongue. Comparison of
these children with those in the control group show better performance by the former in mental,
language, creative and socio-emotional assessments. Respondents recognized the need to train the
caregivers, provide more educational materials, and to refurbish facilities.
2.14   Indications from international experience are that investment in early childhood development
is essential for several increasingly pressing reasons. With greater child survival due to improved
maternal and child health care there is a greater need to ensure that their development responds to
their psychosomatic needs. Children have basic rights, among which is the right of access to all
means of development. Scientific evidence supports early childhood intervention in that brain cells
develop early and require stimulation for continued growth. Children who receive constant care
through interaction with caregivers are less likely to be sick than those deprived of affection and are
more likely to build up successful social relationships in future, and longitudinal studies show the long
term educational benefits of preschooling. Economic returns can be high in that the children are
more productive later in life, there are cost savings on social services, caregivers are more productive
since their time is freed up for economic activities and, with additional information available to them,
they are able to be more efficient in these last endeavors.
C.    The Media in Nigeria
2.15   Media reach. Radio and television, two of the most modern methods of communication, are
widely used in Nigeria. Newspapers cover only 30 percent of the population, despite a circulation of
55 different types of newspapers printed daily and/or weekly. According to UNICEF figures,
television is viewed daily by 35.57 percent of the national population. This includes 63.5 percent of
the urban and 28.13 percent of the rural population. There is some evidence that television has an
even larger viewing public than current figures indicate. Radio covers 75 percent of the population.
There are an estimated three million television sets and an estimated 11.4 million homes with radio
sets in Nigeria. Daily television broadcasting of 60 hours a week are provided by 24 national and 13
state-based television stations; some stations operate longer hours, especially at the weekends. Peak
viewing periods for television are between 7:00 pm and 10:00 pm. weekdays. In addition to the
regular programs such as the news, sports and entertainment, television and radio stations also
broadcast health, education and other social programs in association with government agencies.
Television is ranked as the first in the national advertisement budget, with an estimated 35 percent of
the total revenue, in contrast to radio advertisements at 30 percent.
2.16   The objectives of television broadcasting in Nigeria are to enrich the life of the people and to
educate them through a variety of information and entertainment programs that seek to promote, inter
alia, cultural awareness and civic responsibility. The first television station in Nigeria, indeed the
first in Africa, was established in 1959 by the Western Regional Government of Nigeria. The other
two Regions, East and North, established their own stations shortly after in Enugu and Kaduna,
respectively. The change from regional administration to state governments brought about an increase



-7 -
in the number of television networks, as the new states set up their own in Benin, Jos, Kano, Sokoto,
Calabar, Ilorin, Port-Harcourt and Aba. Currently, the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA)
operates 24 stations throughout Nigeria, including a station in Abuja, the New Federal Capital, and
three in Lagos, the commercial nerve center (one of them is a solely commercial station). The NTA
also runs a Television College in Jos, Plateau State. In addition, there are 13 state-owned television
stations in Nigeria, a situation which further facilitates the availability of the medium to the remote
areas of the country. With the increase in number of states to 31, it is possible that the number of
NTA stations, as well a- state-owned television stations, may increase.
2.17   Independent producers. The television industry in Nigeria has been witnessing an increase in
the number of independent producers. Before entering private television, many of these producers,
either gained working experience from NTA, or benefitted from NTA-organized and sponsored
training programs. Guided by NTA's broadcasting code and guidelines in program production, some
of the independent producers have produced very good programs, ranging from drarna and light
entertainment to enlightenment programs. Presently, about 40 percent of NTA's 25 hours of network
programming is produced by independent producers. This is obviously a growth area that is being
encouraged by the deregulation of the media under a forthcoming decree. Conditions for private
licensing will include a provision that 40 percent of an operator's activities will be program
production. Although NTA and the state television stations are the only agencies involved in
television transmission at present, it is highly likely that private stations will be established soon.
2.18   The Nigerian Television Authority. The Authority was established in 1977 to take charge of
all television services in Nigeria. Its responsibilities include:
(a)    planning and coordinating the activities of the entire television network;
(b)    ensuring the establishment and maintenance of standards and promoting the efficient
operation of the system in accordance with national policy;
(c)    specifying the types of programs which should be transmitted by the network and the
quantity, type and contents of locally produced and foreign materials;
(d)    production, acquisition and sale of television programs;
(e)    organizing, providing and subsidizing, for the purpose of broadcasting, educational
activities and public entertainment;
(f)    production and sale of commercials and sale of air time; and
(g)    providing and organizing training, education and research to upgrade the skills of
television personnel and enhance efficiency of NTA's operations.
2.19   Corporate structure. As a public enterprise under the administration of the Federal Ministry
of Information and Culture (FMIC), NTA operates under a governing board consisting of a chairman,
the Director-General of FMIC, the Director-General of NTA, and seven other members appointed by
the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Under NTA's Director-General are seven
directorates in charge of corporate affairs, programs, news, engineering, commercials, operations,
and finance. Each directorate is headed by a Director. NTA television stations, each headed by a
general manager, produce programs for local consumption in each state, and occasionally for network



- 8 -
transmission. Previously, NTA, as a public enterprise, depended largely on government subvention
but, in preparation for the commercialization of the organization, a significant reduction in subvention
was effected in January, 1991. Today, the organization generally earns its revenue by allowing the
broadcast of sponsored programs, as well as the purchase of spots. However, this is barely sufficient
to cover recurrent costs. Recently, a subsidiary, NTA Enterprises Ltd, was created to explore more
innovative and diversified ways of generating revenues and launch NTA into new business ventures.
An organization chart of NTA is shown in Annex 2.3.
2.20   Program mix. NTA stations are on the air for an average of 60 hours a week, with 25 hours
of network and 35 hours of local programs. Network programs, averaging about 3.5 hours per day
on weekdays and 8-9 hours over weekends, are usually in English, and typically have the following
mix; news (6.5 hours), current affairs (3 hours), drama (4 hours), sports (3.5 hours), public
enlightenment (2 hours), education (3 hours), and youth and children programs (3 hours). Local
programs are usually adapted to the local interests and cultural environment of the state in which the
station is sited.
2.21   Production of programs. The Programs Directorate of NTA (NTAPD) is the major
production center of network programs other than news, which is the responsibility of the News
Directorate. The NTAPD, headed by a Director, is responsible to NTA's Director-General for the
planning, execution, and monitoring of the creative output of the NTA. The NTAPD's other duties
include initiating the corporate program policy of the Authority, preparing and implementing the long
and short-term program plans of the Authority, planning program schedules, commissioning and
syndication of special programs. The Directorate is also responsible for receiving and assessing
program plans, acquiring programs from local and foreign sources, participating in international and
local program festivals, and liaising with outside organizations on programs matters. The NTAPD
consists of five departments - planning and development, projects, entertainment, enlightenment and
zonal coordination, with support units providing services in engineering, administration, commercials,
and finance (see organization chart in Annex 2.4). Ideas for programs may be generated by staff or
external agencies such as individuals and independent producers, advertising agencies, or government
institutions. Following in-house screening of an idea, a pilot is created and assessed by the
management of the NTAPD, before full production begins. Many NTA programs have won
international awards over the past decade. Audience reaction to programs is assessed periodically by
the Directorate of Commercials.
2.22   Regional and state production centers. Each of the 24 NTA stations, otherwise referred to as
Production Centers produce programs for local consumption aimed at satisfying the socio-cultural
needs of their environment. Occasionally they are commissioned to produce programs for network
transmission.
2.23   Co-production with other agencies. The NTA has been involved in a number of successful
co-production projects with international as well as national organizations. Most recent are the 1990
co-production with Soviet Television and the 1991 co-production of a science documentary on
Nigeria's wildlife with Bulgarian Television. Under the co-production arrangement, a mutual
agreement is adopted by the concerned parties, with NTA taking responsibilities within the
organization's resource capabilities mainly in the provision of counter-part staff and available
facilities. Substantial professional knowledge and skills have been acquired by production personnel
through their involvement in these co-production projects. It has, therefore, been an effective method
of manpower development.



-9 -
2.24   Other cooperative programs. In the recent past, resources secured from international
organizations have proved a true lifeline to NTAPD. These organizations, notable among them
UNICEF, EEC and UNDP, have provided equipment, facilities, transport and funds for staff training
as well as for production.
(a)    UNICEF. Following a largely successful 1984 experiment using NTA as the medium
for promoting a UNICEF-supported pilot project linking sanitation and water supply
to the child survival and development revolution, UNICEF identified the immense
potential of television and entered into full-scale collaboration with the Federal
Ministry of Health and the NTA to promote the Child Survival and Development
Revolution in Nigeria. In 1986 NTA started producing a series of programs in
cooperation with UNICEF and the Federal Ministry of Health, which effectively
promote immunization, child care and development. Under the arrangement special
programs, as well as promotional spots and jingles are produced. Child survival
messages are also incorporated into regularly scheduled programs on network (in
English) and on the local channels (in pidgin English and the local languages).
Evidence of the successful reach of these programs was provided by the 18 million
mothers and babies who were immunized in nine days in 1988 - more than the number
immunized in the entire preceding year. Many of them were among the largely
illiterate rural and inner-city population.
(b)    EEC. The NTA recently received from the EEC a complete set of production and
post-production equipment, a production vehicle, a portable cabin furnished with air-
conditioner, and funds for the production of 52 episodes of an NTA initiated
agricultural documentary, "Food Basket", which had previously won an international
award. Under another EEC funded project, the National Agricultural Extension and
Liaison Services (NAERLS), NTAPD will receive one camera chain, one editing suite
and production funds for 52 episodes of another documentary program.
(c)    UNDP. The UNDP has sponsored some NTA staff on overseas training and
attachments. The agency is in the process of providing NTA with some equipment
facilities, as well as funds for production and technical training. The total cost of
UNDP assistance to NTA is estimated at $500,000.
2.25   NTA's commercialization. Under the public enterprise reform program established by Decree
No. 25 of 1988, NTA is being partially commercialized. The Authority signed a performance
agreement on July 7, 1992 (Annex 2.5). Decree 25 defines commercialization as the reorganization
of enterprises wholly or partly owned by the government in which such commercialized enterprises
shall operate as profit-making commercial ventures without subvention from the federal government.
A partially commercialized enterprise will be expected to generate enough revenue to cover operating
expenses but may be considered for government grants to finance capital investments. The objectives
of commercialization are to restructure and rationalize public enterprises to make them more efficient,
effective and cost conscious, to establish and maintain modern and effective accounting systems, to
remove bureaucratic bottlenecks and to improve overall financial and operational performance. Under
commercialization NTA will continue to devote airtime to educational and developmental
programming. This will be facilitated through the increased income generating capacity of the
Authority as a result of upgraded skills, consequent improved program quality, and involvement in
other income-generating activities, such as the sale of merchandise associated with television
characters, a television magazine, and providing production and dubbing services for commerce and



- 10-
industry. NTA's projected revenues are at Annex 2.6.
D.    The Media and Education
The Use of the Media in Education
2.26   There are numerous instances of media use in supporting education. The most frequently
used medium is that of print textbooks are considered to be an indispensable aid to instruction. This
has been confirmed by numerous studies of the positive effects of textbooks on achievement of
students from deprived learning environments. Increasingly, radio is being used interactively to
improve instruction, generally with positive results. Television, however, has received less positive
reviews. In fact, since the sixties and early seventies which saw a number of incursions into
educational television, there have been few television components in Bank-supported projects. This
resulted from the many issues arising from the implementation, sustainability and cost effectiveness of
the early projects. Yet there is no doubt that television can be a very powerful medium with which to
entertain and educate as is evidenced in the international results from Sesame Street productions in
reviews of the impact of television on young children and in the very powerful influence television
exerts over entire populations as in, for example, the United States of America.
Worldwide Experience of Television Projects
2.27    Analyses of Bank-supported projects with educational television components summarize the
attributes of "good" television projects (Annex 2.7). Successful projects generally have incorporated
reliable transmission, readily available receivers, and limited the reach in favor of dependable high
quality broadcasts. Small intensive dynamic projects using television's attributes to the full have
proven most successful.
E.    Issues to be Addressed
2.28   There is a consensus that three issues need to be addressed to improve early childhood
education. These are the lack of educational support materials, the poorly educated and trained
teachers or caregivers, and parents' ignorance of early child care and other social information that
would improve their quality of life. Furthermore, most Nigerian children are not psychologically and
socially prepared to cope with the demands of formal primary education. A major problem is how to
reach this broadly dispersed population in a non-formal sector.
2.29   Issues that should be addressed in the use of Nigerian television for education and
development are the need to raise the quality of productions, to reinforce NTA's developmental
programming mandate, to improve transmission, and to find ways of reaching children in remote
areas.
F.    Government Strategy
2.30 The National Policy on Education advocates the use of radio and television throughout the
education system. To accomplish this the broadcasting services, ministries of education and other
educational agencies are to work collaboratively. The policy provides for the establishment of a
National Education Technology Center (NETC) which, together with the National Teachers' Institute
(NTI), is responsible for producing educational radio and television programs. Since the NETC was
established, few program series have been produced.



- 11 -
2.31   The NETC was established to train educators in the use of technological equipment, methods
and processes so as to make them more effective teachers and to apply educational technology in the
design and production of educational materials for use in educational institutions and over the mass
media. The training courses are outmoded and outdated with very few patrons outside the FMEYD.
Similarly, the overall quality of the video and printed educational materials produced by NETC is
poor primarily because of negligible use of the medium for its advantages. Video is used more as
"visual radio" and creative support by way of animation, graphics or even interesting camera angle
variation is absent. The work being done in print medium is similarly mundane and boring. One
program produced by NETC, JETS (Junior Engineers, Technologists and Scientists), is an exciting
concept for a program badly let down by appalling studio direction and technical facilities. It is an
example of the mistake in letting teachers produce television programs. The basic concept is to invite
children representing a range of schools to come into the studios and demonstrate an application of
appropriate technology that they have been working on. This format, if well produced, would be
applicable as secondary educational material for any developing country. Similar programs are
produced, to much higher standards, in other African countries. As it stands however, JETS is a
very poor example of educational television.
G.    Bank Sectoral Policy and Strateey
2.32   A Bank study, Education in Sub-Saharan Africa: Policies for Adjustment. Revitalization and
Expansion (1988), embraces a policy framework that incorporates the following strategies: (a)
adjustment to current demographic and fiscal realities through diversification of sources of financing
and containment of unit costs; (b) revitalization of existing educational infrastructure to restore and
improve quality, with a renewed commitment to academic standards, an efficient mix of educational
inputs, and greater investment in the operation and maintenance of physical plant and equipment to
increase their utilization; and (c) selective expansion to follow after measures of adjustment and
revitalization have begun to take hold, concentrating on renewed progress toward the long-term goal
of universal primary education, distance education programs, job-related in-service training, and
research and postgraduate education.
2.33   Although the World Bank has no policy statement on preschool education, it is seen as one of
the promising avenues to compensate for deficits in the experience of young children (Improving
Primary Education in Developing Countries (1991)). Through preschools children can be better
prepared for formal schooling and assisted in making the difficult transition from home to school.
They are better able to meet the new demands of primary education and this may well lead to higher
retention rates. Children from disadvantaged home environments find the transition particularly
difficult as they do not live up to the teachers' expectations. They do not know how to behave in a
school setting and have not been exposed to books, numbers or complex verbal directions. The
Headstart program in the USA is cited as a particularly successful example of the preschool as a
means to compensate for an impoverished early environment. Targeting preschools to the children of
families with particularly low incomes or living in poor areas has been effective in developed
countries and is proposed for developing countries.
2.34   The Bank is providing a quality controller for a social mobilization analysis funded by
UNICEF. The study is investigating partners in health programs in Nigeria, the reach and impact of
various modes of communication, the support groups for social messages, and the effectiveness of
UNICEF health campaigns.



- 12 -
2.35   There is no Bank policy statement on the use of television in education. It is noted that it was
used as a medium to enrich instruction in many countries and was successful but not sustainable due
to implementation problems and the removal of external aid. Television has a unique advantage as a
means of educational delivery in that it can respond to urgent national needs more rapidly and on a
wider scale than most other available means. Television program production and dissemination is
more cost effective than building classrooms and training teachers. It can provide a broad range of
aural and visual stimuli to aid concept formation in the very young and to improve knowledge and
skill acquisition in older children and adults. It has a wider sensual impact than radio which research
findings indicate can be effective in increasing achievement. There is, however, no doubt that
preschool programs such as the American-produced "Sesame Street' have been most successful in
attracting young viewers from disadvantaged backgrounds and providing them with basic reading,
writing, number, social and problem solving skills. Versions of the program produced in Spanish,
Arabic, Hebrew, Chinese, German, Dutch, Portuguese and Filipino are as successful as the American
original.
H.    Past and Ongoing Bank Operations in Nigeria
2.36   The Bank has had a limited role in Nigeria's educational development in the past three
decades. There were three projects in education in the 1960s and 1970s, which are now completed,
for US$91.3 million. The First Education Project (Cr. 72-UNI in FY65, for US$20.0 million
equivalent) assisted in increasing secondary school enrollments particularly in northern Nigeria,
diversifying the secondary school curriculum, and increasing the number of secondary and technical
teachers and trained craftsmen and technicians. The Second Education Project (Loan 814-UNI in
FY72, for US$17.3 million) assisted in the rehabilitation of war damaged comprehensive secondary
schools in eastern Nigeria, as well as the training of technical subject teachers and secondary school
curriculum development. The Third Education Project (Loan 929-UNI in FY73, for US$54.0
million) assisted the northern states to expand primary teacher training facilities, and increase
secondary school enrollments.
2.37   The implementation results of these three projects were disappointing. The projects suffered
from: (a) the weak management and implementation capabilities of state governments; (b) a low
quality and over-burdened construction industry; (c) poor communication; (d) uncertainties in the
supply of materials, equipment and furniture; (e) complex and inefficient Federal-State financial
arrangements; and (f) poor project design, in that too many project institutions (over 100, for
example, in the first project) scattered over a vast area were involved in a complex infrastructure
project.
2.38   While efforts to assist in the development of human resources were maintained through
project related training in non-education projects, the Bank was not actively involved in the education
sector again until the late 1980s. Studies on key sectoral issues which should help in gaining a better
understanding of the needs, policy issues and investment priorities of the sector, were undertaken by
the Bank starting in 1986. They helped prepare the groundwork for follow-up, broader-based, policy-
oriented operations. A study on the cost and financing of universities was completed in 1987;
another study on primary education issues was undertaken in 1988 and another on secondary
education was begun in 1989. The Technical Education Project (Loan 2926 in FY88, for US$23.3
million), the first lending operation in Nigeria after a decade of inactivity, supported a comprehensive
review of technical/vocational education. Subsequently, a University Development Project (Cr 2139-
UNI) has come into effect and a Primary Education Project (Cr 2191-UNI) became effective on
March 13, 1992. A Secondary Education Project is under preparation; while a study of out-of-school



- 13 -
children and youths has recently been initiated. Cumulatively, the thrust of the Bank's sector work
and policy dialogue with the Government is to assist in addressing key sectoral issues of promoting
internal efficiency, reinforcing educational quality, improving financial management to achieve greater
access to schooling, and relating training to labor market requirements. To date no Bank projects in
Nigeria have addressed issues in preschool education. The proposed project aims at supporting
efforts to address such issues, through the television medium.
m. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Origin
3.1   The proposed Development Communication Pilot Project responds to a request from the NTA
for IDA assistance in fulfilling its developmental mandate by targeting young children and their
mothers in the interests of better child welfare and development. The project as presented here is
based upon several missions in Nigeria from 1990 to 1992 that included investigatory work and
discussions between FMIC, NTA and the IDA.
B.    Project Rationale. Objectives and Strategies
3.2    Rationale for undertaking this project. This is an innovative project that pilots the use of a
mass medium for instructional and training purposes. It responds to a need for instructional material
production and dissemination to groups of preschoolers and women, provision for whom is outside
the usual formal public sector operations in Nigeria. There is a need to give preschoolers a headstart
for primary education, equip caregivers with knowledge and skills, and inform parents of early
childhood needs and how they can be addressed. In doing this, the proposed pilot project would set
up and test a model for the production, dissemination and evaluation of educational materials. It
builds on the educational and developmental broadcasting mandate of the NTA. By setting up a
dedicated facility it lays the foundation for an educational television service which could have a
profound effect in advancing educational and social development in Nigeria.
3.3   Project objectives. The main objective of the proposed five-year project is to pilot a method
to support early childhood development. To do this the project would: (a) provide, disseminate and
reinforce instructional materials for preschool aged children; (b) promote early childhood
development; (c) sensitize parents to early childhood needs and care; (d) enhance caregivers'
knowledge and competencies; (e) create the institutional and infrastructural framework for quality
educational and developmental television programming; and (f) introduce replicable modalities of
educational and social program development, monitoring and evaluation.
3.4   Project strategjie. In pursuance of these objectives the project would:
(a)    provide instructional materials through the development, production and purchase of
video-taped programs and printed support materials in English and the major local
languages to develop basic communication and social skills among preschoolers, to
sensitize parents to the needs of early childhood and provide them with social
messages;
(b)    disseminate instructional materials through the distribution of videos and support
materials, through network transmission, video-on-wheels and local viewing centers



- 14 -
for on site viewing, and sales through licensed retailers;
(c)    reinforce instruction through caregiver training using locally-produced videos and
printed materials that model effective instructional methods, distributing these
materials, and providing trained facilitators to accompany video transmission;
(d)    create an institutional framework by establishing a steering group and working
committee, setting up a dedicated production facility with staff, a studio, production
equipment, spare parts and maintenance training, training production personnel,
transferring skills through a production based on the Sesame Street model, and
promoting competition between local producers; and
(e)    establish a replicable model of educational television management, production,
dissemination and reinforcement with formative, summative and impact evaluation and
research into program objectives and content, additional ways of enhaacing the use of
television for education, television transmission and reception problems and solutions
and the coordinated use of the media for development.
C.    Detailed Project Description
3.5    The project targets preschool children aged three to six years, four million of whom (36
percent) already have access to television. For those that do not, the project will target children in
centers in 15 Local Government Authorities (LGA) in ten states (Annex 3.1). It covers villages, rural
and urban market-based community care centers, high density urban areas, private preschools, and
homes, targeting children and their caregivers and parents. It reinforces the work of these centers
through the use of videos and printed support materials aimed at developing basic communication and
social skills in children, better knowledge and teaching skills among the caregivers and improved
early childcare among parents. The project provides facilitators to consolidate instruction and monitor
its impact. A special television production unit will be established at NTA to develop the videos and
printed materials. Instructional materials will be distributed to homes through NTA network
transmissions and to more remote areas through video-on-wheels and local viewing centers. They
may be bought by private preschools. The project pilots a production, distribution and evaluation
model for educational materials that involves the simultaneous use of electronic and print media and
which, if successful, may provide an exemplar for other countries.
1.    Instructional Materials Provision
3.6    Over a five-year period the project would provide a total of 130 hours of programming. This
would consist of 20 to 25 minutes of a preschool program produced by NTA, 20 minutes of bought in
or locally purchased children's programs and 10 to 20 minutes of social messaging purchased locally
or developed by various agencies - for example the National Conservation Foundation, the Federal
Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Commission for Women.
3.7    Local production. Using a production prototype descAibed in paragraph 3.27 below, the
newly established Educational Television Unit (ETU) of NTA will produce 130 episodes for preschool
children aged three to six years. Of these, 26 will be produced in the second project year and 52 in
each of the third and fourth. The specific objectives of these programs will be to:



- 15 -
(a)   improve young children's communication skills through the development of language
expression and comprehension;
(b)    develop children's interest and their ability to observe, discriminate and build up
information about their immediate environment;
(c)    enhance the possibilities for exploration and manipulation and set up the basic
conditions for learning and problem solving;
(d)    cultivate the prerequisites that form the basis of reading, writing and number skills
with an emphasis upon the development of visual perception, auditory discrimination
and psychomotor activities;
(e)    facilitate cooperative attitudes, solidarity, understanding and sharing between children
and adults; and
(f)    create and reward the acquisition of basic good habits of health and hygiene.
To ensure cultural relevance videos will be produced in English and the three major languages with
the "live" clips being set in appropriate locations. Furthermore, the curriculum objectives, program
content and scripts will be developed by well experienced local educators and the first two videos in
the series will be piloted in each linguistic region.
3.8    Buving-in from overseas. Some of the remaining 130 twenty to twenty-five minute
educational segments will be purchased from international sources. Choices will be rnade from
producers' catalogues. Suitable programs will be cartoons and other productions that are judged
culturally appropriate. These will be dubbed into English and the three major local languages.
3.9    Local purchase. In addition to buying from overseas, preschool and social programs will be
commissioned from local producers including NETC. Objectives and story lines will be supplied and
the producer will be required to present two videos for evaluation. These will be subjected to pre-
qualification procedures during which they will be assessed for quality and audience reaction. The
producer's capacity will also be judged. A pre-qualification threshold will be set and products
reaching or exceeding this threshold will be equally pre-qualified. Producers who have been pre-
qualified will be required to submit price bids for the production of the required program series and
will be assessed on price alone. Criteria for technical evaluation of videos are attached to Annex 4.5.
These were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
3.10   Development of social messages. A small amount of funding will be provided for the
development and production of social messages. Typically, these messages are developed and taped
by NGOs, individuals and government departments that cannot afford to buy air time. They will
include health, nutrition, AIDS prevention, environmental sanitation, early child care, population,
agricultural and other economic activities. If evaluation studies show these programs have made
sufficient impact, FMIC would have an argument for better budgetary allocations for developmental
media.
3.11   Printed support materials. The importance of augmenting video instruction with printed
support materials for children and teachers is emphasized in evaluations of educational television
projects. Materials will be designed during program pre-production, produced from video stills and,



- 16 -
with textual additions and work sheets, be photocopied for distribution with the videos to all
participating centers.
2.     Instructional Materials Dissemination
3.12   To reach a broad cross-section of the preschool age group and cater to disadvantaged areas,
videos will be distributed through the network, local viewing centers, and video-on-wheels. They
will be shown in those low-density private preschools that have purchased the videos and supporting
printed matter.
3.13   A schedule for distribution by video on wheels and local viewing centers is at Annex 3.2.
Initially, a child will see one video per week. This will increase to three times per week by the end
of the project in the case of local viewing centers.
3.14   Network transmission. Due to a lack of foreign exchange and the poor quality of locally-
produced instructional programs, NTA discontinued the five hours weekly set aside for instructional
broadcasting. During the project this time will be incrementally reinstated beginning with one hour a
week in project year three and gradually increasing this to three hours by project year five. To
accommodate the children's broadcasts NTA stations will begin network transmission at 3.00 p.m. -
an hour earlier than at present. At negotiations it was agreed that NTA will allocate, by December
31, 1995, a weekly one-hour of network time to the transmission of educational materials, and
increase this transmission to three hours every week by project completion.
3.15   Local viewine centers.  To cater for low income groups at least ten local viewing centers will
be set up in locations where the size of the preschool population warrants it in, for example, local
markets or high density urban areas. They will be overseen by a caretaker responsible for security
and for airing the videos and visited by a facilitator who will reinforce instruction, assist the
caregivers to improve their skills and augment the social messages for parents.
3.16   Video-on-wheels. Also catering for low income groups five video-on-wheels units will travel
to rural preschools covering five to ten centers each week. The unit will consist of a four-wheel drive
vehicle equipped with a video player, a large screen monitor, a voltage regulator, generator and
transit cases for the equipment. A driver and facilitator will be attached to each unit, the former
having responsibility for playing the videos and simple maintenance, while the latter reinforces the
instruction with children, caregivers and parents, and monitors attendance, interest, retention and
learning gains.
3.17   Private preschool viewing. To allow for flexibility of viewing, videos will be made available
to private preschools through purchase from licensed retailers. Viewing equipment may also be
provided where a school can serve as a local viewing center catering to several preschool groups.
Preschool proprietors and teachers will be expected to undertake their own monitoring according to
common guidelines.
3.     Reinforcement of Instruction
3.18   Training materials. As part of the team-building exercise for NTA production staff a series of
four to six training videos will be made for preschool organizers, proprietors, facilitators and trainers.
These will include the following:



- 17 -
(a)    Identification of children's needs and the most important aspects of their integrated
development to be promoted such as language and communication skills, psychomotor
activities, socio-emotional issues and health and nutrition.
(b)    Organization of available space, children's activities and how to plan a rich
environment with local resources and community cooperation.
(c)    Creation of a healthy learning environment for children stimulating thinking, play,
expression, asking and answering questions - using non-directive techniques to
enhance cognitive and social skills.
(d)    Good health, nutrition and affection as a basis for successful development.
(e)    How to observe children's and adults' behavior and to monitor children's activities.
(f)    What children learn from their interactions with parents, aduits and other children.
3.19   Training courses. Fo, r categories of personnel will need training courses. These include: (i)
those coordinating preschools (that is, NGOs, private proprietors, LGAs); (ii) program facilitators;
(iii) caregivers, and (iv) drivers and caretakers. An initial training program will be provided.
Caregivers will receive continuous training throughout the project through their interaction with the
facilitators. Ad hoc training groups will be conducted at a central point when the Steering Group
considers it necessary.
3.20   On-the job training. As part of their school visits, facilitators will talk with caregivers about
what they have learnt during the video session, will assist them with follow-up activities and will
watch them interacting with children and parents. From these discussions and observations the
facilitators will advise caregivers on better practices.
3.21   Checking for success. In addition to the monitoring and evaluation component described in
paragraphs 3.29 to 3.32 the Steering Group and Advisory Committee will arrange visits to the target
centers at the beginning of the project and at intervals during project implementation to check
progress.
4.     Creation of an Institutional Framework
3.22   An educational television unit. In order to create an institutional and infrastructural
framework for quality educational and developmental television programming in Nigeria, a dedicated
purpose-built and equipped educational television facility or Educational Television Unit (ETU) is
required. Located in Lagos the unit would have access to the network distribution facilities,
personnel and technical back-up from NTA Headquarters on Victoria Island and be close to the
facilities of the independent video sector. The main production site at Victoria Island, Lagos, is
severely overcrowded and much of the equipment obsolete and in an advanced stage of technical
decline. Also for the ETU to develop its own identity as a center for educational television
production, without the inevitable alternative production distractions which would exist at Victoria
Island, there is a strong argument for a location away from Headquarters but close enough to allow
communication and access.



- 18 -
3.23   The studio and equipment. NTA have a large site at Ikeja for their local Channel 7 service to
Lagos. This is essentially local news service with minimal technical facilities on site. Sufficient
space is available. At appraisal the need for a dedicated facility was agreed and it was proposed that
the ETU studio, a two-storey self-contained unit of 4,200 sq.ft., could be housed on this site provided
that a structural survey proved satisfactory. During negotiations the importance of the dedicated
production facility was reinforced. Possible locations for the ETU were discussed and it was
concluded that in the interests of speedy and successful implementation of this pilot project the Ikeja
site was the most convenient. It was agree that NTA will use the ETU site, all the time throughout
the useful life of the facilities, solely for the production of project related materials. A condition for
credit effectiveness will be the submission, by NTA, of a surveyor's report satisfactory to the
Association, on the proposed site for the studio, suitable architectural plans and buildings
specifications for the studio, including confirmation that the land belongs to NTA. The proposed unit
(Annex 3.3) will be a self-contained production facility with all services housed in the one building.
The unit will provide for a potential output of one hour of television per week with three productions
being generated simultaneously and with scope to expand this production rate in the future. Over the
five years of the project 130 hours of programming should be possible.
3.24   Staffin2. The unit will be staffed by existing NTA production personnel who are already
trained but whose skills may require upgrading. They will be assisted by technical assistants who will
gradually transfer their skills and be phased out during the project. Details of staff requirements and
technical assistance are in Annex 3.4.
3.25   Staff upgrading. Several categories of staff will receive training under the project. Thirteen
NTA production staff will receive a total of 31 months overseas training. Key production team
members will participate in two overseas study tour while FMIC staff take part in one tour. Other
production staff will be trained on the job. A condition for credit effectiveness agreed at negotiations
is the submission to the Association by NTA of the details of overseas training courses required under
the project. A further condition for effectiveness is that NTA will furnish to the Association detailed
costs, objectives and plans for the study tour itineraries included in the project.
5.     Establishment of a Model
3.26   Management. In order to effectively organize and monitor program activities, a management
structure, consisting of a Steering Group and a Working Committee, will be established within the
project. For a detailed description of responsibilities, see the section on project coordination and
management (paragraph 4.2 and Annex_3.). The Steering Group will be responsible for the
organization of the ETU. It should comprise (i) a representative from the FMIC, (ii) project
coordinator; (iii) unit manager; (iv) NTA Director of Programs; (v) educational consultant; (vi)
monitoring and evaluation consultant; and (vii) representative of the preschool groups. The Working
Committee will respond to the Steering Group, and will include the following members: (i) project
coordinator; (ii) unit manager; (iii) scriptwriters; (iv) teaching specialists; (v) directors; (vi)
representatives of all preschool groups (including UNICEF, OMEP, private preschools); (vii)
representative of facilitators; and (viii) monitoring and evaluation consultant. During negotiations it
was aree that NTA will establish a Steering Group and a Working Committee comprising members
with qualifications acceptable to the Association.
3.27   Production prototype. Children's television series, such as Sesame Street, employ a rigorous
methodology for program production that includes a lengthy pre-production period. Project pre-
production activities will generally follow the model shown in Annex 3.6 which comprises four phases:



- 19 -
(a)    Program and production Dlanning estimated to require four months covers creating job
descriptions for production staff, choosing categories of programs and program
schedules for each, reviewing audience research and identifying additional research
needs, meeting with officials and organizations that might be involved in the project,
holding a training workshop on the first programs, designing a publicity campaign
and, finally, planning the first curriculum development seminar. These seminars are
central to the project as they bring together educators, content specialists, linguists,
ministry officials, broadcasters and producers from the different regions for the
purpose of articulating curriculum objectives. In the project model the Advisory
Committee is the embryo of the curriculum development group.
(b)    Research and production development lasting for about six months sees the
development of the television programs and intensive training and orientation
workshops for production staff.
(c)    Preparation of pilots and test materials lasts about six months and focusses all the
components up to the point of shooting the first programs. The phase includes
convening the second curriculum workshop.
(d)    The final phase covers studio and post production, field testing and, finally,
broadcasting.
3.28   Distribution and reinforcement. As stated in paragraph 3.12 above, videos and printed
materials will be distributed using video on wheels and local viewing centers in order to reach
disadvantaged groups. Accompanying the distribution process will be a scheme to train preschool
education personnel, to reinforce instruction and to enhance the understanding and impact of social
messages targeted at caregivers - including parents. Videos and printed materials for private
preschools will be sold through video retailers who will be given licenses for this purpose.
3.29   Monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring, evaluation and research have critical roles to play at
each production phase, during training, distribution and reinforcement and on project completion.
The information gleaned is required by a broadly dispersed audience for a variety of purposes among
which are to: (a) improve the performance of the present project, (b) justify funding this project in
preference to any other, and (c) learn from this project lessons for other, future projects.
3.30   Formative, summative and impact evaluation will be employed in two phases - the pre-test
and the on-going phase. The pre-test lasts through the production and testing of the first two program
episodes. The on-going phase should incorporate lessons learned from the pre-test phase and will
continue throughout the duration of the project. After two episodes have been produced but before
the other 24 are locked into place, assuming that the initial production will be 26 episodes. The
purpose is to fine tune both the programs and the survey and other evaluation instruments as
necessary.
3.31   The ongoing phase will consist of the following activities:
(a)    during the first year of full scale production - a survey of video on wheels and local
viewing center sites to ascertain appeal, involvement and recall of program materials
to children and parents; facilitators hold focus groups with children and with parents
on reactions to specific program elements and to get answers to pre-designed questions



- 20 -
probing for information about long-term recall of program elements; project
evaluation specialist visits a systematic cross section of viewing sites, observes
viewing conditions, talks with children, parents, teachers, administrators, and writes a
report that follows a format designed in conjunction with the project designers, and
compilation and analysis of survey data, and qualitative assessments;
(b)    at the end of the first full year of production - a mid-project evaluation meeting among
project designers, implementers, evaluators, outside experts, and adult representatives
of the targeted audiences to assess the successes and problems with the program to
date and make mid-course corrections; and
(c)    at the end of years three through five - compilation of survey data, qualitative
assessments, and summative analysis.
3.32    The monitoring and evaluation consultant will have primary responsibility for the sub-
component assisted by the facilitators who will monitor the project on a routine basis. Regular
evaluations by external consultants will ensure international credibility. Evaluation methods to be
employed throughout the project include audience reactions, pre-and post tests, focus groups,
observations, small-scale and large-scale surveys. Detailed strategies are contained in Annex 3.7.
3.33   Researc  Three research studies are envisaged as part of the project, in addition to the
research required into the formative, summative and impact evaluation processes necessary in the
formulation of effective preschool programs. The terms of reference (Annex 3.8) for these studies
were discussed at negotiations. At negotiations it was agreed that NTA will carry out, no later than
December 31, 1995, the research studies and promptly furnish the findings to the Association for
review and comment.
3.34   A maior study of the coordinated use and potential impact of the media to accelerate growth
and development in Nigeria will examine the use of the print and electronic media in Nigeria's
social, agricultural, industrial and economic development. Among other issues it will address media
reach and use; the content, format and impact of messages; mechanisms for reinforcing the messages;
and actual and potential partners in development communication. It will delineate and cost a program
to coordinate the media for development.
3.35   Research into NTA transmission problems and their solution will be initiated early in project
implementation. It will investigate current coverage and issues in clarity of transmission and
reception and propose ways of rectifying the many problems. It will focus on new technologies and
how they could improve coverage and signal strength. This would include possible uses of satellite
delivery systems to cover the whole country. The results will be used to improve network
transmission.
3.36   Future developments of the dedicated production unit will form the basis of the third research
study. The production unit is being created to serve a particular market, namely preschool children,
their caregivers and parents. On project completion, this unit could be expanded and continue as an
educational television service. The research study will investigate the feasibility of this.



-21 -
C.     Project Costs and Financing
3.37   project costs. The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies and duties
and taxes, is estimated at US$10.23 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
US$5.81 million (58.5 percent). The cost estimates are based on July 1992 prices. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 10 percent for both local and foreign goods and services. Price
contingencies, calculated on the basis of annual local and international inflation rates projected at the
time of appraisal, amounted to US$1.15 million equivalent, or 14.4 percent of the total project costs.
A 12 month lag is assumed between appraisal and project effectiveness. Detailed project costs by
component and cost category, as well as the various assumptions used in estimating these costs, are
shown in Annex 3.9. A summary is given below.
Estimated Costs:''
Local         Fomeifn      Total
---- (USS million)-
1.      Produce and Acquire
Instructional Materials                                      1.20          0.92          2.12
2.      Disribute Instructional Materials                            0.09           0.32         0.41
3.      Provide Reinformement of the Materials0 .04                                 0.01         0.05
4.      Institutional Capacity Building                              1.78           3.16         4.93
.       Initiate and Teat a Model                                    0.20           0.28         0.48
Total Bane Cota                                              3.31          4.68          7.99
Physical Contingencies                                       0.33          0.47          0.80
Pnce Contingeacie                                           0.49           0.66          1.15
Duties and taxee                                            0.29           0.00          0.29
Total Project Costs                                    4.42           5.81        10.23
1 Totals fay not add due to munding.
3.38    Financing plan. Details of the financing plan are provided in Annex 3.9. A summary is
shown below. An IDA credit of SDR 5.9 million (US$8.03 million) would finance about 78.5
percent of the total project cost net of duties and taxes. The credit would cover 94.0 percent of
foreign exchange costs and 62.3 percent of local costs net of duties and taxes. Parallel financing of
US$0.5 million equivalent is being sought. NTA contribution would amount to US$1.7 million
equivalent, including duties and taxes estimated at about US$0.29 million equivalent.



- 22 -
Proiect Financinz PlanI
(USS million)
Local          Foreign        Total
IDA                                2.57            5.46           8.03
NTA                                 1.71           0.00            1.71
UNICEF, BVL                        0.14            0.35           0.49
Total                    4.42            5.81          10.23
'I Totals fay not add due to rounding.
3.39    This is a pilot experimental project that fulfills a public sector responsibility, i.e. producing
and disseminating social and instructional messages to enhance development. NTA, a partially
commercialized entity, is not merely taking on this role but is also contributing the site for the studio
and financing salaries, duties and taxes, as well as the local costs of consultants required for the
monitoring and evaluation component. At negotiations, it was agreed that NTA will make funds
available to pay staff salaries, cover administrative costs and other recurrent expenditures. In
recognition of this, it was Urjg!d that the Government will make the proceeds of the credit available
to NTA, as a grant, under a participation agreement to be entered into between the Government and
NTA, under terms and conditions to be approved by the Association.
3.40    The Government will make the IDA credit available to NTA on a grant basis and delegate
responsibility for the Special Account to NTA. A condition for effectiveness will be the execution of
the Participation Agreement between the Government and NTA. The credit would finance:
(a)  studio construction and fitting,
(b)  purchase, installation and maintenance of production equipment,
(c)  video purchase,
(d)  video production,
(e)  production of video and printed support materials,
(f)  overseas training,
(g)  provision and operation of three local viewing centers and three video-on-wheels units,
(ii)  provision of technical assistance; that is, one very experienced project coordinator for
up to 18 months, two overseas counterpart production staff for six months each, a
procurement consultant, and a local evaluation consultant,
(i)  formative, summative and impact evaluation, and
(j) research into the coordinated use of the media, transmission problems and their
solution, and into the future development of the project production unit.
3.41    Grant funding is being sought for:
(a)  training preschool coordinating agencies, facilitators and caregivers,
(b) providing and operating seven local viewing centers and two video-on-wheels units, and
(c)  providing equipment for private and NGO proprietors.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1    The project is in an advanced stage of preparation. The NTA component has been worked
out in detail. Cooperating agencies and early childcare centers in 15 LGAs in ten states have been
tentatively identified. Curriculum content for each target group has been outlined as has the content
of the training videos and programs.
B.    Project Coordination and Management
4.2   Institutional arrangements for project implementation involve the coordination of a number of
different groups. These include the FMIC, NTA, preschools, UNICEF, NERDC, OMEP, JMA, and
PWA. The responsibilities for coordination and management are defined below.
(a) The Federal Ministry of Information will (i) have general oversight of the project, (ii)
be a major participant in the Steering Group, and (iii) ensure the project is regularly
monitored and that NTA carries out the research studies by December 31, 1995.
(b)  The Nigerian Television Authority will convene the Steering Group and Working
Committee and will be responsible for the overall coordination of all project institutions
in production, distribution, reinforcement and monitoring and evaluation through
specified members of the two management committees.
(c)  The Steering Group will be responsible for the organization of the ETU. The Group
represents the major control on the activities of the ETU and is responsible for the
quality of output, the efficient running of the Unit and financial control. It will be
responsible, through the Director of Programs, and the Director General of NTA to the
FMIC. A key member of the Group is the local educational expert. This post is
crucial to the success of the project in that the educational input will be monitored and
checked by the expert. The expert will work closely with the scriptwriter and program
directors to produce the educational input. All overseas material will be assessed for its
educational value by the educational expert and the project coordinator. Another key
role is that of the monitoring and evaluation consultant who will be responsible for
overseeing the coordination of production with distribution, reiforcement,  nxitorux%
and evaluation. This post will liaise between NTA and NERDC, UNICEF, the
preschool proprietors and coordinating groups.
(d)  The Working Committee will be established to respond to the Steering Group. It is
envisaged that evaluation and feedback from the recipients of the services will largely
come through this group, and major issues of educational validity will be the group's
concern.
C.    Implementation of the Project Components
4.3    Since the FMIC, as NTA's supervising ministry, has responsibility for monitoring NTA's
performance, it will be responsible for overseeing the project and for periodic evaluations. NTA will
implement most project components. This will include (i) the procurement of civil works, goods and
services; (ii) the development, production and acquisition of videos and printed support materials; (iii)



- 24 -
the network distribution of the materials and distribution through three video-on-wheels units and
three local viewing centers; (iv) the organization and oversight of monitoring and evaluation; (v)
complying with IDA reporting requirements; and (vi) staffing the ETU, three video-on-wheels and
three local viewing centers under their purview. Annual and mid-term project targets (Annex 4.1)
and an implementation schedule (Annex 4.2) were discussed between the NTA and the Association
during negotiations.
4.4    Preschool coordinating groups such as OMEP and NPWA, supported by donor financing,
will be responsible for training facilitators, distributing, and reinforcing materials through the
remaining two video-on-wheels units and seven local viewing centers. They will also be responsible
for monitoring activities in these locations.
4.5    Regular IDA supervision missions would visit Nigeria three times a year to advise on project
implementation issues. A supervision plan (Annex 4.3) was discussed between NTA and IDA at the
time of negotiations. No later than three years after the date of credit effectiveness the FMIC, NTA
and the Association will carry out a mid-term review of project progress. This will focus on the
impact of the first instructional materials and social messages to be distributed. It will also assess the
measures taken to ensure sustainability such as budgetary provision for equipment depreciation,
maintenance and spare parts, and the introduction of airtime for instructional programs. The results
of the first evaluation exercise will be made available. These, together with the midterm review
should make it possible to modify the project as necessary. At negotiations it was agre  that NTA,
in collaboration with FMIC, will: (i) no later than 3 years after the date of Credit Effectiveness, carry
out jointly with the Association a mid-term review of the project that will examine the technical
assistance phasing out, local staff involvement in production and distribution, the 26 episodes of
preschool videos produced, the one hour per week of instructional network programming, the
distribution of the first batch of videos, and the results of the first formative evaluation; and (ii) to
that end, prepare and furnish to the Association three months prior to the review all relevant
documents showing progress attained in carrying out the objectives of the project.
D.    Environmental Impact
4.6    The project should have a positive environmental impact since care of the immediate
environment will be included in both the children's programs and in parental messages. Facilitators
will discuss the precepts learned and monitor changes in attitude and behavior as a result.
E.     Impact on Women
4.7    Women are a major target of this project since many of the target preschools are situated at
women's centers, organized by women's groups and attended or supervised by women. It is
anticipated that social and economic benefits will accrue to them. Social, because the instructional
materials will contain social messages. Economic, because in watching the children's programs
women could gain some of the communication skills taught the children and such skills are useful for
economic activities. Reinforcement of these messages by facilitators during focus group discussions
will make it more likely that women apply what is learnt. Furthermore, early childcare centers free
mothers to participate in economic activities.



- 25 -
F.     Effect on Poverty Reduction
4.8    Mothers claim that the education they receive at community centers and preschools makes
them more economically productive. The skills received should contribute to poverty reduction in the
family and immediate community. Particular emphasis will be placed on direct economic activities -
agriculture and small businesses - in the "social" messaging.
G.     Sustainability and Expansion
4.9    Since this is an experimental project it is important not to introduce too many variables into
project design as such an approach would increase risks and minimize the chances of success.
Implementation can then concentrate on testing the project model. Of course, this raises the question
of sustainability and expansion. Provision of adequate funding through an IDA credit allows time for
NTA's commercialization plan to succeed. It is based upon the performance agreement signed by
NTA at the beginning of July, 1992. Projected income under this agreement indicates that by 1997
NTA's financial sustainability should be assured. A financial flow statement for the ETU is shown at
Annex 4.4. A further action aimed at project sustainability is the requirement that annual budgetary
provisions are made by NTA to cover depreciation of capital stock provided under the project and for
maintenance and spares. At negotiations it was agreed that NTA will introduce, no later than the
fourth year of the project, an annual budget line of ten percent (10%) of equipment costs for
depreciation; and that NTA will introduce, no later than the fifth year of the project, an annual budget
line of ten percent (10%) of equipment costs for maintenance and spares. Technical sustainability is
assured through the provision of infrastructure and equipment, production of 130 hours of
programming, reinstatement of one hour of instructional programming from 15.00 to 16.00 hours
daily, and the availability of staff trained under the project. The research studies will provide
information on the developmental use of the media, how to improve network transmission and how
the ETU can be developed into a full educational television service. Upon the proven success of this
pilot project and NTA's commercialization NTA could proceed with a more extensive educational
television service.
H{.    Specialist Serv-ice
4.10   Specialized technical personnel as below will be required:
(a) a project coordinator who will be director of the project with overall management
responsibility and authority within the guidelines agreed with NTA. Particular
responsibilities will include:
(i)    ensuring educational, creative and technical standards,
(ii)    maintaining the production schedule,
(iii)    acquisition of overseas material,
(iv)    coordination with outside agencies including the World Bank, providers of
preschool education (for example, UNICEF, OMEP, Private Child Care and
preschools), and
(v)    responding as Director to Senior Management of NTA;
To undertake this role the Coordinator will need substantial experience of management
within television and education. It is envisaged that the individual will be recruited
from overseas in the first instance. He/she would be appointed on a fixed term contract



- 26 -
to oversee studio equipment installation, the development of the pilot programs and
initial stages of the production of the educational programs. A period of 18 months is
sufficient to undertake the work and to identify and train a replacement.
(b)  A director experienced in educational programs will be employed for a period of six
months to build the team and develop, under the Project Coordinator, the approach to
ETV work.
(c)  a studio production specialist would be employed to work alongside the Technical
Crew, including lighting, sound, vision mixing, editing and camera operators. This
would require six months intensive training.
(d) a procurement consultant will be employed to administer procurement in the first two
years of the project during which time all major procurement activities are estimated to
be completed. The candidate should be identified and appointed prior to project
effectiveness.
(e)  a monitoring and evaluation consultant with substantial experience in monitoring
television productions and their impact will be employed for project duration.
At negotiations discussions were held between NTA and IDA on the terms of reference for all
technical assistance. Conditions for credit effectiveness are the hiring, by NTA, of a procurement
consultant, and the furnishing, by NTA, to the Association of a short list of candidates for the
positions of project coordinator, production director, studio production specialist, and monitoring and
evaluation specialist.



- 27 -
I.       Procurement
4.11    The table below summarizes the project elements with their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS'
(USS million)
Catezory                                                           ICB     LCB   Other        NBF       Total
(1) Civil
1. 1 Infrastructure                                               1.784                                  1.784
(2) Goods
2.1 Equipment/Machinery
TV production Equipment                                  1.395                                  1.395
Video distribution and reception                                          0.031      0.091      0.122
Reprographic                                                              0.026                 0.026
Furniture                                                         0.189  0.078                  0.267
Vehicles                                                          0.288              0.279      0.566
Subtotal                                       1.395    0.477  0.135       0.370      2.377
2.2 Materials
Production of pre-school programs                                         0.649                 0.649
Production of social messages                                             0.417                 0.417
Production of printed mnaterial                                           1.460                 1.460
Production of training prograwm                                           0.016                 0.016
Subtotal                                                        2.542      0.000      2.542
2.3 Commodities
Acquisition of video programs                                     0.033  0.138                  0.171
Subtotal, Goods                                1.395    0,510  2.815       0.370      5.090
(3) Consultancies
3.1 Research/Monitoring & Evaluation
Research                                                                  0.181                 0.181
Monitoring and evaluation                                                 0.025      0.0S5      0.050
3.2 Technical assistance                                                          0.618                  0.618
3.3 Training                                                                      0.585       0.045      0.629
Subtotal                                                        1.409      0.070      1.479
(4) Miscellaneots
4.1 Incremental administrative and operational cost                               0.117       0.078     0.195
4.2 Incremental saff salaries                                                                 1.389      1.389
4.3 Duties and taxes                                                                         0.293      0.293
Subtotal                                                        0.117      1.760      1.877
Total                                                    3.180    0.510  4.341       2.200     10.230
Of which IDA financed                          (3. 180)  (0 510) (4.341)             (8.030)
Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 28 -
Procurement details for each category are:
(a)    Civil works. For the construction of one television production studio, estimated to
cost US$1.784 million equivalent, procurement will be by ICB. Domestic preference
will be granted in accordance with paragraph 2.55 in the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992).
(b)    QGo    will be procured using the following procedures:
(i)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for television production equipment
estimated to cost US$1.40 million equivalent and that is available only outside
Nigeria.
(ii)    Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) for studio furniture, vehicles and for pre-
produced videos that aggregate to an estimated cost of no more than US$0.51
million equivalent in accordance with current government practices which are
acceptable to the IDA. These would include advertising, public bid opening,
a clear explanation of the evaluation criteria incorporated in the bidding
documents, and contract award to the lowest evaluated bidder. These goods
are manufactured locally and each package will cost less than US$100,000
equivalent and will be too small to attract international bidding. Foreign
bidders interested in participating in LCB should not be precluded.
(iii)   Video distribution and reception equipment, reprographic equipment, and
sundry items for the production of videos, printed materials and training
programs, and the acquisition of video programs, estimated to aggregate to a
total of no more than US$2.92 million equivalent procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to IDA.
(c)    Consultancies fall into the following categories:
(i)    There will be 102 person months of technical assistance that includes 48
months local and 54 overseas TA. This would be selected in accordance with
IDA guidelines for the use of consultants (August 1981).
(ii)    Research, monitoring and evaluation where all contracts are expected to be
small and unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Contracts will be awarded in
accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. The three research
studies will involve 24 person months in all requiring, for each study, two
persons for four weeks each.
(iii)   Overseas training and study tours will be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines for the use of consultants. This would include a total of 31
months overseas training for 13 production staff and 6 weeks of study tours
for a total of 18 staff.



- 29 -
(d)   Miscellaneous incremental recurrent operating costs of US$117,000 for the operation
of the steering group and working committee would be committed under local
procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.12   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more. Contracts in excess of US$200,000 equivalent
would be awarded through ICB and would be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD) Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1992). Packages estimated at or less than
US$200,000 but more than US$50,000 and aggregating to no more than US$510,000 will be subject
to local competitive bidding. Sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 in each contract and
aggregating to a maximum of US$2.92 million equivalent could be purchased on the basis of a
minimum of three quotations in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Prior review by
IDA would be required of all contracts of US$50,000 or more and would therefore cover all ICB
documentation for civil works and production equipment, and some LCB documentation and
consulting contracts. This would include bidding packages, invitations to bid and the proposed award
of contracts. Under the institution building component of the project the NTA, which is responsible
for procurement, would hire procurement technical assistance. A condition of credit effectiveness is
the submission to the Association, by NTA, of draft ICB and LCB procurement documents for civil
works, equipment, vehicles, furniture and videos to be procured under the project. A procurement
timetable as at Annex 4.5 was discussed between NTA and IDA during negotiations.
J.    Disbursements
4.13   Disbursement categories and procedures. The allocation of credit amounts and the
disbursement percentages are summarized on the following page. An estimated quarterly
disbursement profile is given in Annex 4.6. The regional sector profile is eight years. However, it is
estimated that the entire credit could be disbursed in five years based on the following considerations:
the project is to provide a limited range of goods and services mostly in the early project years, there
is only one implementing agency, NTA is strongly committed to the project, training and other
components are simple to implement, and there is a limited civil works component.
4.14   All withdrawal applications will be fully documented except in respect of (1) expenditures
under contracts of less than $20,000, (2) local training, and (3) administrative and operating costs,
which will be done on the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOEs). The documentation
supporting SOEs would be retained at the NTA for review by Bank supervision missions and project
auditors.
4.15   Special Accounts. To expedite project implementation two accounts would be established in a
commercial or merchant bank to be identified by the government. The first is a "Special Account" to
disburse the Association's share of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness of the Credit and on
request from the government, the Association would advance into the Special Account an initial
deposit from the credit of US$500,000 equivalent, denominated in dollars. The Special Account
would be replenished by the Association on receipt of properly documented withdrawal applications
from NTA accompanied by up to date Bank statements and reconciliation of the Special Account. All
payments of less than $50,000 equivalent, in both foreign and local currency, will be made from the
Special Account. The Special Account will be replenished monthly, or whenever one-third of the
account is disbursed, whichever comes first. Government would delegate to NTA responsibility for
managing the Special Account.



- 30 -
4.16     A second account to be known as the "Project Account" would be established by NTA in a
commercial or merchant bank of its choice to pay its share of eligible project expenditures. By
September 30 of each year the NTA would prepare, for review by the Association, anticipated
expenditures for the following project year, which would form the basis for replenishing the Project
Account. During negotiations, the NTA and the Association discussed the details for establishment,
operation and accounting requirements for the SOEs, special and project accounts, in conformity with
Bank guidelines. It was areed that NTA will open and maintain, in a commercial or merchant bank
satisfactory to the Association, a Project Account in Naira into which NTA shall deposit an initial
amount equivalent to seventy thousand dollars (US$70,000) from its own resources and will replenish
the Project Account by depositing the required counterpart contributions provided by NTA, in
accordance with the estimated requirements determined by the Association and the Government. A
condition for credit effectiveness is the opening of the Project Account by NTA with an initial deposit
of US$70,000 equivalent.
4.17     Incremental recurrent costs. Although it is not expected that the project will generate
substantial additional recurrent costs, it is anticipated that a larger share than at present of the NTA's
recurrent budget will be allocated to program production and purchase and that sufficient income will
be generated under the Authority's commercialization program to sustain this level of recurrent
funding after project completion. In addition, and in the interests of sustaining project benefits, the
NTA will be required to incorporate into its annual budget permanent lines for equipment
maintenance, spares and eventual replacement.
K.       Accountine. Auditing and ReDorting
4.18     The NTA would establish and maintain separate financial records for all accounts,
including statement of expenses (SOEs), and the Special and Project accounts. The financial records
should conform to internationally accepted accounting procedures. During negotiations it was argrd
that NTA would: (a) appoint an independent auditor, with experience and qualifications acceptable to
the Association, to annually audit all project accounts, including SOEs; and (b) submit audit reports
of reasonable scope and detail to the Association, to include a separate opinion on SOEs, within six
months of the close of the NTA's fiscal year. NTA will be responsible for keeping a separate
account for the ETU in which will be recorded all income and expenditures under the project
including income from the sale of instructional materials. At negotiations it was agreed that NTA
will define, in detail, the accounting system and managerial structure of the ETU.



- 31 -
ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES FOR IDA CREDIT
(US$ million)
Amount Allocated a/              Percentage of Expenditure to be
Categozy         (USS m)          (SDR m)                fuianced by IDA Credit
1.      Civil Works                   1.61             1.18                  100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditures
2.       Goods                        4.37              3.21                 100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditumes
3.       Consultancies                1.29             0.95                  100% of foreign expenditures
50% of local expenditures
4.       Incremental costs            0.11             0.08                  100% of local expenditures
5.       Unallocated                  0.65             0.48
Total IDA amount                    8.03              5.90
Source: Summary Cost Tables and Detailed Cost Tables in Annex 3.9.
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
ANNUAL DISBURSEMENT PERCENTAGES AND AMOUNTS
IDA Fiscal Year
1994             1995               1996              1997              1998
Amount (USS million) s/
Annual                           2.53            2.59                1.39              1.04              0.48
Cumulative                       2.53             5.12               6.51              7.55              8.03
Percentage:
Annual                          31.6%            32.2%              17.3%             12.9%              5.9%
Cumulative                      31.6%            63.8%              81.1%             94.1%            100.00%
Source: Financing Plan in Annex 3.9
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 32 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Expected Benefits
5.1    Ouantitative impact. The project would produce a substantial collection of instructional
support material including 130 hours of video programming of preschool instruction and social
messaging and six teacher training videos with supplementary printed materials. A large population
of preschool age children (4 million) can be reached through network transmissions. Distribution by
video-on-wheels and through local viewing centers are used to provide access to a sample of children
in areas not covered by these transmissions. When these mechanisms have been proved successful
more television programs for children and social messages will be produced and additional video-on-
wheels and local viewing centers provided.
5.2    Oualitative improvement outcomes. Improved educational delivery and support should result
in increased learning gains and improved motivation of preschoolers who will be given a headstart for
formal education. Caregivers will be better equipped to use more creative and interactive techniques
in teaching and to attend more effectively to the child's health, safety, nutrition and other needs that
contribute to all-round development. Parents and community members will be better informed about
child-rearing and ways to better their living conditions through, for example, better nutrition, smaller
families, improved health, the avoidance of AIDS, and engaging in productive enterprises.
5.3    Pilot model evaluation. Throughout the project a model for using the media in the interests of
education will be tested. By project completion this should be modified and refined to raise its impact
and efficiency, ensure its satisfactory expansion and increase its potential replicability in similar
situations.
5.4   Institutional outcomes. The institution building component of the project will establish the
managerial/institutional infrastructure for production of ETV materials, a mechanism for bringing all
major action groups together (i.e. education personnel, producers, NTA, early childhood care center
proprietors and coordinators), and a prototype production model for videos and printed educational
support materials. It will develop the human resources necessary to implement and expand the use of
the media for education and development.
5.5    Sustainability and development impact potential. On project completion a bank of
instructional materials will be available for continuous use and sufficient trained staff to support this.
If successful the project could provide the foundations of an educational television service which
would reach an increasingly large and dispersed population as transmission and reception improved.
Further,it would provide a model for expansion in Nigeria or for other countries to emulate.
Estimates of NTA's income under commercialization suggest that the Authority would be in a good
position to finance a continuation of the project.
B.    Project risks and actions to minimize them
5.6    Previous experience in Nigerian projects suggests that there are a variety of risks:
(a)   low commitment and lack of ownership of the implementing agency which may be
due to lack of incentives and may affect timely project implementation;
(b)   inadequate institutional capacity;



- 33 -
(c)   irregularities in supplies may cause time over-runs;
(d)   inadequately delineated relationships between implementing bodies can leave
implementation gaps or result in duplication of efforts;
(e)    poor communication may hamper progress;
(f)    cost and time over-runs may result from an unnecessarily complex project design; and
(g)   in operations aimed at qualitative improvement there may be insufficient evidence to
measure project success.
5.7    To minimize these risks the following actions have been taken:
(a)    commitment and ownership have been evident from the initial conceptualization of this
project, and have been promoted through continuous dialogue between IDA missions,
NTA, and preschool proprietors and other agencies. It has continued although there
have been several aborted attempts at preparation. NTA's recently introduced
commercialization program will increase salaries which, together with the professional
impetus of working on a new production and distribution process, should motivate
staff. Because of their strong sense of ownership, NTA is likely to push through the
paper work and overcome the normal processing hurdles.
(b)   the risk of inadequate institutional capacity is being minimized by setting up a clear
organizational structure, employing technical assistance to help oversee the project
including accounting and procurement, appointing a finance officer who will be
trained and be responsible for project accounting;
(c)   the supply situation is being addressed by inputting required equipment and materials
into the project at an early stage, using overseas sources for goods unavailable locally;
the project itself directly addresses the question of lack of instructional materials and
trained caregivers;
(d)    working relationships between all relevant bodies are clearly delineated;
(e)    communications at the project working level and for distributing materials are
addressed within the project;
(f)    project design has been made as simple as possible within the specialized working
context of television production and transmission; and
(g)    proiect achievements will be assessed on a continuous basis through in-built
monitoring and evaluation allowing informed decisions to be made on modifications
necessary to improve instructional materials content and impact during project
implementation and evaluating the project model for later application.



- 34 -
5.8    Experience with the use of television in projects indicates that actions are required to address
the following risks:
(a)   investments have been too high and returns low;
(b)   there has been insufficient local input and relevance;
(c)    management has been problematic with little commitment of and coordination between
implementing groups;
(d)    administrative structure has been nebulous and inefficient;
(e)   too much equipment has been supplied with insufficient maintenance, spares and
depreciation allowed and to be used by inexpert staff;
(f)   teachers and parents have been opposed to the use of television for instruction;
(g)   television instruction has been used to replace rather than supplement traditional
teaching;
(h)   television production techniques have not been amply used because teachers have been
in charge of production hence the comparative advantages of television techniques to
educate have not been fully exploited; and
(i)   there has been virtually no feedback and evaluation, hence success is unmeasurable.
5.9    To minimize these risks the following actions have been taken:
(a)   investments have been kept to an absolute minimum;
(b)   local input has been maximized by using local staff and training them mainly on the
job, devising the program content and format locally with national experts, and by
using the major languages and relevant regional contexts;
(c)    management responsibilities are clearly defined with a structure consisting of a
steering group and a working committee put in place;
(d)    administration will be facilitated using specifically appointed staff with clear job
descriptions and a well-defined working model;
(e)    equipment supplies are being kept to a minimum of simple requirements that are
supplied with spares and a maintenance contract, already qualified staff will receive
further training; to ensure equipment availability budget lines will be introduced for
depreciation, spares and maintenance;
(f)   teachers and other interested parties have been questioned on their commitment to the
use of television for instruction - with positive results;



- 35 -
(g)    instructional materials produced under the project will supplement and enliven existing
instruction;
(h)   the power of television as a visual medium of instruction will be fully exploited since
professional producers will be managing production while professional educators
advise on content and format; and
(i)    proiect progress and success can be measured since monitoring and evaluation are
built into the project using the facilitators and a consultant so that formative,
summative and impact evaluation become routine and a feedback loop provides the
mechanism for ongoing program and project modifications.
5.10   Specific risks associated with this proiect may be:
(a)    new facilities may be taken over by other units of NTA, and
(b)    delays in implementation.
5.11   To minimize these risks the following actions have been taken:
(a)    autonomy of facility control is addressed by providing for a technical assistant as
project coordinator, situating the project production unit some distance from
mainstream NTA activities and including in the legal agreement a covenant on the
dedicated use of the facilities; and
(b)    expeditious implementation is addressed by giving the project coordinator managerial
control over project planning, and implementation.
5.12   Annexes 5.1 and 5.2 tabulate expected benefits, potential risks and measures to obviate them.
Despite all these risk-reducing measures, some risks remain.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government and NTA that the
Government will make the proceeds of the credit available to NTA, as a grant, under a participation
agreement to be entered into between the Government and NTA, under terms and conditions to be
approved by the Association (para. 3.39). This agreement will, inter alia, require the following:
(a)    NTA will allocate, by December 31, 1995, a weekly one-hour of network time to the
transmission of educational materials, and increase said transmission to three hours
every week by project completion (para. 3.14);
(b)    NTA will introduce, no later than the fourth year of the Project, an annual budget line
of ten percent (10%) of equipment costs for depreciation (para. 4.9);
(c)    NTA will introduce, no later than the fifth year of the Project, an annual budget line
of ten percent (10%) of equipment costs for maintenance and spares (para. 4.9);



- 36 -
(d)    NTA will make funds available to pay staff salaries, cover administrative costs and
other recurrent expenditures (para. 3.39);
(e)    NTA will use the ETU site, all the time throughout the useful life of the facilities,
solely for the production of project related materials (para. 3.23);
(f)    NTA will establish a Steering Group and a Working Committee, each in a form and
with functions satisfactory to the Association, the membership of which shall include a
representative of FMIC (para. 3.26);
(g)    NTA will define, in detail, the accounting system and the managerial structure of
ETU (para. 4.18);
(h)    NTA shall open and maintain, in a commercial or merchant bank satisfactory to the
Association, a Project Account in Naira into which NTA shall deposit an initial
amount equivalent to seventy thousand dollars ($70,000) from its own resources and
shall thereafter quarterly replenish the Project Account by depositing the required
counterpart contributions provided by NTA, in accordance with the estimated
requirements as determined by the Association and the Borrower (para. 4.16);
(i)    NTA, in collaboration with FMIC will: (i) no later than three years after the date of
Credit Effectiveness, carry out jointly with the Association a mid-term review of the
project that will examine the technical assistance phasing out, local staff involvement
in production and distribution, the 26 episodes of pre-school videos produced, the one
hour per week of instructional network programming, the distribution of the first
batch of videos, and the results of the first formative evaluation, and (ii) to that end,
prepare and furnish to the Association three months prior to the review all relevant
documents showing progress made in carrying out the objectives of the project (para.
4.5); and
(j)    NTA will carry out, no later than December 31, 1995, the research studies and
promptly furnish the findings to the Association for review and comment (paras. 3.33
to 3.36).
6.2    Conditions for credit effectiveness are:
(a)    the execution of the Participation Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and NTA
(para. 3.40);
(b)    NTA has opened a project account with an initial deposit of $70,000 equivalent (para.
4.16);
(c)    NTA has submitted to the Association the draft International Competitive Bidding and
Local Competitive Bidding documents for civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture
and videos to be procured under the project (para. 4.12);
(d)    NTA has furnished to the Association a surveyor's report satisfactory to the
Association, on the proposed site for the studio, suitable architectural plans and
buildings specifications for the studio, including the confirmation that the land belongs



- 37 -
to NTA (para. 3.23);
(e)    NTA has appointed the Procurement Consultant (para. 4.10);
(f)    NTA has furnished to the Association a short list of candidates for the positions of
Project Coordinator, production director, studio production specialist, and monitoring
and evaluation specialist (para. 4.10);
(g)    NTA has furnished to the Association the details of overseas training courses required
under the Project (para. 3.25); and
(h)    NTA has furnished to the Association detailed costs, objectives and plans for the study
tour itineraries included in the Project (para. 3.25).
6.3    Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for an
IDA credit of SDR 5.9 million (US$8.03 million equivalent) to the Government of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria.
Population and Human Resources
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



- 38 -
ANNEX 1.1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Basic Data Shee
Area (thousand square kin.)                                                  924
GNP per capita (1988, US$)                                                   290
Population (1991 census, provisional figures, millions)                      88.5
Population density (per square kim)                                         95.78
Population growth rate (1990-1995 projected)                                2.8%
Urban population (as % of total)                                           23.4%
Crude birth rate (per 1,000)                                                 43.3
Crude death rate (per 1,000)                                                 14.3
Life expectancy (years)                                                      51.5
Access to safe water
Urban population                                                      50%
Rural population                                                      15%
Nutrition per capita
Daily calorie intake                                                 2,312
Daily protein intake (grams)                                            48
Infant mortality (1992, per 1,000 live births)                               98.5
Population per physician (1992, thousands)                                   6.41
Population per hospital bed (1989, thousands)                                   1
Maternal mortality (1989, per 1,000 live births)                              15
Primary school enrollment (1989, millions)                                   12.8
Female share of enrollment (1992)                                            63%
Primary school enrollment rate (1992)                                        70%
Teachers in primary schools (1989, thousands)                                373
Secondary school enrollment (1986, millions)                                  3.9
Female share of enrollment (1992)                                            16%
Secondary school enrollment rate (1992)                                      19%
Teachers in secondary school (1989, thousands)                               373
Secondary school enrollment (1986, millions)                                  3.9
Female share of enrollment (1986)                                            26%
Secondary school enrollment rate (1986)                                      29%
Teachers in secondary school (1986, thousands)                              109.4
Tertiary education enrollment (1986, thousands)                              246
Female share of enrollment (1986)                                            13%
Adult literacy rate (1985)                                                 42.8%
Source: World Bank Social Indicators of Development 1991-92



- 39 -                           ANNEX 2, 1
PRE-                            JUNIOR    SENIOR
PRIMARY         PRIMARY             SEC.       SEC.      GRAOUATE
c                                                Techn       Polytech. lndust.Training
Schools    1-2-3-4
zUU                                                     3CN CE (Tech.)
Vocational                  1-2-3
Centres
NCE
reaclher    12
Train 1ng3.
Fac. of education
1-2-3-4
Fac. of Techn.
-1-2-i-3-A
Z                                                            Fac. of Arts
.-2-3-A
Fac. of Soc. Sciences
-1-2 -3 -4
_                                     Junior      Senior
Secondary  Secondary  Fac. of Law
z                                                                        4-2-3-1 -2-.----5-  -2-3    1-2-3  -
Fac. of Science
1-2-3-4
Fac. of Medicine
- 2-3-4-5 -6
fac. of Engineering
1-2-3-4
Fac. of Agric.
L;                                           1~~~~~~~~~~I-2--3-A
Prac. schs.
of Agric.  Agric: Institutes
G                                   iI~~~~~~~-2-3  1-I-
<                                                    AGRIC. CENTRES.
School Year/Grade
1  2   3  4  S  6  7  U  Q  10  11  12  13 14 1  16  17 18 19 2'
3          6   7   a  9  10  11 12  13  IA  1S  16  17  18 19  20  21  22  23 24 2'
Age
* exam
I *ntrance exam
Educational structure of Nigeria based on new
National Policy on Education (1977)



- 40 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPM13NT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Messages for Caregivers and Parents
A.    Major Social Problems and Messages
1.    Five areas of concern - population, water, health, social forestry and education - are
included. Each is based on a set of observations and impressions described in some detail.
Recommendations are made on the messages that could form the essence of a communication
program addressing each area. The messages could serve as the basis of, for instance, a soap
opera, a drama or a direct instructional documentary. It is important to stress that decisions
on format should take into consideration regional preferences in Nigeria.
2.    Population. The large size and high growth rate of Nigeria's population are perhaps
the most critical of the country's concerns. What makes population of paramount importance
is that it not only puts a strain on the country's ability to deal with the future (such as, for
instance, with economic growth) but it also impinges on the natural assets of the past, such as
forests and water. With 50 per cent of the current population under 14 years of age, and
given the pronatalist psyche of Nigeria, it is imperative that education programs in this area
be directed at the youth. Observations show that the current policies of the family planning
authorities are in this direction. There are some innovative efforts directed at the young
through music and songs. By striking what would be considered an unusual alliance with the
army, family planning communication is able to employ role models to promote their message
to young males. This is a good entry method to the policy makers' inner circles, since it
coopts army authorities into the national family planning effort. Where there does seem to be
scope for change from the current policies is in the selection of target groups. Thus far the
pressure has been primarily on women to adopt family planning measures. Conversations
with some housewives revealed some resentment on dhis: 'why only us? why women only?"
seemed to be the attitude.
3.    Recommendations for message strategies in this area are tempered by considerable
regional variance; the need to treat urban and rural populations differently; given the strongly
pronatalist attitudes in the country, no major departures from existing predispositions should
be advocated; and targeting should shift from women to young men.
4.    The first recommendation is that the program be initiated in urban centers before it is
introduced into rural areas. The reason is that the effects of overpopulation are seen very
clearly in cities and the target group will be more positively inclined to heed family planning
related messages. This phasing will also show the rural areas that the government is serious
about the effort. It is expected that rural areas will also be inclined to emulate the patterns of
acceptance that are seen in the cities, once they are shown the benefits of a small family.
5.    Second, the rural-urban differences referred to earlier suggest a change in message
strategy depending on who is being addressed: in the urban areas an emphasis on fewer
children is recommended. This is on the assumption that the effects of overcrowding on the
quality of life are demonstrable in the hostile environment; hence, the argument of smaller
families would be seen as relevant. In rural areas, especially in the north, on the other hand,
the number of wives with the average male compounds the problem: it would be unrealistic



- 41 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 7
to expect the same urban approach to hold. It is recommended that child spacing be the
primary idea that should be conveyed. As a first step in the direction of smaller families, this
would be seen as relevant especially if it is related to the agricultural practice of putting a
minimum distance between what is planted. The analogy could be effectively made that just
as the space between the plants is needed to ensure that each one can draw sufficient nutrients
from the soil, so a child need to be nurtured by spacing.
6.     Third, the fear that the threat of AIDS has generated can be exploited to push the use
of condoms among young men, who are to be the prime target for family planning.
7.    Water. While Nigeria is well-endowed with rivers, lakes and groundwater, only 50
per cent of the country's urban and periurban population and 15 percent of the rural
population has access to potable water. More than half a million people in the country die
annually from drinking polluted water. An estimated 650,000 people are afflicted by guinea
worm with the incidence in rural areas being much high than in urban centers. Clearly, water
is an issue which deserves immediate and sustained attention.
8.    Since 1988, the Federal Environment Policy Agency (FEPA), in its National Policy
on Environment, has focused on water resource management. Objectives include the
provision of water "in adequate quantity and acceptable quality" to meet the country's
domestic, agricultural and industrial needs. Tangible results from the strategies that have
been developed are yet to be seen.
9.     Observations in Lagos and Kaduna corroborate the view that water management needs
to be given top priority. In Lagos long lines of people patiently waiting to fill up at
municipal taps were seen. In Kaduna, in a Hausa "saura" (compound) private wells were
seen; yet, when Fulani women living in the same neighborhood were asked where they
obtained water for cooking, they pointed to an open ditch.
10.   This shortage in a country that, relative to the rest of Africa, is well endowed with
water, is partly due to pollution. Industrial effluent, human and animal waste add bacterial
load to the water resources. In Lagos there is severe pollution of the lagoon due to discharge
from neighboring slums and saw mills. Water borne diseases, such as cholera, typhoid,
infectious hepatitis, gastroenteritis, hookworm and guinea worm are common.
11.   Besides problems caused directly to health, water pollution in coastal areas has
depleted the marine resources to the extent that stock fish from Scandinavia are being sold in
markets in Lagos and Kaduna. Since fish contributes 40 per cent of the protein in the
Nigerian diet, its consumption is certainly even higher in the coastal and riverain areas.
Thus, the intake of contaminants in this population should cause particular concern.
12.   Recommendations for messages on this issue are, first, to create awareness about
water borne disease and second, to advocate specific action that individuals and organizations
should undertake. An underlying theme would be the need for protection of water. While
this theme would be common for individuals and organizations, specific messages would be
tailored depending on who the target was.
13.   As before, there is a need to differentiate between urban and rural groups. In the
cities, the practice of boiling water would be advocated, particularly during the rainy season
when flooding of sewage drains occurs and contaminates the ground water. In rural areas,



- 42 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 3 of 7
while the emphasis would continue to be on water-borne diseases, focus should be on keeping
the few existing water sources, "tapakis" as they are called, free from animals particularly in
the dry summer months when there is competition between man and animal for water
increases. Perhaps some tapakis could be set aside exclusively for the livestock. For
industrial organizations, messages would emphasize the importance of preventing discharge
into water bodies.
14.   Helth. The focus here on nutrition and maternal and child health stems from the
well-established importance of this area in development. It calls for attention owing to the
transition that Nigeria has seen on the economic scale since wherever sharp changes in income
occur, there is the likelihood of nutritional and child rearing practices also being affected.
15.   Observation of the Nigerian diet leads to the conclusion that traditional foods in the
country are well-balanced and nutritious. The combination of cassava, or yam, with stew
(fish, meat, vegetables and peanut) is sufficient in calorie and protein. Neither Lagos nor
Kaduna showed a single case of severe malnutrition on the streets. The only exception was a
group of young boys belonging to the Koranic school in Kaduna. These boys had been forced
into begging for their mid-day meal and suffered from mild and moderate malnutrition. But
some micronutrient deficiency diseases, such as iodine deficiency disorders, vitamin A
deficiency and anemia were observed, mainly in Kaduna.
16.   That food habits are changing was evident in a number of ways. The loaves of bread
being hawked in Lagos and Kaduna were seen as a sign of a switch away from the cultural
"superfoods" of yam and cassava to more modern and convenient eating. Another insight into
this was obtained in a school in Lagos when children were asked what they did for lunch.
Children of handymen were more likely to bring homemade (and more nutritious) food than
the children of the traders. The latter, though still among the urban poor, were somewhat
better off and brought money with which they would buy snack foods -- empty calories --
available around the school.
17.   The same phenomenon was observed among weanlings. In a Lagos slum mothers,
asked what they fed their infants, reported that they gave them glucose water and infant
formula. They stated that the infant formula was prescribed to them when their babies were a
week old.
18.   Another curious manifestation of the trend toward modernity was the apparent weight
consciousness shown by pregnant women. In Lagos they reported that they had been advised,
"do not eat too much," during their pregnancy. In contrast, the Hausa informants stated
their belief that in pregnancy they should eat more because they were "eating for two".
19.   But tradition also has pitfalls. When immunization was raised, women in Kaduna said
none of their children had been immunized, simply because they (the mothers) never stepped
out of the "saura". Thus, they did not know about immunization, nor did they receive this
information from their husbands. At the same time, the appetite that was shown for such
information in their questioning suggested that if a medium was able to reach them in their
homes, the content would be very effective.
20.    Recommendations for messages on health include stressing the basic goodness of
traditional Nigerian food and infant feeding practices. For example, a grandmother-like
character extolling the virtues of some of the more popular traditional foods would be used to



- 43 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 4 of 7
address urban audiences, while in rural areas the same message would be presented by a
younger "city-type" woman. The latter, presumably, would be a credible source for rural
adults aspiring to modernity.
21.    A second area to be addressed stems in part from the discussion on water-borne
diseases in the previous section. Since this group of diseases invariably leads to dehydration,
education on oral rehydration therapy (ORT) using the simple homemade solution of salt,
sugar and water is advocated. In a situation where medical help is not always available, the
ORT method has the additional value of empowering the health provider that everyone looks
to - the mother.
22.   Third, breast feeding should be strongly encouraged. Despite all the claims made by
the manufacturers of infant formula, it is well established that mother's milk is the best
nutritional and emotional food for the infant. Reiteration of this practice would be possible in
both direct (in a culturally discrete manner) and indirect ways. The latter approach, for
instance, could stress that the bottle is responsible for the breakdown of the mother-child
dyad.
23.   Finally, immunization could be stressed during home visits by health workers and
perhaps singing minstrels. This would be effective in those areas radio does not reach or
where women are not allowed to use the radio for their own entertainment. Given the
pronatalist attitudes in the country and the belief that "God wills the children that we get." A
message could be developed that since children are given by God, they are in trust and we
must take care of them by immunizing them. This, it could be argued, would protect them
against the childhood killer diseases.
24.   Social Forestry. Africa has seen a four-fold increase in consumption of wood over
the past decade. In Nigeria, which has 16 per cent of its area in forest and woodlot, the
conversion of primary forests to plantations of rubber, palm oil, timber, pulp wood and
firewood is causing a loss of biodiversity and soil degradation. For this reason, the inclusion
of social forestry among the foremost concerns for the country is justified.
25.   Limited field observations revealed the loss of primary forests. Fifteen miles out of
Lagos, organized tree poaching was witnessed. Men, women and children stood with
headloads of logs and waited by the roadside to sell the forest products to passing log trucks.
Given the profile of these poachers, it is felt by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation that a
strong grass roots movement is needed to promote social forestry. Only then can the dire
need of the rural poor responsible for tree poaching be addressed. Further, since the Forestry
Department (under FEPA) has no rural outreach program because of lack of NGOs operating
in rural areas, no alternative is offered to the people who make their living felling trees.
26.   Messages on this issue should be targeted at women. They are the main collectors,
transporters (by headloads), users of fuel and minor forest products and sellers in the urban
markets. Consequently, they are also the prime beneficiaries of a social forestry program. In
fact, an effective message strategy would be to explain to women that the greater the depletion
of the forest, the more they will have to toil in order to collect the daily requirement of fuel
wood. Therefore, they would be well advised to plant tree species that can quickly provide
them with a new source of wood for sale and for home consumption.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 5 of 7
27.   Coupled with an emphasis on the importance and the benefits of social forestry, is the
selection of trees and bushes suited to the different climate zones in the country. To the
extent possible, there should be a tie-up between the education campaign and the logistical
network of the Forest Department so that different species were made available for this
purpose in different zones.
28.   A final point, one that is not directly related to communication but could facilitate the
effectiveness of an education campaign, pertains to the role of women. As a result of
conscious efforts made by the Forest Department, there are a number of women rangers who
are promoting social forestry. These women could be used to advantage in reaching and
educating rural women on this issue and on their role in preserving the environment.
29.   Education. In a country with the age profile of Nigeria, the importance of education
cannot be overemphasized. While some of the oldest centers of learning in Africa are located
in Nigeria, education in the country today does not inspire the kind of aspiration levels that it
perhaps did in the past. Observations in Lagos and Kaduna suggested that primary schools
were being attended in large numbers. Of these, only a small percentage continue to
secondary levels. It is speculated that economic pressures are responsible for a large drop-out
rate between the primary and secondary levels. Many secondary school age boys are hawking
on the streets and working as apprentices in trade.
30.   One highly motivated school teacher near Kaduna revealed his secret in being able to
retain a high proportion of his students in secondary school. He made several visits to the
homes of his students to convince the parents that education is an investment for a better life
and would enable the student to go beyond the village.
31.   Teachers in Lagos felt that the parents of little girls were more inclined to send them
to school because it would be their only chance to get educated. In a Montessori school
visited, a similar conclusion was suggested, along with the possibility that perhaps girls were
more willing to learn, given the social milieu. Some families appear to believe that one way
of being fair to their children is to allow all of them to attend school - though not for any
substantial length of time. This means that a child is in school for a couple of years and is
then replaced by a sibling; the same process recurs until everyone has had 'some school".
32.   A key recommendation here is to develop role models and heroes who demonstrate
the value of education in what they are doing. Such figures could be used effectively in a
stay-in-school campaign aimed at reducing the drop-out rate. Examples of such heroes may
be army officers for boys and computer analysts for girls. A direct relationship could be
drawn between the level of education and the career paths of these individuals.
33.   A second recommendation is to aim messages at the teacher. It appears that teachers
feel a sense of national role in what they are doing; with a little bit of public exposure and
praise the teacher could become a prime mover of educational improvements in his or her
community. These messages would seek to put the teacher on a well-deserved pedestal.
B.    Messages on Early Childhood Education
34.   Early Childhood Education is a complex process that combines cognitive, social,
emotional, spiritual and physical development. Personnel responsible for this education
include parents and other relatives, teachers and the community. Programs to sensitize these



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 6 of 7
individuals should include information on child development and on strategies and resources
for promoting it.
35.   Teachers. Facilitators, Trainers and Caregivers. The content of the programs for this
group is based on the fact that they all deal directly with children in the center or classroom
situation and in training the local community who will in turn socialize small children.
Program content would have four basic dimensions: child development, strategies for
learning, resources for development, and planning and communication.
36.   Child development focuses on the most important and comprehensive aspects of the
child's development including language, cognitive, psychomotor, affective and physical -
development and the part that good childcare, health and nutrition play in facilitating healthy
growth. Emphasis will be placed on the important role that the child's early years play in his
future success.
37.   Strategies for learning will cover methodological issues of teaching, skills transfer and
information dissemination to local communities and individuals who might have very low
levels of schooling or are functionally illiterate. Here the focus will be on role playing,
modeling, group discussions, observations, planning, ideas on how to make better use of the
environment, group organization and suggestions on how to deal with children and adults will
be the main focus of this area. The basic premise of all the strategies introduced will be that
young children learn best through the use of play, exploration and discovery as opposed to
rote learning and memorization. Some guidelines will be given to adults on how to best
handle children, learning and teaching situations.
38.   Resources for development that exist in the community will be identified. These could
assist children to learn as could materials, toys and other resources that are made by the
caregivers. Ideas for home-made learning aids will be included in training programs.
39.   Planning and communication is concerned with disseminating information about the
program to the public with the aim of building up alliances at the community level where
individuals and groups, especially of women, can assist in reinforcing program objectives.
Since early childhood education covers every aspect of child development connections will be
established with the health sector, agriculture and sanitation, creating opportunities for
collaboration at the community level.
40.   The content of videos to train teachers, facilitators, trainers and caregivers, could
include the following topics:
*     Identifying children's needs.
*     How to stimulate the basic aspects of development (language, psychomotor
and social development).
*     Conditioning a healthy learning and interacting with children.
*     How to observe and interpret children's behavior.
*     Play and fun for better learning and development.
*     Organizing the space available and how to enrich your environment.
*     Children's signs of good health.
*     Establishing healthy routines of hygiene at school.
*     Good health and nutrition and basic ingredients for development.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 7 of 7
41.   Parents' messages are based on the close relationship between the early years of life
as a basic foundation for future development and the important role that parents play within
that period. Specific content would be based upon local data and experience of how children
are raised and parents' expectations of early childhood education. Evidence so far gathered
indicates that parents expect preschools to focus narrowly on reading and writing.
42.   The main areas that could be developed for parents and would provide topics for
discussion, are child development and strategies and resources for development.
43.   Child development content will focus on different aspects of overall development of
the child but with concrete messages for the parents such as:
(a)    understanding the role of play;
(b)    children's developmental needs at different ages;
(c)    everything that occurs before six years of age determines the child's future;
(d)    children should be listened to, allowed to explore, manipulate, ask questions,
and establish a relationship that will help them to think and learn faster;
(e)    good hygiene is basic for good health - so washing hands, using clean water
and latrines are important habits to set up at this age;
(f)   the child needs to know that he or she is loved and it is important to praise
and support positive behavior and avoid physical punishment.
44.   Strategies and resources for development is a key area where parents will discover
that they have already had many constructive interactions with their children without knowing
the reasoning behind them. Every adult, regardless of education level, can catalyze the
overall development of the child. Parents will identify different learning resources in their
community and will use everyday activities as a source of improvement in children's
development. Since both parents and caregivers share in the child development process there
will be a strong connection between home and school.
45.   Some ideas for parents' program content are:
*     Family role in the development of the child;
*     Toys, a source for learning and sharing;
*     Children ask ... (specify questions);
*     Observe your child growing;
*     Love, good food and hygiene for the development of a healthy child;
*     Resources around the home and community to enhance child development;
*     Socialization, values and norms that will stay forever; and
*     How to eat well using food you have produced yourself.



NIGERIAN TELEVISION AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
GOVERNING
BOARD
DIRECTOR-|
-                      [ C~~~~~~ENERAL 
DIRECTOR  DIRETOR    DIRECTOR   IRECTOR       DIRECTOR      DIRECTOR                             DRCO                        T
CORPORATE    PROGRAMS|       NEUS       ENGINEERING   COMMERCIALS   FINANCE                                   D                   ENTRPRSE
AFFAIRS                                                                                                    OFFICE
DEPUTY        DEPUTY       DEPUTY        DEPUTY         DEPUTY         DEPUTY
DIRECTOR      DIRECTOR    DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR
ADMINIS-      PROGRAMS       NEWS       ENGINEERING   COMMERCIALS   FINANCE                                                                                                          4-
TRATION
ASSISTAN              T ASSISTA   NT    AS SISTAN ASSISTANT                          SECRETARY    ASSISTAT           CIPGENERAL
DIRECTORS    DIRECTORS   DIRECTOR        DIRECTORS      DIRECTORS    DIRECTOR         /LEGAL       DIRECTOR |       TV                                      ANAGERS
ADMTIIS-      PROGRAMS       NEWS       ENGINEERING   COMERCIALS   FINANCE            ADVISOR      INTERNAL       COLLEGE                                    NTA
TRtATION                                                                                            AUD IT                                                 STAT IONS
(2)           (4)          (2)            (3)            (2)           (1)                                                                                 (24)
MANAGERS      MANAGERS      MA   ER     | CHIEF           ANAGERS                                                                ANAGER      AI                   RSi
AND                      ENGINEERSI                 ACCOUTANTS        LEGAL       INTERNAL                    CORPORATE    RESEARCH
CHIEF                    IAVISOR                                                   AUDITOR                     SERVICES
PRODLCERS
CONTROLLERSCONTROLLERS ENGINEERS/  CONTROLLERS   ACCO                                C             C OSCONTROLLERSCONTROLLERSICONTROLLERS  CONTROLLERS
TECHNICIANS  -                OFFICE
Source:  Nigerian Television Authority



NIGERIAN TELEVISION AUTHORITY
PROGRAMMIES DIRECTORATE
ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTOR
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR
ASSISTANT              ASSISTANT               ASSISTANT                ASSISTANT
DIRECTOR               DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR                 DIRECTOR
PLANNING
AND                  PROJECTS             ENTERTAINMENT            ENLIGHTENMENT
DEV'ELOPHENT
MANAGERS               M ANAGERS               M ANAGERS                MANAGERS             | ZON AL                    M ANA GERS
AND                                            AND                      AND                  MANAGERS                SUPPORT
CHIEF                                          CHIEF                    CHIEF                                         SERVICES
PRODUCERS                                      PRODUCERS                PRODUCERS                                      Engineering
Administration
CHIEF                Coenrcials
PRODUCERS                 Finance
CONTROLLERS         [ONTROLLERS               CONTROLLERS              CONTROLLERS  I    |CONTROLLERS                   CONTROLLERS
Production services     Liaison and contractual   Draa and features    Documentaries                Zonal production
Design services           relations               Nusic and light       Public enlighterment and       nd syndication
Library services        Liaison with goverrunents    entertairment       Grade "An broadcasts       Post production
Plaming, Acquisition    International relations   Children, youth and    and coverages                centre, Kedua&
and scheduling        Festivals - local and       women               Instructional television
Regulation & monitoring    international                                Short program - caqtpigns
Rescsrch script *d                                                       educational fillers,
training (staff devt)                                                   Jingles
Source: Nigerian Television Authority



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
General/Financial Targets
of the NTA Under Commercialization
INTRODUCTION
The performance Agreement for The Commercialization of NTA was signed on
July 7, 1992, by the Federal Government of Nigeria, the Nigerian Television Authority
(NTA) and the Technical Committee on Privatization and Commercialization. Aims of
commercialization are to: improve the financial, technical, operational performance and
competitiveness of NTA; allow NTA to enjoy operational autonomy as a commercialized
enterprise; and facilitate NTA's efforts to increase its asset base to N2 billion over a plan
period of ten years.
Under comrnercialization, NTA will: operate purely on a commercial basis with
wide latitude to take business decisions (alongside its social responsibilities) that will
promote its growth as a business enterprise; determine its tariff structure so as to recover its
production cost and provide for adequate margin so as to earn reasonable return on
investment; operate its own budget, allocate its resources, raise funds within the capacity of
its balance sheet to finance its operations without government guarantee; acquire and dispose
of its capital assets as the organization's needs dictate; ensure financial prudence by the
adoption of efficient management techniques; keep proper books of accounts in line with
sound commercial principles which should give a true and fair view of the organization's
finances and operations; and manage the upkeep of plant and ensure the replacement and
rehabilitation of physical facilities.
In order to achieve all the aforementioned, NTA is to improve its main business of
program making and distribution, by adopting the following strategies: strengthen network
operations, at the expense of local operations because the former is more cost-effective and
efficient in earnings; invest in new technology transmitters and production equipment;
enhance professionalism by recruiting, training and retaining only high level manpower; and
pay more attention to mass audience/viewership orientation.



ItTA PROJRCTRtD RXVfI1J
tn T-r .. (1992  2001) PWxofct-d Profit a **4 Zoe stUat  nt
DETAILI                                    11         199          1993        1            9          1996       1997        1996        199t        2000        2001
Coaroial. R*v4nup,                      154.90      201.37       252.52      303.02      363.63      436.35     501.60       577.07     634.76      696.26      766.09
xnv..tm.nt Thoda                           N/A       11.00        14.00       16.00      21.00       23.00       26.00       26.00       31.00       34.00       37.00
Ottb-r flwco"-*g0 N0 000 00 l;00 0 0 0   :/A         17.00        21.00      26.00        32.00       35.00      36.00        38.00      47.00       51.00       56.00
SOTAiL pxWVx0                           154.90      229.37       267.52      347.02      416.63      494.35     565.j 0      643.07     712.76      763.26      861.09
P.repon-l coort                            fl/A      66.00       103.20      123.84      146.61      178.33     214.00      246.09      276.86      311.46      350.40
t-ohftoll "po                               /A       19.00        22.60       27.36       32.03       39.40      47.26        54.37      61.17       66.61       77.41
PZQgouctuo  CQ46t                          fl/A      23.00       27.60        33.12      39.74       47.69       57.23       65.62       74.04       61.30       93.71
A~bAdjSn,/No,0  Usxp-s.**00;.-.00000 ; ;0: 0 ;   N/A  29.00       34.60       41.76      50.11       60.13       72.16       62.99       93.36      105.03      116.16
5*1i"s: upnslo.                            N/A        4.00         4.60       5.76        6.91        6.29        9.95       11.45       12.U        14.49       16.30
t  D.pr.oiLatfiou;0000:000                 fl;j00 00 000055 00 0   "/A  26.00  91.86  111.60  119.00  119.00    133.00      147.00      161.00      175.00      169.00
STQACC Co$                                 N/A      187.00      265.06      343.64      397.20      452.64      533.62      607.72      679.31      756.09      644.96
PRcOIT/(JB66)i;00 0;;;V0i t;tti    t000042.37                                 3 l.3      19-43       41-51       32.10       3l535       33*47       25*17       16.11
CtDOH3LATXV  PRaOTI-/(LOSS)                          437          44.01      41            LZ       109.13      14,1        16.6        2&I          1r021.1,



- 51 -
ANNEX 2.7
Page 1 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Overview of Previous Educational Television Projects
1.    Bank-assisted Projects. Since 1970, the Bank has funded several educational projects with
television components. The following are examples of some of these efforts, illustrating the strengths
and weaknesses of ETV programs:
Ivory Coast 1 1970: In 1970, the Ivory Coast opted for an educational TV system as one
of its many tools to meet educational and rural development needs. This project is an
illustration of a sincere effort by government to respond to rural development problems,
during a period of imbalanced economic growth and a weak administrative, planning and
coordinating system. Despite these handicaps, the ETV system created a national network
of educational television that covered approximately two-thirds of the country, with the
potential of further reaching 80% of the population. In 1971, 20,000 students in Grade
1 were exposed to ETV. By the 1973-74 academic year, the project provided 2,278 tv
sets and reached 100,000 students in grades 1-3, approximately 21 % of enrollment. The
educational programs were consistent with the national school reform efforts to
Africanize the curriculum. Evaluations of ETV stated that the system encountered several
organizational, production and reception problems.  Program  success was further
hampered by the lack of support from parents and teachers and by the gap between
program message and recipients. To reduce the tendency of broadcasting tedious and
culturally insensitive programming, the evaluation team recommended the use of
traditional art forms of production (ie: dance, drama, drums, story telling, etc.) to
maintain the recipients' interest in the program. Several lessons were learned from this
experience, primarily, that television can be an effective tool to mobilize people in
national education campaigns. However, there is little that a television program can
accomplish without an effective mass media, political will and strong grass-roots level
organization. Other issues that need to be considered when designing educational
television programs include the effective use of mass media, cultural relevance, and the
efficiency of existing political-administrative system. A feedback system should be
installed into the program design, in order to monitor audience response. For many ETV
projects, sustainability is an important issue, given the high costs often attached to
production. In this particular project, costs were not supported by external source, due
to questionable issues in project sustainability.
Jamaica 2 1971: After project implementation, the Center for Instructional Television and
educational materials and aids doubled in size and improved in quality. Inturn, the ITV center
contributed to improvements in the quality of primary education through the expansion of well-
equipped instructional television network. However, the project experienced several financial and
technical difficulties (ie: inadequate funds and shortages of technical personnel, spare parts,
software and maintenance facilities) that resulted in the reduction of program scheduling from 5
to 3 days a week. Only 10% of the primary school enrollment were reached at relatively high
production costs. With annual operational costs estimated at J$404,000, the project benefitted
some 34,000 students, equivalent to J$12 (US$7) per capita. The project failed to include three



- 52 -
ANNEX 2.7
Page 2 of 6
crucial factors: (i) a pre-estimate of investment costs; (ii) a training program for teachers on the
use of ITV; and (iii) pre-testing or follow-up studies on program effectiveness.
Turkey 1971: The project provided equipment for additional program production and training
for program producers of the existing Educational Film, Radio and Television Center (EFRTC).
The PCR reported that this was an outstanding national institution whose operations were
significantly improved by the project inputs. The project was able to produce films, film strips,
videotapes and radio programs geared toward the needs of elementary schools in remote areas.
Subjects in science, mathematics and social science predominated program content.
Malaysia 3 1973: The 2,200 TV receivers provided by the project were not adequately
utilized due to lack of consumables and insufficient quantity of personnel to train and
organize teachers, and to support adequate maintenance. The lessons learned from this
project include: (i) use basic materials, first; and (ii) make provisions for adequate
training in program utilization, maintenance and evaluation.
2.     Other Project Experiences. By the 1970s, most ETV projects begun in the 1960s were thriving
and expanding at a progressive rate, as those in Samoa, Niger, Colombia, Mexico, El Salvador, Brazil,
and the UK. However by the late 1970s and 1980s, the number of such projects declined significantly.
Once accepted by the educational system, most ETV projects became less flexible and ceased to produce
innovative programs, too often adopting narrow goals and objectives. Educational broadcasting can be
expensive, therefore, the program design should, simultaneously, serve several development needs. The
Tele Niger project and the ETV program in El Salvador are two successful cases:
Tele Niger: Tele Niger began broadcasting in 1964 with the financial and administrative
support of the French government. This project had clearly defined its educational
philosophy which was directed at pre-school education. The program used the tele
communication medium in several creative ways, placing emphasis on message quality.
The Tele Niger project may not be a viable model for other countries to adopt, given its
heavy dependence on French technical assistance.
El Salvador: Experience in El Salvador demonstrates that ETV can successfully enhance
learning to large segments of the population. ETV was effectively used to carry out
national objectives of universal and free education to the school children. The program
increased its coverage from 20,000 Grade 7-9 secondary students in 1968 to 63,000
students in 1973.
3.    The Implementation of Educational Television Projects. Evaluation studies on radio instruction
programs have shown positive results in improving education in developing countries. With the right
investments in the design and delivery of programs, educational television can also produce good results.
Children's TV programs, such as Sesame Street, have proven to be a successful form of educational
programming in many different countries, providing a valuable prototype for future ETV projects. There
are several complex issues that affect the implementation of ETV projects, such as the right mix of
financial investments, effective institutional structures, teacher commitment and training, instructional
approaches, production techniques and equipment, and feedback and evaluation mechanisms. The right
amount of time, talent, money and commitment dedicated to reducing potential implementation barriers
will determine the success of ETV. Experience from decades of ETV projects provides useful examples
of effective strategies for implementing change and overcoming implementation barriers.
4.    Investments. Most ETV projects require large initial investments in production, broadcasting and



- 53 -
ANNEX 2.7
Page 3 of 6
reception. It may take a considerable amount of time before returns to investments can be realized. In
some cases, projects may need to last 10-20 years in order to allow all unit costs to fall into reasonable
levels. Unit costs of ETV projects are highly dependent on the size of the audience. The World Bank's
Jamaica Second Education project estimated that 34,000 students benefitted from instructional tv programs
during 1980-81 broadcast period, with reasonable per student operating costs of J$12 (US$7). Investment
costs may be wasted if projects do not achieve their potential in reaching large audiences. ETV projects
can be expensive or cheap, depending on the number of students it reaches. In some countries with
modest populations radio may still be more viable than tv, given the smallness of television systems.
5.    Local Input. Without sufficient local involvement, ETV projects are doomed to fail. First, this
applies to human resources. For instance, the Tele Niger project could have been successfully expanded
had it not been for its dependence on foreign technical assistance. Second local inputs in terms of
content, language, cultural context, folklore and the like are important to improve cultural relevance and
present situations with which viewers are familiar. This enhances understanding and concept formation.
Programs that are produced locally tend to be more effective for educational purposes than those that are
imported. Although adaptations of foreign programs or adoption and adaption their prototypes for local
purposes have proven value as is the case with the worldwide adaptations of Sesame Street.
6.    Management. In terms of management, many ETV projects had difficulty in reaching populations
situated in diverse geophysical locations, particularly in installation and supervision of programs. In
remote areas, projects may experience enormous logistical problems in obtaining clear broadcasting
signals, access to electricity, and in keeping sets operational. Complex logistical factors such as location,
activities, and other technical considerations should be carefully considered before carrying out ETV
projects. The language used to broadcast programs is an important determinant to the number of people
that are able to benefit from such programs. In the Malaysia 3 1923 project, educational opportunities
were expanded to remote areas, with Bahas Malaysia as the main language of instruction in the ETV
program.
7.    Administrative Structure. Many ETV projects failed as a result of inefficient administrative
structures. Designated agencies may not be equipped for large-scale organizational requirements needed
to produce, distribute, and deliver educational television programs. Experience has shown that most have
functioned under cumbersome and inefficient agencies, making unnecessary compromises on cost
overruns, civil service machinations and external interference (ie: FAC in the IVC). A major obstacle
to ETV is the lack of cooperation between education and mass media agencies in some developing
countries, in terms of allocating sufficient time on commercial stations. In Indonesia, the MOE was able
to go around this problem by bargaining for broadcasting rights on commercial television.
8.    Complex Eguipment. Tremendous effort is required in order to install, operate and maintain
equipment needed to deliver ETV programs. In the past, most ETVs failed as result of heavy start-up
costs and the lack of obtaining qualified technicians, involved to run such a scheme. Other constraints
include a lack of modem infrastructure system to support installation of ETVs, unstandardized and/or
complex equipment, and poor maintenance schemes.
9.    Teachers and Media. Opposition to ETV may come from within the educational establishment,
given the bureaucratic and autocratic nature of educational institutions. A major obstacle to project
implementation is the lack of support and consultation of teachers and teachers unions during the
implementation phase. Without adequate information on the ETV project, teachers may be reluctant to
support such an innovative method of instruction due to preconceived and often negative attitudes towards
technology. Most approaches used have had shortcomings. The master teacher concept employed in



- 54 -
ANNEX 2.7
Page 4 of 6
Hagerstown (USA) produced positive results but provoked jealousy among teachers above primary level.
In American Samoa where TV was used to develop a school system programs were designed to encourage
the professional development of school monitors who gained confidence and skills and began teaching
their own classes successfully. On the other hand in El Salvador where television was used to expand
the school system technical secondary school instructors were trained to take ultimate responsibility.
Since the project design had not factored in the additional remunerations that would accrue to higher
skills, the instructors demanded more pay and this led to strikes and unrest. The project completion
report showed mixed results with aptitude improved and achievement among the project subjects
comparing favorably with other grade 7 students. Tele Niger aimed at replacing the teacher with TV but
using untrained monitors. The project presented interesting subject matter using dynamic video
techniques. Absenteeism declined, the attrition rate was minimal, and achievement scores were favorable.
However, it was never demonstrated that such a use of TV was superior to traditional schooling and the
project encountered opposition. The major problem with this approach is the absence of interaction
between the medium and the student resulting in a lack of feedback essential for learning. Contrary to
some reports, videos per se do not solve this problem. However, the advent of multimedia systems is
beginning to address the issue. In some projects both the general public and the educational establishment
have been opposed to the use of television. In the Ivory Coast, parents opposed it as a culturally
corrupting influence while several education officials were opposed to innovation and renegged on their
project agreements.
10.   Instructional Approaches to Media Programming. Television instruction has been used both as
the primary mode of curriculum delivery and as a supplement to traditional instruction. In formal
education at primary level and above its best use is for enrichment purposes. It can provide mainstream
instruction in situations where the curriculum is less formalized; for example, in preschools. The
Children's Television Network (CTW) concept of taking children's television into the homes is the most
widely known example of this. Scheduling is a major problem if educational programs are distributed
through national and local broadcast services. Their timing is inflexible and classroom requirements are
for flexible viewing especially if programs are used to reinforce instruction. With the growth of video
and computer (including multimedia) technology the problem of inflexibility might be solved. The
fundamental paradox in the use of television in developing countries with deteriorating education systems
is that students and teachers desperately need enrichment materials but they are not available because costs
and other conditions are prohibitive. Hence a vehicle that could improve education through group
instruction, updating the curriculum and introducing modern instructional approaches is denied them.
11.    Production Technigues.  Television is both a complex and potentially powerful medium.
frequently, educational programs are produced by educators with little knowledge of production
techniques. Consequently, programs are unimaginative and television is not used to full potential.
Effective program production makes many complex demands on equipment and skills that are typically
found only in the television industry. Frequently ignored is the fact that, even if programs are used to
support instruction, they still require backup with printed materials for teachers' guidance and children's
review. Such materials, which should be developed in conjunction with program production, are costly
to produce and may be difficult to distribute.
12.    Feedback and Evaluation. Projects seldom include sufficient monitoring and evaluation and, as
a consequence there is inadequate feedback, upon which to base modifications that might improve project
implementation. If evaluation is included there tends to be a lack of rigorous testing, especially in the
case of formative evaluation. This omission is serious for many reasons, not least of which is that it
hampers investigation of critical cost-effectiveness issues that in turn inform decisions on project success,
sustainability, continuation and expansion. A major problem is weak project supervision in which there



- 55 -
ANNEX 2.7
Page 5 of 6
is inadequate oversight of budget and procurement, where no provision is made for equipment
maintenance and actions are not taken to ensure sustainability.
13.    Characteristics of Good ETV Projects. Successful ETV projects generally have incorporated good
transmission, readily available receivers, and limited the reach in favor of reliable high quality broadcasts.
Small intensive dynamic projects that have made full use of television's many attributes have proven most
successful. These include Tele Niger and China's TV university. Measures taken to address specific
problems are:
a.     minimize infrastructural and equipment problems through early assessment of the viability
of the infrastructure, in terms of transmission and reception, transportation and
communication delivery; careful contracting; on-the-job training sessions for personnel;
and establishment of efficient maintenance schemes;
b.     make educational television more accessible and acceptable to teachers and the public
programs by modelling effective instructional methods so that they educate teachers,
model methods and provide coursework, and working with instructional media
organizations for teachers--cultivate positive relationships with teachers;
c.    reach the developing country teacher in most need of support by targetting rural and
urban slum schools, large classes, teachers with limited background experience and a
dearth of instructional materials, and using television for training purposes;
d.     deliberately target the type of teacher most likely to use the broadcasts including primary
level and below using flexible timetabling, and including activity methods that would be
of use to underqualified staff;
e.     use television programs to maximum  advantage by taking local conditions into
consideration, using variable scheduling techniques through, for example, videos, initiate
curriculum reform, discovery-oriented approaches, with each program employing sound
instructional design based on research, monitoring and evaluation, and demonstrating
alternative instructional models;
f.     produce programs that capitalize on the richness and diversity of the medium use a well-
developed proven prototype (such as CTW), maximize the instructional effectiveness of
each production technique, and maintain program appeal to teach and reinforce learning
by using the medium to maximum effect with short clips, humor and repetition, in line
with children's attention span and absorption capacity; simultaneously, the media
limitations should be overcome through the adaption of successful models, cost cutting,
borrowing media footage where appropriate, and effectively providing short simple
written support materials; and
g.     establishment a comprehensive overall scheme to obtain relevant feedback at each stage
of an instructional media program to help enhance the appeal and instructional
effectiveness of the program and to include formative, summative and impact evaluation;
this should include program planning committees that receive and act on feedback, a
variety of techniques for formative evaluation, and mechanisms to feed the evaluation into
policy formulation and implementation.



- 56 -
ANNEXU27
Page 6 of 6
h.     program planning committees with feedback;
i.     various techniques for formative evaluation;
j.     feed evaluation into policy.
k.    to overcome implementation barriers resulting from  administrative incompetencies.
Governments with a history of bureaucratic inefficiencies have used pilot projects to
determine feasibility of ETV programs in light of their country-specific conditions. They
have made special arrangements to facilitate administrative efficiency (ie: restructuring
administrative patterns; hiring new officials where necessary; providing courses on
supervision, budgeting and accounting; and using computers for storing records, and
regular supervision.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND TARGET GROUPS
PROMOTE CHILD   SENSITIZE           UPGRADE      DEVEZLOP          CREATE
DEVELOPMENT     PARENTS             TEACHLERS    INSTITUTIONS      MODELS
ESTABLISH        RESEARCH
COMMITTEE
PRODUCE AND PURCHASE          VIEW VID EOS         I|OIO 
VIDEOS AND PRINTED            MODELING
SUPPORT MATERIALS             EFFECTIVE..
METHODS       CONSTRUCT  EQUIPMENT 
I-1     STUDIO     MAINTENANCE
PURCHLASE       DISTRIBUTZ BY      READ A ND USE      1EVALUA TE
AIRTIME AND     VIDEO-ON-WHEESLS,  PRINTED.I
BROADCAST       LOCAL CENTERS      MATERIALS         
,             I       ~~~~~~LOCAL & |COPRODUCTION|
I  I   I             I      ~~~~~~~OVERSEAS||SKILLS  I
r   h      01!!!!!9X LLLL2LLLLLLTRAININGllTRANSFER        I
|AILITATORS REINFORCE|       |INTERACT WITHI             
|VDEO LESSONS                 FAIITTR lSE!!?JI|MODIFY I
|LOCAL PRODUCER|
|COMPETITIONI
81>
Smurc: World Ban Mision                                                                       P  
0*
Fh-



- 58 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 2
Tar2et Population
PRIVATE VIEWERSHIP
Estimnated children in 3 to 6 age group              13.3 nillion
Percentage with access to television                36%
Potential preschool-age viewing population          4.8 million
Estimated children in 6 to 9 age group              7.9 million
Percentage with access to television                36%
Potential lower primazy school age viewing
population                                 2.8 million
STATE  IMPLEMENTER                                  LGA                                CENTERS
SOCIO- URBAN/
NAME             ECON  RURAL                NUMBER           CHILDREN
STATUS (U/R)
"COMMUNITY"
LAGOS            OMEP              MUSHIN           L        U                 100              7,200
OYO              UNICEF            OYO              L        R                 10               600
DELTA            NTA                       To be deternined
BENUE            NTA                       To be deterrnined
KANO             JMA, UNICEF               To be determined
KADUNA           UNICEF                    To be determined
ENUGU            UNICEF                    To be determnined
AKWA-IBOM        NTA                       To be determined
IMO              USAID/ AFRICARE           To be deternined
PRIVATE AND ASSOCIATION
LAGOS            PRIVATE                   IKOYI             H        U                 1                 39
PRIVATE                   IKOYI            H        U                 1                 100
LAGOS STATE               IKEJA             M       U                 1                 30
NCWS                      LAGOS             L       U                 1                 100
ISLAND
IWS                       YABA             M        U                 1                 120
UNILAG                    YABA             M/H      U                 1
KADUNA           JMA                       KADUNA            M        U                 1                 60
Source: World Bank Mission



- 59 -
ANNEX 3,2
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Distribution and Reinforcement
1.    Introduction. The target groups for this pilot project are located in community care centers,
private and association preschools, and at home.
2.     Distribution methods for each of these groups would be by: (a) NTA network transmission for
viewers at home and in some private preschools, (b) video-on-wheels to community centers in remote
rural areas with low-income populations, and (c) local viewing centers where there are several preschools
or a substantial population of preschool children as in high density suburban communities with incomes
ranging from low to middle.
For group (a) instructional materials would be bought from retailers licensed to sell both the videos and
printed support materials.  In this way partial cost-recovery would be effected.  For other, less
advantaged, groups the materials would be free unless the proprietors wished to purchase them. In which
case they would be charged an economic rate.
3.    Distribution schedules. An indicative distribution schedule is attached to this annex.
4.     Reinforcement.   A group of facilitators would be trained to reinforce the materials for
preschoolers, teachers and parents and to monitor project progress. They would then accompany the
video-on-wheels units. Their training schedule would tentatively include a ten-day training course in
preschool content and method about 18 months after project effectiveness. Course content would be
based on the videos produced by the ETU during their initial staff training period. The course would
include: (a) ways of listening to and observing young children and reinforcing learning, (b) observation
of and support to caregivers, and (c) assistance to parents and community members responsible for early
childcare.
A second, shorter, course about three months after the initial one would teach the facilitators how to
monitor the project. Content would include the quantitative and qualitative information to be collected,
methods of data collection, the instruments to be used and reporting requirements. Regular seminars of
two or three days duration would then be held throughout the project to review monitoring reports, assess
the effectiveness of project components, discuss problems, and recommend ways of addressing them as
necessary.
5.    The facilitators' role is central to the project since they would:
(a)    be responsible for training caregivers in short courses and on the job,
(b)    observe the children as they watch the videos and use the support materials and, from
these observations and judicious questioning, assess children's comprehension and
learning gains, and
(c)    observe the adults as they view social messages and, during subsequent focus group
discussions, how effective these messages were reinforcing them if necessary.
6.     Regular reporting to working group and steering committee through the monitoring and evaluation
consultant would enable project elements to be modified as required.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE
Mode of                                                   Project Year
Distrbution
3                        4                         5
Network                  One hour of               Two hours of              Three hours of
programming              programming               programming
weekly for               weekly year               weekly year
six months               round                     round
Videen
Wheels                   Programs shown            Programs shown            Programs shown
at 25 centers            at 25 centers             at 25 centers
once a week for          once a week               twice a week
six months; i.e.         all year round;           all year round                                 g
audiences at             i.e. audiences
these centers            watch two hours
watch one hour           weekly
weekly
Loal
Viewing
Centers                  26 videos                 78 videos                 130 videos
available for            available for             available for
flexible viewing         flexible viewing          flexible viewing
and/or                   Access to one            Access to two             Access to three
hour of network          hours of network          hours of network
transmission             transmission              transmission
Xx
0 .



- 61 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIA: DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Studio Design and Production Eguipment
INTRODUCTION
1.    In order to create an institutional and infrastructural framework for quality educational
and developmental television programming in Nigeria, a purpose built and equipped
educational television facility is required. Current facilities in terms of studio space and
equipment available to the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) are clearly inadequate. The
main production site at Victoria Island, Lagos, is severely overcrowded and much of the
equipment obsolete and in a sorry state of technical decline. It is to the great credit of
production and technical staff that NTA continues to broadcast!
LOCATION AND SPECIFICATION OF ETV UNIT
2.    Therefore an Educational Television Unit (ETU) will be purpose built and equipped.
As the centre of the Nigerian Television Service is based in Lagos, a suitable site in the area
will be identified. Situated in Lagos, the unit would have access to the network distribution
facilities, personnel and technical back-up from NTA Headquarters on Victoria Island and
would be close to the facilities of the independent video sector.
3.    Major difficulties arise if the unit were at NTA Victoria Island. The site is already
very overcrowded, and for the unit to develop its own identity as a centre for ETV
production, without the inevitable alternative production distractions which would exist at
Victoria Island, there is a strong argument for a location away from Headquarters but close
enough to allow communication and access.
4.    NTA has a large site at Ikeja for their local Channel 7 service to Lagos. This is
essentially local news service with minimal technical facilities on site. The General Manager
at Ikeja has expressed his support for the project. As space appears to be available, the ETV
studio, a two-storey self-contained unit of 4,200 sq.ft. could be housed on this site provided
that: (i) A site structural survey proved satisfactory; (ii) Undertakings as to the long term
future of the site as an NTA facility were available.
5.    The unit will be a self-contained production facility with all services housed in the one
building. The unit provides for a potential output of one hour of television per week with
three productions being generated simultaneously and with scope to expand this production
rate in the future. Over the five years of the project 130 hours of programming should be
possible. This will consist of 20 minutes of a pre-school programme produced by the Unit,
20 minutes of brought-in children's programmes and 10 to 20 minutes of social messaging.
In addition, training programmes for the care providers are envisaged.
6.    The basis of the unit is a studio of 2000 sq. ft. with a floor to ceiling height of 20ft.
This will provide a three camera facility with broadcast quality cameras mounted on studio
pedestals. The vision, lighting and studio engineering control room is located on the first
floor overlooking the studio. Studio sound control is adjacent and in a separate room.
Access from these rooms to the studio floor is from a balcony gantry and spiral stairs. A
voice-over (talking head) booth is provided in the studio sound control room, with wiring and



- 62 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 2
communication available to the adjacent post production suite.
7.     Post production, two off-line edit rooms and a computer graphics suite provide further
technical facilities.
8.     Space has been provided for an adequate scenery dock and props store with access for
the exterior and studio, a small workshop, an engineering and maintenance workshop, two
dressing rooms (one sufficiently large to provide wardrobe storage and make-up), and an
equipment store which provides secure garage storage for the location vehicle and its
associated equipment. An educational resource room which can be used as a conference room
and offices for administration, management and production staff have been included in the
design.
9.     One outside broadcast unit is planned with a four wheel drive vehicle, fully equipped
for a two man technical crew. Costing of the building will require specialist advice. Further
specialist advice on the power requirements, air conditioning, sound proofing and wiring
requirements of the building will be required. It is important that the wiring plan allow
flexible working with an elaborate distribution of video and audio tie lines to many parts of
the building and an efficient internal communication system of intercom and telephones.
10.    It is envisaged that the unit will be as self-sufficient as possible with regard to
servicing and maintenance of its equipment. Space, equipment and staffing have been
included in the overall plan.
11.    Spare parts are included in equipment provision. In project years three and four a
sum equivalent to 10% of the cost of the equipment will be set aside for essential maintenance
and replacement and 10-15% of the total cost will be allowed as depreciation toward
equipment replacement. This assumes an average lifespan of 7 to 10 years for the equipment.
12.    The summary of equipment requirement costs is as follows:
Studio Facilities
Studio Floor
Vision, Lighting & Engineering        $ 557,320
Outside Broadcast Unit                $ 74,920
Post Production & Duplicating         S 307,800
Graphics, Computer & Anination        S 72,000
Off-line Editing                      $ 37,800
Engineering Maintenance &
Workshop                              $ 45,400
Total                         $1,095,240
13.    A studio plan is provided in Attachment 1.



- 63 -                                     ANNEX 3.3
Attachment 1
70 '
50'                                        Power & Ventilation   5'
20_ _ _    _
Equipment Storage
Location Vehicle
12'
16'
40'    P      Dressing Room
a     Make-up        9'  Prooosed ZTV
s     Wardrobe Store    studio
STUDIO                            n     Dressing         6' Ground Floor
a     Room                plan
g       Office         8'
Height 20'                                            e     Project Controlle
8' 60'
Office
Unit Manager
Scenery                      Toilet   Toilet
& Props                                                       Reception &
Workshop   Engineering i               Adminis-       Security
Maintenance                tration  Main                Stairs
12'       8'              20'                    10'    Entrance
70'
50'                              20'
Educational
Resource &    12'
Committee Room
16'
Production
P      Office       10'
a
4 0'                             ETV Studio
a      Offline            First Floor
Studio                            a      Edit          6'  Plan
g
e       Office
Edit         6'
Graphic
|atry  Spiral                    
Stairs                                                  10' 60'
16'             14 '                15'           5'    4'
Sound Control      Vision               Store
16'               Room        Lighting           Video                         Ritchen
Post     Voice                Studio             Tape      12'        Toilet
Produc-  Over      5'        Engineer            Store                               12'
tion     Booth               Control Room                             Toilet
Pasaage                                                    Stairs



- 64 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Staffing. Technical Assistance and Training
Description of Terms of Reference
PRODUCTION
1.    ETU Production Unit Staffing. Vital to the success of the production unit is an
integrated and dedicated team capable of sustaining a consistent standard of production with
an identifiable project and an efficient rate of production. The unit's staffing structure is
shown in the attachment to this Annex. The dedicated team will be:
-     Project Coordinator
-     Unit Manager
-     2 Producer/Resource Coordinators
-     2 Directors
-     2 Production Assistants/Assistant Directors
-     2 Script writers
-     Lighting Director
-     Sound Director
-     Senior Cameraman
-     3 Camera Operators
-     Vision Mixer
-     Floor Manager/Studio Controller
-     Technical Engineering Coordinator
-     Studio-Service Engineer
-     2 Videotape Editors
-     2 Computer Graphics Artists
-     Administration support (Accountant, Clerical Officer, Clerical Assistant,
Security).
2.    Other staff may be required at times for complex productions drawn from NTA staff
in Lagos. The outside broadcast crew would be drawn from the above. In a small dedicated
team working on a directed output, flexible working will be a requirement. It is envisaged
that although staff would be allocated to a principal role or responsibility within the above
team, they would be expected to work flexibly and assist in other areas of production.
3.    Terms of reference for the staff are:
a.    Project Coordinator. Director of the project with overall management
responsibility and authority within the guidelines agreed with NTA. Particular
responsibilities will include: (i) ensuring educational, creative and technical
standards, (ii) maintaining the production schedule, (iii) financial control of
the ETU,(iv) acquisition of overseas material, (v) coordination with outside
agencies including the World Bank, providers of pre-school education (for



- 65 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 7
example, UNESCO, OMEP, private child care and pre-schools), and (vi)
responding as director to senior management of NTA.
To undertake this role the coordinator will need substantial experience of
management within television and education. It is envisaged that the
individual will be recruited from overseas. He/she would be appointed on a
fixed term contract to oversee the completion of the studio construction, the
development of the pilot programmes and initial stages of the production of
the educational programmes. A period of 18 months should be sufficient to
undertake the work and to identify and train a replacement.
b.     Unit Manager. Appointed from within NTA, the unit manager will have
production and management experience. Particular responsibilities will
include: (i) day-to-day management of the production unit, including technical
and administrative staff and technical facilities, (ii) ensuring production
schedules are met, (iii) ensuring that production budgets are met, (iv) ensuring
that quality criteria are maintained, (v) liaison with NTA for additional
staffing and technical requirements, (vi) liaison with the independent video
sector, and (vii) working with the project coordinator and deputizing as
required.
c.     Producer/Resources Coordinator. It is envisaged that the ETV unit will work
in modern production style. One overall producer will be responsible for all
productions undertaken by the unit. Each director will work with the producer
acting as a resources coordinator. Particular responsibilities will include: (i)
liaison with the unit manager to ensure that production staff and technical
facilities are available for each production, and (ii) booking staff and facilities
for each production and ensuring that no clashes occur.
d.     Directors. A director will undertake responsibility for one production, being
responsible for the control, technical quality and effectiveness of the
production. Directors and their assistants will undertake off-line edits.
e.     Production Assistants/Assistant Directors. Working to one director on a
production. They will assist and work as assistant directors, gaining
experience as directors on outside broadcast, and undertaking technical
functions as required in the unit.
f.     Script Writers. All productions of the pre-school programmes will be the
responsibility of one scriptwriter. This is a key role in the production process
and will involve an experienced scriptwriter who is capable of working closely
with the educational consultants and the directors. By using one writer a
continuity of programs will be possible and standards of program quality and
content in terms of objectives maintained. As the production rate increases
assistance will be needed (from other members of the team) but under the
direction and responsibility of the scriptwriter.
g.     Lighting Director. Responsible for lighting quality.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 7
h.     Sound Director. Responsible for sound quality, recording of voice-over dubs,
and assisting the videotape editor with complex sound edits.
i.     Senior Cameraman/Camera Operators. The senior camerarnan will allocate
the team of camera operators to studio work and location recording as
required. Responsible for picture composition. On location, camera
operators will also work as sound operators.
j.     Vision Mixer. Responsible for the operation of vision mixing in studio
control and assisting the video editor on complex productions.
k.     Floor Manager/Studio Controller. Responsible to director for management of
the studio floor. Responsible for scenery and props and should be capable of
construction of the scenery. Responsible for performers on the studio floor.
Ensuring safe operation in the studio.
1.     Technical Engineering Coordinator. Responsible for ensuring that all
technical facilities are in full operation during studio recordings. Act as
studio engineer ensuring technical quality of production. It is envisaged that
the self-contained unit will undertake maintenance of its own equipment.
m.    Studio-Service Engineer. Working to the technical coordinator. The post has
particular responsibility for servicing equipment.
n.     Videotape Editor. Responsible for all aspects of post productions, working
under the directors of programs.
0.     Computer Graphics Artists. Responsible for all graphic inputs to the
programmes under the control of the directors including rostra camera work,
captioning and computer animation. A strong creative flair together with a
technical capability will be required.
4.     Training. With the installation of equipment into the ETV Unit a period of team
building and training will be required. The Project Coordinator will play a key part in the
process. With the experience that they bring to the post in educational broadcasting they will
direct the training process to build the necessary skills. However, outside assistance will be
required.
a.     Overseas Training of Production Staff. Under the project 31 person months
of overseas training will be given to 13 production staff as follows:
(i)    computer graphics for 2 staff for 3 months each;
(ii)    videotape dubbing for 1 staff for three months;
(iii)   television direction for 2 staff for 3 months each;
(iv)    script writing for 2 staff for 3 months each;
(v)    educational television production for 1 staff for 3 months each;
(vi)   production specialist for I staff for 3 months;
(vii)  lighting for 2 staff for 4 weeks each;
(viii)  sound for 2 staff for 4 weeks each.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 7
b.     Overseas Visits. Key members of the production team should be given the
opportunity to visit overseas ETV Units to discuss production processes and see
alternative strategies on short study tours. The development of the format of the pre-
school program visit could be made to countries producing similar products, in
particular Turkey. This staff development should be encouraged at various intervals
and will encourage critical appraisal of their own product and methods of production.
c.     On-the job training. The majority of the training would occur on site, and in
the period immediately after the installation of equipment. When the contract is
placed for the purchase of the equipment, part of the specification should be the
provision of engineers to assist the NTA technical team to install the equipment.
After installation an engineer should be available for sufficient time to ensure that the
technical coordinator and service engineer are fully aware of the operation of the
equipment and its servicing needs. The engineer will need to be on site during the
training and run-up phase of operation to assist in solving the inevitable problems that
will arise. A further visit - 12 months after installation should be part of the
contractual agreement. In addition NTA staff should be in a position to contact the
engineers for "trouble-shooting".
5.     After appointment of the ETU staff a series of specialist training sessions should be
arranged. Specialist individuals will be approached, rather than a company, in that the danger
of a one company approach would be that a production philosophy may be imposed rather
than the team developing their own production techniques. These will include:
a.     A Director experienced in educational programmes be employed for a period
of 3 months to build the team and develop, under the project coordinator, the
approach to ETV work.
b.     A Studio Production Specialist to work alongside the technical crew,
including lighting, sound, vision mixing, editing and camera operators. This would
require six weeks intensive training.
6.     After the development of the pilot programs it may be necessary to continue a training
phase. It is assumed that the team recruited to staff the unit are already experienced
operational staff and that the training offered is to sharpen their skills and develop an
approach to educational television production. The concept of the development of a trained
team working closely together on a clearly identifiable product may provide a model which
can be applied to other parts of NTA. As staff move from the unit cross fertilization of the
ideas and skills will spread throughout the authority. The ETU can become the centre for
technical and production training within NTA. New staff and staff development training
could be given by additional staff being placed alongside the units team to learn techniques.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
7.    Terms of reference for technical assistants are:
a.    Project-Coordinator.  The Project Coordinator will be recruited for 18
months on a fixed-term contract. He/she will be understudied by the NTA Project
coordinator who will take over overall co-ordination of the project at the expiration of the contract.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3.
Page 5 of 7
Oualifications/Professional Experience
-      University degree in Educational Technology and sound professional training
and experience in Television production and directing.
-      Must be versatile television Producer/Director with sound experience in
Project Management.
-      Professional exposure to working conditions in a developing country, and
ability to adapt to new environment is desirable.
-      Excellent command of written and spoken English.
-      Experience in on-site training of production team.
Responsibilities.    The Project Coordinator will be responsible to the Senior
Management of NTA for the following:
-      Overseeing the development and production of the pilot programs (from
research and scripting to post-production).
-      Overall supervision of the project during the first phase of production (i.e. the
first year of actual production).
-      Development of an effective approach s.o Educational Television Production.
-      Overseeing the development of the content of the Training videos, and
supervising the production of same.
-      On site training and building up of the production team for effective and
skillful execution of their roles in the project.
-      Working closely with the NTA Project Coordinator in monitoring the financial
Control of the Educational Television (ETV) Unit.
-      Ensuring adherence to production schedule and maintenance of educational,
creative and technical standards for programs.
-      Working closely with the educational consultant in assessing the educational
value of acquired programs.
b.     Director.     The Director will be recruited for six months to work on-site
with the production staff at various crucial stages of the project from scripting to Post-
Production. He will be directly involved in the creative aspects of the production during
which time he will be understudied by the producer, directors and the other (creative)
production personnel.
Oualifications/Professional Experience
-      Sound professional training (and/or University degree) in television production
and directing.
-      Additional training or experience in television script writing.
-      Practical experience in on-the-job training of television producers and
directors, and ability to effectively impart production skills to trainees.
-      Ability to work under unusual speed to meet all targets within the tight
schedule of each visit.
-      Professional exposure to conditions in a developing country.
-      Good command of written and spoken English.
-      Sound and versatile experience in the production of programs: Educational,
Children's, etc.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 6 of 7
Responsibilities.    The Director will be responsible for the following:
-      Working closely with, and overseeing the production staff through the creative
aspects of the production (script development, editing, production, post-
production) at various crucial stages, within specified a time frame.
-      Contributing to the development of an acceptable format for the programs.
-      Assisting the Project Coordinator in building up a production team, and in
developing an approach for Educational Television Production.
-      Offering on-the-job training to the production staff, and in effect sharpening
their skills.
c.     Studio Production Specialist.       The incumbent will be recruited for a
six-month period of intensive on-site training for the technical, studio-based crew of the
programs.
OualificationslProfessional Experience
Sound professional training (and/or University degree) in television directing,
with emphasis on studio directing.
Additional training in some other specialty areas - such as Lighting, Camera
Operations, or Editing, as well as working experience in same.
O Other requirements, same as with the Director.
Reslonsibilities.    The main responsibilities will be:
-      Provision of on-the-jQbtraining for the studio crew in Lighting, Sound, Vision
Mixing, Camera operation and Editing.
-      Supervision of the production of the studio segments of the programs.
-      Imparting of skills in studio directing to production crew.
8. PROCUREMENT
a.     Procurement Specialist.     The procurement specialist financed for 24 months
from the proceeds of the IDA credit will be located in NTA. He/she will work for and will
be responsible to the Director of Programs and will be given assignments related to his/her
field of expertise, so as to expedite procurement under the project and facilitate the training of
and transfer of experience to local staff.
Responsibilities.    The procurement specialist's prime responsibilities will be: (i) tender
and contract documentation; (ii) effecting procurement procedure and processing; (iii)
implementation control and monitoring of contracts; and (iv) training of and transfer of
experience to local staff. Specifically, the procurement specialist's duties will be those listed
below but not limited to: (i) Establish effective monitoring and control systems for
procurement; (ii) Participate in the actual procurement process and logistics;
(iii) Review the documents used for the procurement of goods, services and consultancy
services through local and international shortlisting and competitive bidding and, if necessary,
recommend modifications to the same; (iv) Participate in the selection of consultants,
prequalification, evaluation of tenders, contracts negotiations and contracts ward
recommendations; (v) Develop and conduct training programs as required.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 7 of 7
Oualifications. The successful candidate should be experienced and a professional in materials
management with extensive experience in procurement of goods and services.
b.     Nigerian Counterpart Procurement Officer.    A Nigerian counterpart procurement
officer will work for and be responsible to the Procurement Specialist who will train him/her
in the procurement of goods and services under the project.
Duties.       Under the general guidance of the procurement specialist the procurement
officer will be trained to:
(i)    review requests for equipment, goods and services;
(ii)    prepare specifications and bidding packages consistent with the requirements
of lending agencies for (a) limited international bidding, (b) local competitive
bidding, and (c) international competitive bidding;
(iii)   evaluate bids;
(iv)   make recommendations to NTA for the award of contracts;
(v)    prepare tax exemption certificates;
(vi)   arrange for pre-inspection of goods to be imported;
(vii)  supervise logistics for various institutions;
(viii)  assist with port clearance;
(ix)   ensure that the recipient institutions receive their requirements; and
(x)    liaise with the appropriate officers in recipient institutions to determine the
condition of the goods on arrival at the project site.
Oualifications.      Applicants for the post of counterpart procurement officer should
possess the following qualifications and experience:
(i)    university degree,
(ii)   familiarity with public procurement procedures in a government or public
undertaking,
(iii)  three years experience in procurement operations preferred,
(iv)   knowledge of contract practices -- Nigerian experience preferred, and
(v)    good writing and communication skills in English.
9. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Description. The local monitoring and evaluation specialist will be required to (a) design a
monitoring and evaluation system; (b) develop and pilot the instruments to be used; (c) train
staff; (d) oversee the monitoring; (e) arrange for formative evaluations and ensure feedback;
(f) organize and carry out regular impact evaluations; (g) arrange a summative evaluation; and
(h) liaise with relevant local and foreign agencies to perform ad hoc evaluations. He/she will
be a full-time member of both the Steering Group and Working Committee and will report to
the Director of Programs NTA.
Oualifications. It is expected that the successful candidate will have an advanced degree in
educational assessment and evaluation, a background in learning theory and curriculum and
some knowledge of the use of the media for education (educational technology).
The specialist will be contracted for 4 years full-time.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3.5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Project Management Structure
1.    A Steering Group will be responsible for the organization of the ETU. It will comprise:
Project Coordinator
Unit Manager
NTA Director of Programmes
Ministry of Information and Culture Representative
Educational Consultant
Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant
Representative of the Pre-School Group
2.    The Group represents the major control on the activities of the ETV Unit and is responsible for
the quality of output, the efficient running of the Unit and financial control. It will be responsible,
through the Director of Programmes, to the Director General and Board of Governors of NTA.
3.    A key member of the Group is the educational consultant. This post is crucial to the success of
the project in that the educational input will be monitored and checked by the consultant. The consultant
will work closely with the scriptwriter and programme directors to produce the educational input. All
overseas material will need to be assessed for its educational value by the educational consultant working
with the project coordinator.
4.    A second Working Committee will be established to respond to the Steering Group. This group
will comprise:-
Project Coordinator
Unit Manager
Scriptwriter
Teaching Subject Specialist
Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant
Directors
Representatives of all pre-school group
(including UNICEF, OMEP, Private Pre-Schools)
Representative of Facilitators
5.    The evaluation and feedback from the recipients of the service will largely come through this
group, and major issues of educational validity will be the concern.
6.    For project management structure see the attachments to this Annex.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.5
Attachment 1
Institutional Arrangements
STEERING
GROUP
WORKING
COMMITTEE
LOCAL      buy programmes fund equipment           UNICEF
buy air-time   fund LVC
SOCIAL     fund productn  fund VOW                 EARLY
PROGRAMME   buy
NTA DIRECTORATE    L support
SUPPLIERS   air                       VOW           CENTRZS
OF
PROGRAMMES
FOREIGN                                            OMZP AND
ACQUISITION
buy                             LYC    OTHER
_    l      l         VOW~~~~ COMMUNITY
PROGRAMME     PROGRAMMZ            PRESCHOOLS
ACQUISITION   PRODUCTION    video
KEY:  LVC   - Local Viewing Centres
VOW   - Video on Wheels
netwk - network



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Educational Television Unit Staffina
| PROJECT COORDINATOR       I
|UNIT MANAGERI
| CRIPT WRITR            PRODUCER/ RESOURCE S COORDINATOR |       ADMINISTRATION|
|ACCOUNTANT  |CLERICALI            
F         ~~~OFFICER|
|CLERICALI
|ASSISTANTI
|IETRS     [ FLOOR MANAGiER     |TECHNICAL ENGINEERING I
.    I  I                  ~~~~~~COORDINATOR
| PRODUCTION ASSISTANTS
STUD;.O     LIGHTING   SOUND       VISION   VIDEOTAPE       SENIOR           COMPUTER
SERVICE     DIRECTOR   DIRECTOR   MIXER    EDITOR           CAMERAMAN        GRAPHICS
ENGINEER                                                         I                                           t 
CAMERA
OPERATORS



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Pre-Production and Production Schedule
1.    There are clearly identifiable stages in the Pre-production schedule. These are outline
below and shown diagrammatically in the attachment to this Annex
a.     Commission Architect to draw plans of the production unit and cost. The
building technical consultancy will be required to assist the Architect on:
Acoustic Design & Soundproofing
Air Conditioning requirements
Electrical requirements
Wiring - electrical, audio & video
b.     Structural site survey
c.    Issue contracts to construct unit & commence construction
d.     Appoint:
Project Coordinator
Unit Manager
Technical Engineering Coordinator
Educational Consultants
e.    Identify contractors for equipment supply, place contract
The contract will be awarded to one company or Managing Agent who will
supply all the equipment, install and produce engineering support.
f.     Appoint Graphic Artists - identify training location and arrange training.
g.     Appoint Production Staff as outlined in Annex 3.5
h.     Set up Steering Group and Working Committee as in Annex 3.4
i.    Install equipment.
j.     Arrange overseas study tours for key production personnel.
k.    Program format development - production planning and write pilot scripts.
1.     Training of production staff - team building with outside assistance.
m.    Purchase equipment for video on wheels and viewing centre - identify location
and install.
n.    Produce care workers training video.
o.     Produce two pilot programs, back up materials, distribute, evaluate - revise
formats as necessary.
p.     Script programs.
q.     Develop network transmission and distribution schedule.
Develop the detailed production schedule.
r.     Undertake research studies.
s.     Produce programs and support materials - distribute - evaluate.
An approximate time-scale of the pre-production process suggests that full production is
unlikely to start before 21 months after the start of the project but depends largely of factors
such as the time taken to build the studio, equipment arriving on schedule, equipment
installation etc.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Pre-Production and Production Schedule
Time frame
Activity          3 months    3 months    3 months    3 months    3 months    3 months    3 months
Architectural
design, costing
and site survey   xxxxxxxx
Issue building
contract                   xx
Construction                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Identify
contractors for
equipment supply xxxxxx
Place equipment
contracts                      xxxxxxxxxx
Building complete                                    X
Appoint key
personnel                            xxxxxxxxx
Train graphic
artists                                      xxxxxxxxxxxxx
Overseas study
tours                                  xxxxxxxx
Install equipment                                       xxxxxxxxxxx
Production Unit
fully operational                                                   X
Appoint production
staff                                                         xxxxxx
Set up steering
& working groups                                              xxxxxx
Train production staff                                                 xxxxxxxxxxx
Produce training videos                                                    xxxxxxx
Identify locations VOW
& LVC                                                                      xxxxxxx
Purchase equipment for
VOW & LVC, install                                                               xxxxxxx
Develop transmission
& distribution
system                                                                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Produce pilot                                                                                xxxxxxx              4 Z
Evaluation                                                                                   xxxxxxxxxxx         x
Script programmes                                                                xxxxxxxx
Undertake research studies           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                            .
Full production commences                                                                           X



- 76 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Evaluation Strategies
Phases of Evaluation
1.    There are two phases to the evaluation of this project: the pre-test phase and the on-going phase.
The pre-test exists through the production and testing of the first two program episodes. The on-going
phase should incorporate lessons learned from the pre-test phase and will continue throughout the duration
of the project.
2.     The pre-test phase occurs after two episodes have been produced but before the other 24 are
locked into place, assuming that the initial production will be 26 episodes. The purpose is to fine tune
both the programs and the survey and other evaluation instruments as necessary.
3.     The on-goi.1g phase consists of three distinct stages occurring during the first year of full scale
production, at the end of the first full year of production and at the end of years two through five.
(a)    During the first year of full scale production:
(i)      Conduct a survey of video on wheels and local viewing center sites to
ascertain appeal, involvement and recall of program materials to children
and parents.
(ii)      Facilitators hold focus groups with children and with parents on reactions
to specific program elements and to get answers to pre-designed
questions probing for information about long-term recall of program
elements. To establish replicability in the face of so many variables, the
focus group questions will be standardized, the discussions should be
taped, and the experimenter (facilitator) should write notes on the focus
group immediately after each is finished, following a standard format.
(iii)     Project evaluation specialist visits a systematic cross section of viewing
sites (video-on-wheels, local viewing centres, preschools using broadcast
and video transmission), observes viewing conditions, talks with
children, parents, teachers, administrators, and writes a report that
follows a format designed in conjunction with the project designers.
(iv)      Compilation and analysis of survey data, and qualitative assessments.
(b)    At the end of the first full year of production:
a mid-project evaluation meeting among project designers, implementers,
evaluators, outside experts, and adult representatives of the targeted audiences to
assess the successes and problems with the program to date and make mid-course
corrections. Decisions on new or altered evaluation instruments should be part



- 77 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 2 of 4
of the agenda.
(c)    At the end of years two through five, compilation of survey data, qualitative assessments,
and summative analysis.
Evaluation Techniques
4.    Pre-test evaluation. The purpose of this component is to:
(a)    get immediate reactions from the target audience about the programs so that project
designers and implementors can fine tune these and subsequent programs; and
(b)   test the evaluation instruments and fine tune them.
5.     The pre-test should take place in three centres in three geographically distant states; at least one
of the sites should be a rural area. There should be two experimenters in each location (they can be the
same two; indeed ideally would be the same, but would need to be fluent in the appropriate languages).
The experimenter should separate the students from their parents; one experimenter should talk with the
students and one with the parents before showing the program. Each experimenter will have a list of
questions designed to test the students' or parents' pre-existing knowledge about the topic covered. (For
example, if the message in the show for the students is to identify, say, the numeral 2, the experimenter's
pre-set questions aim at eliciting information about numbers, distinctions between numbers and letters,
and shapes, etc. If the embedded message for the parents is the need to wash one's hands before eating,
the same sort of questions can be designed to ascertain the pre-existing understanding about health
practices.)
6.    The second step in this pre-test is to show the program episode to the students and parents.
Following the showing, the two experimenters should again talk with the children and parents (same
experimenter with the same group) and ask the same questions again. Then the experimenters should
conduct focus groups and get the children and their parents separately talking about the show by asking
them a series of pre-designed very open-ended questions. The focus groups should be taped for back-up
to the experimenters' notes and for archival purposes. These "experiments" should be conducted with
as much rigor as possible; in other words, there should be standardized directions for the experimenters,
each of whom should be coached in acceptable experimenter techniques.
7.    The second part of the pre-test is program team site visits; the project coordinator, consultants
and NTA officials responsible for the project, representatives of major funding agencies, should visit
several of the sites (ideally in several geographically dispersed locations) to watch video on wheels and
local viewing centre showings and then t2lk with children, parents and teachers/administrators. The
purpose here is immediate feedback from the targeted audience to the program creators; it is also to give
the program creators at least an experiential understanding of the context in which people will be
watching the shows. (In this connection, it is worth noting that the context will be considerably different
from an editing suite and from the environment in which a North American or European preschooler
watches a similar program).
8.     On-going process evaluation. This will use four approaches:
(a)    Focus groups to access impact. One major component of the evaluation is an ongoing
series of focus groups that will continue over time and in selected communities. One



- 78 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 3 of 4
way to circumvent the replicability problem is to develop a standardized set of focus
group questions, record the discussions, translate selected discussions (selection criteria
to be determined), and then use content analysis to uncover the information.
(b)    Small survey. Within the constraints and priorities of this project, there is no way it will
be possible to construct a survey that would elicit reliable and significant statistical survey
information. It would, however, be possible and reasonable to begin to assemble a data
base of information about student and parent responses to the programs.
(c)    Observation. One person should be hired as a full-time facilitator/evaluator, attached to
the project, to make systematic observations of the program in use, perhaps conduct some
focus groups, and to bring the on-going results of that research to the program producers'
meetings. In addition, there will be someone at both the local viewing centres and
connected with the video-on-wheels truck who can briefly assess student and parental
behavior. The information collected in this way is particularly important in order to
measure the cost effectiveness of the project. What should emerge are clear indications
of student interest in the videos. Questions would include - How often do children ask
about the shows? Do they incorporate figures from the shows into their play ? Make
up stories about those characters?
(d)    Survey of television broadcast viewers.  Attach two questions to a larger survey to
ascertain the numbers of home viewers who watch the programs and the frequency of
viewing. Surveys to which these questions could be attached include those done for
international organizations.



- 79 -                                            ANNEX 3.7
DEVELOPENT COM UMICATION PROJECT                       Page 4 of 4
Schedule
timinj of activi    I              activity, And purpose             )    sa(s responsilble44
show one episode to three sit-, at least one Of which    fujl-tine proect
should be in a rural area and one in the North, hold  evaluator leads focus
After one episode has  focus group and individual interviews.           goups; holde
beein produced but                                                      intervrws with
BEFORE the other 24  Primary recipient of infornation: progam           children, pEit
are lo.-ked into place.  implernentors (consulting project coordir ator, directors, - teace  m
producsrs. steeving committee)
several wmws during                                                     project cortf
early days of the    site visits by projc, implementaton and designes
project              Purpose: short tern feedback
facgltaton who
Dtnring fint year of    Conduct sur'ev cf video on wheels, local viewying  accompany video
production           center sites, and pr.vate pre-schools              vans aMd asstant at
local viewtng centbs
on-going collectien    Purpose: collect on-going survey data
after each showirg
three ties a year for  focus groups in video on wheels, local viewing center   project evaluator and
a representative cross  sites, and private pre-schools                  staff
section of viewing
centers
three times a year   -control focus group                               proje  evaluator
purpose. to compare the fuidings about larning
andbehavior change from other focus groups
|method: e.ctlv the samre as on-go,ing focus   UPS
as often as possible   survey of terrestral users - size of population   outside organizations
but probably at most  purpose: to ascertain number and frequency of hhome'
once a year during          television viewers
course of project     method: pigy-back onto existing survefy effort
observation period    Observaeon by project evaluation specaiist of a    project evaluator
iminediatelv precedes systematic c.oss section of viewing sites (video on
focus groups         whee3s, local viewi ng centers, pre-schools using
broadcast transmission),
by end of first year    Compilation and analysis of sunrey data, qualitatve  outside evaluation
assessments                                        coTisultant hired by
project funders and
assisted by proje*
_____________________________   ievaluator
Mid-gprni                                                                                _
.  d-programn evaluation meedtng among project
At end of fir5t full    designers, implementz tions, evaluators, donors
year of production
Purpose: to assess success and problems of first year'i
programs and change future episodes and
accomrpanving material as neeied
at end of first year  Preparc statistical data indicating number of viewers~,   project evaluator in
measures of learning and behavior change gleaned from  cooperation with
focus grup and survey evidence                      outsde evaluator
cutside evaluation
compilation of survey data, qualitative assessments, and consultant aralytes
At end of project    smnative analysis.                                  final formution
Final evaluation seminar of project implementation
staff, repre.stativos of funding orpridaticns
Purpose: to evaluate resons for succe  and
problerns In light of continuing activities and future
_____ _____ __ _   siruilar vroect:s



- 80 -
ANNEX 3.8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Research Studies
1.    Introduction.   Various forms of research are essential to the success of this project and to
determining how gains made under the project can be sustained and extended to a broader population.
There are basically two types of research activity. The first is an integral part of program production
and includes investigations into content, effective presentation, language, and audience characteristics.
This will begin early in the project cycle, continue throughout project implementation and become
encapsulated into a permanent production process. The second is more formal research studies to address
questions that may impede project success and sustainability.
2.    Research Studies. Three research studies are envisaged as part of the communication project, in
addition to the research required into the formative, summative and impact evaluation processes necessary
in the formulation of effective pre-school programming. These studies will be carried out by local
consultants, except where the expertise is not available, and will be of about three months duration each.
3.    Research into transmission problems and their solution. Nigeria presents many problems in the
transmission of television broadcasts due to the geography, size and climate of the country. The study
will monitor the present coverage of transmitters their current effectiveness and consider ways of
improving transmission. In addition it will focus on new technologies and the ways that they could
improve coverage and signal strength. The study will focus on possible uses of satellite delivery systems
to cover the whole country. The impact of this on the ETV programming would have a clear
significance. The use of satellites for the transmission of information technology data should be
included. A proposed schedule for future developments in transmission will form part of the study. Data
from experiments in the use of satellite on the Indian sub-continent, in North America and Europe would
provide useful comparative information.
4.    Future Developments of the Dedicated Production Unit. The research study will investigate the
future structure and organization of the ETU. The ETU has been established to serve a particular market,
namely pre-schools. Clearly there is a major potential in increasing the range of educational programs
made by NTA. This would include the production of programs for other sectors of the education system,
from primary, through secondary and into higher education. Potential for the production of technical and
vocational training productions should be investigated together with open learning models such as the
Open University and the Open College in the U.K. The medium can be used alongside other media to
develop literacy awareness and the production for adult education of basis literacy and numeracy
programs has potential. These possibilities should be explored. The lessons from past failures to develop
educational television in developing countries must be examined further to ensure that mistakes made in
the past in other countries can be avoided.
5.    Coordinated Use of the Media in the Interest of Development. For the print and electronic media
the study is intended to identify the advantages of media use for development, investigate those issues that
can most effectively be addressed through the media and how the media can be used to empower the
people toward development. This will be done through comparative and empirical studies obtained from
an extensive literature search and from the local environment.



- -81'
ANNEX 3.9
Page 1 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY YEAR
(US$ MOM)
-   -   .-  . - . -   -    .    . .; . - . - .   . -    ---~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .  ......
Pt~c Cpiwet            b        1993   199    965   196   19X    199   19-1
I. Produce and Acquire 1natuclo. M a
(a) Production of pre-school progrm  0.000  0.000  0.100  0.199  0.199  0.000   0.498
(b) Production of social msarge.     0.000  0.066  0.133  0.133  0.000  0.000   0.332
(c) Acquisition of video programs    0.000  0.027  0.054  0.054  0.000  0.000   0.135
(d) Productdon of video packages     0.000  0.020  0.226  0.452  0.452  0.000   1.150
Subtotal       0.000  0.113  0.513  0.838  0.651  0.000   2.116
I. DiautrflIbuctual Matwis 
(a) Distributin and reception equipmat    0.000  0.000  0.097  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.097
(b) Vehicles for video-on-wheels     0.000  0.000  0.250  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.250
(c) Local operating cost             0.000  0.000  0.013  0.019  0.019  0.013   0.064
Subtotal       O.000  0.000  0.360  0.019  0.019  0.013   0.411
M. Provide Rslnfortcemm of the Materia
(a) Productin cost of training progams  0.000  0.000  0.013  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.013
(b) Training sesions                 0.000  0.000  0.021  0.007  0.004  0.004   0.036
Subtotal       0.0   0.000  0.034  0.007   0.004  0.0j4   0.049
IV. Intutiona Capaciy Building
(a) Studio constrction and fixture.  0.340  1.190  0.170  0.000  0.000  0.000   1.700
(b) Producton equipment              0.000  1.145  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   1.145
(c) Staff training                   0.244  0.244  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.488
(d) Staff slaries                    0.055  0.110  0.275  0.275  0.275  0.110   1.100
(e) Consultants                      0.030  0.086  0.336  0.048  0.000  0.000   0.500
Subtotal       0.669  2.775  0.781  0.323  0.275  0.110   4.933
V. Initat sad Tect a Model
(a) Mangemeat                        0.002  0.008  0.010  0.008  0.008  0.004   0.038
(b) Research                         0.030  0.060  0.060  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.150
(c) Monitoring and evaluato          0.000  0.093  0.139  0.019  0.019  0.019   0.290
Subtotal       0032  0.160  0.209  0.027  0.027  OQ        0.478
Total Base Coat                0.701  3.049  1.897  1.215 0.976  0.150   7.986
Physical Contingencies         0.070  0.305  0.190  0.121  0.098  0.015   0.799
Price Contingencie             0.045  0.343  0.279  0.223  0.224  0.039   1.152
Dutais and taxe.               0.000  0.186  0.107  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.293
Total Cost                     0.816  3.882  2.472  1.559  1.297  0.203  10.230
Source : World Bank staff estmate.
Assumtons   : See page. 7 & 8 of this annex



- 82 -
ANNEX  3.9
Page 2 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
BY LOCAL AND FOREIGN EXPENDITURES
(USS mlion)
X    :SPr cct C:omponent:     S  |0i;E EEE-:Sk L4ca1 t3-SForign  0-:: E ToItal:  Exc.b:;ee Cio itf 
I. Produce ad Acquire Inatnctoga Mlteria
(a) Production of pro-school programs     0.249     0.249      0.498     50.0%       6.2%
(b) Production of social mesges           0.166     0.166      0.332     50.0%       4.2%
(c) Acquisitionofvideoprograms            0.027     0.108      0.135     80.0%       1.7%
(d) Production of video packages          0.753     0.397      1.150     34.5%      14.4%
Subtotal              1.196     0.920     2.116      43.5%      26.5%
n. Distribute Intructional Materials
(a) Distribution and reception equipment  0.019     0.078      0.097     80.0%       1.2%
(b) Vehicles for video-on-wheds           0.005     0.245      0.250     98.0%       3.1%
(c) Local operating cost                  0.064     0.000      0.064      0.0%       0.8%
Subtotal              0.088     0.323      0.411     78.5%       5.1%
III. Provide Radnfocemat of the Materisls
(a) Production costa of training progams  0.008     0.005      0.013     40.0%       0.2%
(b) Training sessions                     0.036     0.000      0.036      0.0%       0.4%
Subtotal              0.043     0.005      0.049     10.5%       0.6%
IV. Institutional Cpaciy Building
(a) Studio constructon and flxtures       0.379     1.321      1.700     77.7%      21.3%
(b) Production equipment                  0.057      1.088     1.145     95.0%      14.3%
(c) Staff training                        0.000     0.488      0.488     100.0%      6.1%
(d) Staff alarica                         1.100     0.000      1.100      0.0%      13.8%
(e) Consultants                           0.240     0.260      0.500     52.0%       6.3%
Subtotal              1.776     3.157     4.933      64.0%      61.8%
V. Inisae and Test a Model
(a) Management                            0.038     0.000      0.038      0.0%       0.5%
(b) Resarch                               0.075     0.075      0.150     50.0%       1.9%
(c) Monitoring and evaluation             0.090     0.200      0.290     69.0%       3.6%
Subtotal              0.203     0.275     0.478      57.5%       6.0%
Total Rae Cost                    3.307     4.679     7.986      58.6%     100.0%
Physical Contingencies            0.331     0.468     0.799      58.6%      10.0%
Price Contingencies               0.489     0.663      1.152     57.5%      14.4%
Duties and t                      0.293     0.000     0.293       0.0%       3.7%
Total Cost                        4.420     5.810     10.230     56.8%
Source     World Bank staff estimates
Assumptions : See pages 7 & 8 of this annex



- 83 -
ANNEX 3.9
Page 3 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
(USS m;llion)
Somme of Financing
by PM  Co -p-            -      - -        1994   1995   1996   1997 1998   199"3
IDA
1. Produc an Acquire Iniructlea Matwial
(a) Production of pre-chool programs  0.000  0.000  0.124  0.258  0.267  0.000   0.649
(b) Producion of social mecages       0.000  0.080  0.165  0.172  0.000  0.000   0.417
(c) Acquisition of video programs     0.000  0.033  0.068  0.071  0.000  0.000   0.171
(d) Production of video packages      0.000  0.024  0.280  0.580  0.602  0.000   1.487
U. Ditrbuto lnstructla  Materials
(a) Distribution and reception equipmet    0.000  0.000  0.031  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.031
(b) Vehicles for video-on-wheed       0.000  0.000  0.190  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.190
(c) Local operating coss              0.000  0.000  0.007  0.012  0.012  0.008   0.040
m. Provide Rainforceimet of the Materas
(a) Production coss of training progaksn  0.000  0.000  0.016  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.016
(b) Training ssions                   0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000
IV. Institutional Capacity Building
(a) Studio construction and fixtures  0.396  1.441  0.214  0.000  0.000  0.000   2.051
(b) Production equipment              0.000  1.395  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   1.395
(c) Staff training                    0.287  0.298  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.585
(d) Staff salaries                    0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000
(e) Consultants                       0.034  0.102  0.420  0.062  0.000  0.000   0.618
V. Int  and Test a Model
(a) Mangement                         0.002  0.009  0.012  0.010  0.010  0.005   0.048
(b) Research                          0.035  0.072  0.075  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.181
(c) Monitoring and evaluation         0.000  0.108  0.010  0.011  0.011  0.011   0.152
Subtotal       0.754  3.562  1.611  1.175  0.903  0.025   8.030
Government
IV. Instionl  Capacity Building
(d) Staff salaries                    0.062  0.130  0.336  0.349  0.362  0.150   1.389
V. Initia and Test a Model
(c) Monitoring and evaluation         0.000  0.005  0.005  0.005  0.005  0.005   0.025
Subtotal       0.062  0.134  0.341  0.354  0.367  0.156   1.414
Other Sources
U. Distribute Instructoal Matals
(a) Distribution and reception equipment    0.000  0.000  0.091  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.091
(b) Vehicles for video-on-wheels      0.000  0.000  0.127  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.127
(c) Local operating cost              0.000  0.000  0.008  0.013  0.013  0.009   0.043
III. Provide Reinforcement of the Materials
(b) Training wseions                  0.000  0.000  0.026  0.009  0.005  0.005   0.045
V. Initi  and Test a Moddl
(c) Monitoring and evaluation         0.000  0.000  0.160  0.009  0.009  0.009   0.187
Subtota        0.000  0.000  0.413  0.030  0.027  0.023   0.493
Duties and Taxes                      0.000  0.186  0.107  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.293
Total Projet Costa                    0.816  3.882  2.472  1.559  1.297  0.203  10.230
Source   World Bank staff coemates
Assumptions    See pagec 7 & 8 of this annex



- 34 -
ANNEX 3.9
Page 4 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY LOCAL AND FOREIGN EXPENDITURES
(US$ nimilo)
Source of, Flaaanc'                      Locu.                            ____ _ . ..-.
by projectCmoetAn.%TtlI d7I~                                              .. t....tA 
IDA
1. Produce and Acquire Instrucon  Materia
(a) Production of pro-school programs     0.319    7.7%       0.330    5.7%       0.649    6.5%
(b) Production of social meauges          0.205    5.0%       0.212    3.7%       0.417    4.2%
(c) Acquisition of video programs         0.033    0.8%       0.138    2.4%       0.171    1.7%
(d) Production of video packages          0.963   23.3%       0.524    9.0%       1.487   15.0%
H. Distribute Instuctona Materis
(a) Distribution and reception equipment  0.006    0.1%       0.025    0.4%       0.031    0.3%
(b) Vehicles for video-on-wheels         0.004    0.1%        0.186    3.2%       0.190    1.9%
(c) Local operating costs                 0.040    1.0%       0.000    0.0%       0.040    0.4%
II. Provide Rcinforcemnot of the Materials
(a) Production costs of traiaing progams  0.009    0.2%       0.006    0.1%       0.016    0.2%
(b) Training sessions                     0.000    0.0%       0.000    0.0%       0.000    0.0%
IV. Institutional Capacity Building
(a) Studio construction and fixtures     0.445   10.8%        1.606   27.6%       2.051   20.6%
(b) Production equipment                  0.067    1.6%       1.328   22.9%       1.395   14.0%
(c) Staff training                        0.000    0.0%       0.585   10.1%       0.585    5.9%
(d) Staff salaries                        0.000    0.0%       0.000    0.0%       0.000    0.0%
(e) Consultants                           0.288    7.0%       0.330    5.7%       0.618    6.2%
V. Initiate and Test a Model
(a) Management                           0.048    1.2%       0.000    0.0%        0.048    0.5%
(b) Research                             0.089    2.2%       0.092    1.6%        0.181    1.8%
(c) Monitoring and evaluation             0.054    1.3%       0.098    1.7%       0.152    1.5%
Subtotal                      2.570   62.3%       5.460   94.0%       8.030   80.8%
Government
IV. Institutional Capecity Building
(d) Staff salaries                        1.389   33.7%      0.000    0.0%        1.389   14.0%
V. Initiate and Test a Model
(c) Monitoring and evaluation            0.025    0.6%       0.000    0.0%        0.025    0.3%
Subtotal                      1.414   34.3%       0.000    0.0%       1.414   14.2%
Other Sources
H. Distribute 1Isructioal Mataials
(a) Distribution and reception equipment  0.018    0.4%      0.074    1.3%       0.091    0.9%
(b) Vehicles for video-on-wheels         0.002    0.1%       0.124    2.1%       0.127    1.3%
(c) Local operating cost                 0.043    1.0%       0.000    0.0%       0.043    0.4%
M. Provide Reinforcement of the Material
(b) Training sessions                    0.045    1.1%       0.000    0.0%        0.045    0.5%
V. Initiate and Test a Model
(c) Monitoring and evaluation            0.035    0.8%       0.152    2.6%       0.187    1.9%
Subtotal                      0.143    3.5%       0.350    6.0%       0.493    S 0%
Total Cost, excluding dutie and taxe     4.127  100.0%       5.810  100.0%        9.937  l021i%
Duties and Taxes                         0.293               0.000               0.293
Total Project Cost                       4.420               5.810              .10 23
Source   World Bank staff estimates
Assumptions   See pages 7 & 8 of this annex
/a As percentage of total costs excluding duties and taxes



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES, BY LOCAL/FOREIGN EXPENDITURES AND YEAR
(USS mHllon)
1. Poduc d AaqAo*" hoaod  M_n
(a)  ProducIn of preo-school programe       so.   s24   0.400  s.ooa  s.aga  s.ass  AeNo  s.ass  so.oo  0.sra  se.a ao      s  s.tao   o     Ba o"s  o.10  0.o00 e0.1e   o.ees  a.eso  e.ase
(b)  Production of soca megcs sage..e.    a                0e. 3 .2  sea.  e.0e0  o.00  0.0a  Oem    s0o.w   s.o.s  s.o.s  o.33  *.s.   s.o.s0 .33  s.aee  s.eo0  s.eee  e.eee  em.ee   O,0
(c)  Acquisilon of vido programs            0.027   0.10   0.136  s.eas  e.ooo  sea.s   .0es6  e.e22  0.027  0.011  0.043  0.564  0.01  0.043  0.s64  0.000  0.000  0.000  e.eee  e.eee  o.oeo
(d)  Ptoducton of video Packages            O.M                  e.eee 1s   ge s.ooe  o.0e   e.ooo  e.o0  o0.2s  s.1a1  0.0n  0.2s   e.a01  stt  0..452  s.a01  0.161  0.462  e.moe  eeees  s.0e
Subtol                   lies   sea   2-116  0.000  0.000  0.    se ooo   0 07o  0.113  0 27e  o   a2  0.613  e4n   0.360  o.a   s.0ei 4  o20  osa   seeso  eseee  e
N. D01b  Instuconal MaUbda
(a)  Diauibution and recopon equipmen    o.01o   o.on   0.007  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.010  0.07o   0.0O7  0.000     0.000 e    .o00 0.000 0.eo   0.00  0.000  GAN   L.0
(b)  V    dhlc    r v1deo-on-ee             0.006   0.246  e0260  s.      a    s 0.000 se.eeeo.eees 0.eoe   ee oo.   o.a2   0250  o.eoe  o.eoo 0 .000  0 .000  0 .000 eeA    s.eoe  sass  e.ese
(c)  Loca op-eating coa                     .o    a.ese  0.ee4  e.eee  0.m   e.eoe  s.eee  s.es   s.eas  0.013  0.000  0.013  0.01g  o.eoe  0.013  0.te  o.eee  0.010  0.015  OA=0  0.013
Subtotal                amu   02   0.411  ame  o.0   goes  0.0   sea  sees  0.037  0.32   0.300  0.018  0.000  0.01,  0.018  eeee  0.05                     _eee  0.013
Ill. Pr-Ade Pal      nnof Vo  Madljg
(a)  Productkon come of trh ing progarse   o.oe   o.eoa6  0.0is  s.eas  o.moe  s.eee  GANe  o.oe  o.eo  s.eas  s.as  0aoj8  o.M ee      m   GeN  0.m se      m oe  o.   o.eee  o.ee omem
(b)  Training sessions                      eme   seese   s..o   o.ees  e.eoo  e.m e   .m00  s.ooe  e.eoe  0.e21  e.oo   0.021  s.a07  se.ese eas   0.s4  e.m0   se  0.00 4  o.eoe  .o004
Subtotl                 s.o04    s ON   o.e  oe      o soe  e      see  e    eO O   see  e e2 o  oeg  e eM4  0 007   . eee e 007  e 004  o      O4   ONe  e        LI e  _ O
IV.  _iatlhio   Capety Bullbeg
(a)  Studio                                 e.nductlan   fixture  0.37s   1.321   1.7es  0.070  saa   ea4o 0   0.5   1.10   a .0s  01a.2 o.17e  e.m   eess.000                 6. eAe   OA"   MOOS  LAo  GM*  e.000
(b)  Prductn  equipment                     G."s?   1OS   1.146  e.mee  e.mee  CNoe  a.67  1OG   1.145  s.eee  eo   seas  e.m   em ee  ooe  e.mesemea 0.000 0.000 eee          GAN ee  e0
(c)  StafftlainIng                          o.m    OA.      o o.eA"    .m   0244  0.44   .mo.eee  e2    0.244  eA.ee  eeme  e.mee  s.m   e   eAees  GAN  gA.   Ioas s0ees  aOs   e.e
(d)  Sta  a l                               1.10e  ias 0g.  s.ese  s.as   e.mee  se.e6  0.110  s.m0  0.110  0.276  oAeg  o.m70 0.275 .    0.7e  se     7   s.0Ae  om    0.110  G"0  0.11
(a)  Consulta n.2t0   go   a.m0  s.m0  e.m00  e0.m   s.sn  0.021   OA"  0.132  0.307  0.3e  0et01   e2  o.0   sees  *.mee  e.mee  g.mee  e.0010  6MG
Subto6                   1.770   3157   4.ON  0 161   o5      m   0.40e      2.3S an  0 .442  0e30  0.701  5 251  e.m e    .        g    0 2a    e      e  ee  0110
V. hsds cnd Tea a Moda
(a)  Manageme                                .03    g.mee    .    0.002  s.mee  0.002  o.me  e.mee  o.eu   .010  g.m   0.010  sas   Oeeee  eao   am    g.eee  om    .e   em   seJ4
(b)  Fearch                                 0.075   0.078   0.1tae  0.015  e.a1i  0.0m0  0.030  g.0ee  0.0e0 o .m   0.m e .m80  o.mee  a.mee  s.m   GAN   gAg   e.moe  s.om   e.m00  s.m
(c)  Monitoing and  bvaon                    .00   0.200  Os.e  o.moe  e.mee  e.me  0.013  0.aee   0.oe3  0.010  0.120  0.131  Os01  g.m o    .e01 e.eee   g.m0  0.010 eoiOe 0 Oes  0.010
Subtoal                 .203   0276   0.478  0.017  0.016  e.e0s2   .m s0 e         o          e 0.160  0.    010  0.206  .027  eeoo   0227  o7  eeee  ee27  g.m 023    
Tatal ea" Cod                       3307  4.67    7.NO  5 17    a 530 7.01t  sees  2.4e2  3.04e  0se   1I    1.0U7  0e2   0.362 tn1   0.72   6260  2_M  0o 10 e.m  eee (I) t
Physia Contlngencls                 0.331   0.4    0.7s6  0.01   0.06a  e.070  0o0s  0.2.a   0.30   0.    sio 0.10e.eeo0 s.2   .m   02    .073   .m   8.m    .s  o.me  so .n X
Price ConrengencIes                 s.409   0.m    1.162   .m0   em3  0.04   0.046  0.2P 0.343  MIN  0.17e 027    i.   @.0se  .               o   e.eee g.m   ga4  e.o   g.m0    es        o 
Duee ad taxe                        0s3o  e.m00  o0so  s.m o .eee   o   .m0  oase  0.m       .t.6e  0.107  o.mee  0.107  CAN e.oom 0.000 eeeo.me   .m0  s.mee  e.eem  e.mee  g.m           col
Tod Coat                            4.420   sets  1o0.   0.201  0.615  0.616  0.877  *.0me  3.2  1.130  t.333  ILZI  s.4  osta  tue   gs.            32  1287  ee2    LE   gM



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES, BY LOCAL/FOREIGN EXPENDITURES AND YEAR
(million Naira)
Pro~~so~ ComponpiW          Local,"    Forq)n   p9 LooloUp   Forsow  V.6w   ton"t FcIp: 'towa  LAp   Pcre"  Toalm  Laaqi~ focrlgit Tats  Looq   Od.tq    pa   wU 
1.  Produc oid  bAcqr bh        tonw M       a
(a)  Producin of proe-chool programs          4.875   4.e7n   6.750  0.00  0.000  0e000  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.976  0.976  1.660  1.660  1.960  3.900  1.960  1.960   o90o  0.000  0.000  0.000
(b)  ProducUon of oda] moagce                 3.260   3.260   6.600  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.60  0.060   1.300  1.300  1.300  2.600  1.300  1.300  2.z00   0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(c)  Acquli tion o videoprograms              0.626   2.112   2.041  0.000  0.000  0000  0.106  0.422  0.626  0.211  0.48  1.066  0.211  0.646  1.064  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(d)  Prodcwtkin of vido pacages              14.733   7.76r  22.41  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.301   0.391  2.947  1.473  4.420   .M6  2z947  6.640  L6    2.947  e.640  0.000  0.000  0.000
Subtota                 23.366  17.s66  41.362  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.766  1.464   Z219  6.433  4.93 10.026  0.366  7.042 16.3se  7.643  4.607 12.740  0.000  0.000  0.000
11. DisribueA hiustucnoni Mmiwals
(a)  Dtribution and reeption oquipment  o0.s    i.sis   i.97   .ooo  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.379  1.516  1.097  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(b)  Vehicles fr video-on-whoele              0.096   4.792   4.60   0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.069  4.792  4.600  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(c)  Local operating cas                      1.250   0.000   1.260  o.o000  0.000  0 .O   0.000  0.000   0.000  0.260  0.000  0.260  0.376  0.000  0.376  0.376  0.000  0.376  0.250  0.000  0.20              I
Subtota                   1.727   6.310   8.037  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.72   6.310  7.037  0.376  0.000  0.376  0.376  0.000  0.376  0.260  0.000  0.260             0o
l11. Provide RPAnbreme       4dt ofthe Mabmi al
(a)  Production cost ootralning progams    0.160   0.100   0.260  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.160  0.100  0.260  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000                  I
(b)  Training sessions                        0.700   0.000   0.700  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.OoO   0.000  0.420  0.000  0.420  0.140  0.000  0.140  0.070  0.000  0.070  0.070  0.000  0.070
Subtod                    0.660   0.100   0.960 0o000 0o000 0o000 0o000 0o000 0o000  0.670  0.100 O.670  0 140  oo0u0  0                7140  007   0.000  0.070  0.070  0.000  0.070
IV. hndtutional Capacity Building
(a)  Studio con truction and fixtures         7.416  25.637  33.262  1.443  5.167  6.660  6.191 16.06  23276  0.742  2.S64  32b6  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(b)  Production equipment                     1.120  21.276  22.306  0.000  0o000  0.000  1.120 21.276  22.306  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0o000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(c)  Staff training                           0.000   9.646   9.646  0.000  4.773  4.773  0.000  4.773   4.773  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(d)  Staff salaifs                           21.61b   0.000  21.616  1.076  0.000  1.076  2.162  0.000   2.162  6.379  0.000  6.379  6.379  0.000  6.379  6.379  0.000  6.379  2.162  0.000  2.162
(e)  Consultants                              4.WO    6.066  9.780  0.667  0.000  0.687  1.271  0.411   1.662  2.623  4.049  6.672  0.313  0.626  0.939  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
Subtotal                34.746   1.744  90.46s  3.14e  9.940 13.066  9.733 44.64   54.279   .644  6.633 16.276  6.62  o.Z    6.316  6.379  0.000  6.379  2.162  0.000  2.162
V.  kitiat m*d Tet a Model
(a)  Magement                                 0.760   0.000   0.760  0.036  0.000  0.036  0.160  0.000   0.160  0.1I   0.000  0.138  0.160  0.000  0.160  0.160  0.000  0.160  0.07o   0.000  0.076
(b)  Research                                 1.467   1.447   2.934  0e293  0.293  0.667  0.67  0.667   1.174  O.667  0.667  1.174  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
(c)  Monitoting and evaluation                1.760   3.912   6.672  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.246  1.666   1.610  0.379  2.347  2.n6  0.379  0.000  0.379  0.379  0.000  0.379  0.379  0.000  0.379
Subtotal                  3.977   6.379   0.36e  0.331  0.293  oQ024  0.692  2162   3.134  1.163  2.934  4.067  0.62   0.000  0.629  0.62   0.000  0.629  0.464  0.000  0.464          1 
Total BassCost                      54.867  91.62i 16.216  3.477 10.233 13.710 11.471 46.161  6s.632 16.627 20.670 37.097 10.090  7.666 23.7u8 14.196  4.697 19.093  2.926  0.000  2.026           (D  M'1
Physical Contingencies               6.4a    9.163  16.62=  0.348  1.023  1.371  1.147  4.810   6.03  1.663  2.067  3710  1.809  0.767  2.379  1.420  0.490  1.909  0.z93  0.000  0.293
Price Contingencies                 66.234  60.826 123.069  1.291  4.363  6.644  6.790 31.606  3a.29s  12679 170066 29.46 16.241  7.641 23.062 16.363  6.067 22.440   .960  0.000  3.560           
Duties and taxOe                     8.413   0.000   6.413  0.000  0.000  0.000  6.233  0.000   6.233  3.160  0.000  3.160  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000          033
Total Coat                         136.802 167.606 303.308  6.116 16.810 20.726 24.641 u4.486 100.126 33.930 39.603  73.632 32.941 16.276 49.216 31.966 11.443 43.442  7.166  0.000  7.166



- 87 -
ANNEX  3.9
Page 7 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN ESTIMATING PROJECT COSTS
1. Produce and Acquire Instructioal Materials
(a) Production of prc-school programs
Description/Quantity         130 20-minute episodes produced by NTA
Avcrage unit cot             75,000 awra per episode
Local/for igncos ratbo       50/50
Cost ouday schedule          1995:20%; 1996:40%; 1997:40%
Share of financing           IDA: 100%
(b) Production of social messages
D-scription/Quantity         130 20-minute episodes produced by various entit
Average unit cost            50,000   ira per episode
Local/foreign cost ratio     50/50
Cost outlay schedule         1994:20%; 1995:40%; 1996:40%
Share of financing           IDA: 100%
(c) Acquisition of video Programs
Description/Quantity         90 20-minute or half-hour episodes acquired locally or abroad
Average unit cost            US$1,500 per episode
Local/foreign cost ratio     20/80
Cost ouday schedule          1994:20%; 1995:40%; 1996:40%
Share of financing           IDA: 100%
(d) Production of video packages
Description/Quantity         1,000 packages produced for each of 130 episodes of pro-school programs
Average unit cost            170 naira per package; US$20,000 for one st of reprographie mahiinery
Loca/foreign costs ratio     66/34
Cost outlay schodule         machinery procurod ia 1994
packages produced in 1995 (20%). 1996 (40%) and 1997 (40%)
Share offnancing             IDA: 100%
II. Distrbute instructional materials
(a) Distribution/reception equipment
Description/Quantity        for 5 video-on-whoels (VoWs); 10 local viewing centers (LVCs);
20 private centers (PVCs)
Average unit cost            USS4,800 for VoWs; USS3,300 for LVCs; US$2,000 for PVCs
Local/foreign costs ratio    20/80
Cost ouday srhedule          1995: 100%
Share of fnancing            IDA funances equipment for 3 VoWs and 3 LVCr;
Other financing for 2 VoWsr 7 LVCs and 20 PVCs
(b) Vehicles for video-on-wheels
DescrIpion/ Quantity         5 four-wheel drive vehicles
Avcrage unit cost            USS50,000
Local/forcign costs ratio    2/98
Cost outlay scbodule         1995: 100%
Sbare of financing           IDA finances purchase of 3 vehicles; other financing for 2 vehicles
(c)  Local operating costs
Description/Quantity         staffing, petrol and maintenance cots for VoWs and LVCs
Average unit cost            150,000 naira for VoWs; 50,000 naira for LVCs
Local/foreign costs rado     100/0
Cost ouday srheodule         1995: 20%; 1996: 30%; 1997: 30%; 1998: 20%
Share offnacing              IDA finances coats for 3 VoWs and 3 LVCs;
Other financing for 2 VoWr and 7 LVCs
m. Provide Reinforcement of the Matersl
(a)  Production costs of training programs
Descriptin/Quantity          5 video programs produced by NTA
Average unit cost            50,000 naira per program
Local/foreign costs ratio    60/40
Cost ouday schodule          1995: 100%
Share of financing           IDA: 100%
(b) Training sessions
DescriptionIQuantity        training for 350 people at LVCs and PVCs
Averagc unit cost            2,000 naira per person
Local/foreign costs ratio    100/0
Cost outlay scbodule         1995: 60%; 1996: 20%; 1997: 10%; 1998: 10%
Sharc offinancing            AD fmanced by other parallel financing



- 88 -
ANNEX 3.9
Page 8 of 8
IV. I _aI Capecity Buildid
(a) Studio construction and fixures
D-cription/Quantity         includes civil works. specialized fixtures, fitting and fLnhLng
Tol bas coat                US$1.7 milliro
Localfore gn  rUdo           22/1n
Coat outlay scedule          1993: 20%; 1994: 70%; 1995: 10%
Shar of fiwkgg              IDMA  100%
(b) Production eautiment
De-c kip /Quantit            includes supply, insallatio and minae of equipgmet
Totl bae oost               US$1.145 million (se Annex 3.3)
Local/foreig  ormatio        5/95
Coat outlay schedule        1994: 100%
Share of fnanciq'           IDA: 100%
(c) Staff trainina
D    cripton/Quantity        See Annex 3.4, par. 4
Tot base coAt               USs4",000
Lo/foreig c    redo          0/100
Cost ouday schedule          1993: 50%; 1994: 50%
Shbr of fancig              IDA  100%
(d) Staff slaries
Description/Quanti          total personnel costs of producti  nd adm tntrve staff for the projet
Total bae cot              USSI.I million equivalent over projec life (rec Annex 3.4, pan. 1-3)
Local/foreign coas rto       100/0
Coat ouday schedule          1993: 5%; 1994: 10%; 1995-1997: 25% each year; 1998: 10%
Share of financing          NTA: 100%
(a) Consultants
Decrdiptio/kQuantty          54 months of consulan time (See Annex 3.4, pam. 7-8)
I projet coordinaor: 18-moth aignment; 2 trip
I producer/director: 6-month assignet; 1 trip
i technical director: 6- nth assignment; I trip
I procuremcnt advisor: 24-month assignment
TotAl bae coot              US$500,000 equivalent
Local/foregon oo ratio      48/52
Cost oulay schedule          1993: 6 months procuremet consultant
1994: 14 monaths total; 1995: 30 months total; 1996: 4 months total
Shame  f financing           DA: 100%
V. late and Test a Model
(a) Manafement
Decription/Quantity         administrative comb of mangemnt commnittee for the project
Total bae cost              750,000 naira over project life
Local/foreign cab rato       100/0
Cost outay schedule          1993: 5%; 1994: 20%; 1995: 25%; 1996: 20%; 1997: 20%; 1998: 10%
Sham of fiancing            IDA: 100%
(b) R!amh
DecIpdton/Qay               Three studies
Total base coat             USS150,000 equivalent
Local/forei  cots ntio      50/50
Cat ouday wchedule           1993: 20%; 1994: 40%; 1995: 40%
Share of financing          MDA. 100%
(c) Monitoring and evaluation
Descriptica/Quantity        procurement of 5 vehicles; 60 months local consultan; and operaig comm
Averag unit c               vehices  USS40,000
Total base                  5 vehiles for US$200,000; consuant costs USS40,000 equivalent;
operating costs USS,0000 over project life
Local/foreign costs rato    30/70
Cot ouday schedule          2 vehicle procured in 1994; 3 vehcle in 1995
Consultwt aignmet  from 1994-98
Operating coat apportioned for 22 vehIcleeas (2 in 1994; S eah in 1995-98)
Sare of financig            IDA finances purchas a  operaing coat of 2 vehicles,
and 50% of consultant coats
NTA finances 50% of consultant co
Other parallel financing for purchae nd operating coats of 3 vehicle.
a&: Prke cnigenci have b   darived frow tbe fUowig anual projcted ratof inado:
foeign 2.J% In 1992, 3.9S iA 1993 and 1994,  d 3.S% in 1995 thg  199; sad
local 42% in 1992, 25% in 1993, 15S In 1994 and 10S theresftar.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COIIUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Anrsl wid Kid-term Project Targets
FIRST YEAR TARGETS                 SECOND YEAR TARGETS                THIRD YEAR TARGETS                  FOURTH YEAR TARGETS                FIFTH YEAR TARGETS
PROJECT MID-TERM
Studio constructed.
Production staff
appointed.
Equipmnt received and
InstaLled.
Distribution mid reception                                            Introduction of a budget            Introduction of a budget
equipment purchased.                                                  line for equipment depreciation. Line for spares/maintenance.
Graphic artists trainad.
Production staff trained.                                             Technical assistance phased out.
Overseas study tours               Training videos for                Local staff assume complete
completed.                         facilitators and                   responsibility for produiction,
caregivers produced.               distribution, etc.
Key persomeL appointed.            Implementing groups,
faciLitators and                                                                                                                              I
caregivers initial
training completed.                                                                                                                           q
Steering group established.        Monitoring and evaluation
instruments developed
and piloted.
Working co_ittee estabLished.
Target Locations and               First two pilot videos
populations identified.            developed and produced.
Decisions made on VOW/LVC          Pilot videos evaluated.
mechanisms for each site.
Programs scripted.                 Transmission and distribution
system developed.
Organizations invited to           Transmission begins.               FulL production of first            52 additional episodes             52 additional episodes
produce social message                                                26 episodes,                       produced,                           produced.
videos.  (2 briefing sessions)
First batch of bought-in
videos ordered.
One hour/week of instructionaL   Two hours/week of instructionaL  Three hours/week instructional
and deveLopmentaL network          and developmental network          and deveLopmental network          z
programming introduced.            programming introduced.            programming introduced.
First videos distributed.          Second batch added to              Third batch added to               4-
distribution.                      distribution,                      distribution.
First formative evaLuation.        Second formative evaluation        Suiawtive evaluation.
Research studies completed.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
ImPlementation Schedule
---1992---        ---1993---         ---1994---        ---1995---         ---11996---        ---1997---        ---19R--
Phase/Component             Institution       1  2  3  4         1  2  3  4         1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4         1  2  3  4         1  2  3  4        1  2   3
Action Required             Responsible      JFMAIJJASONO    JFMAIJJASOND        JFKAMJJASOND       JFMAMJJASOND    JFKAMJJASOND       JFMAMJJASOND       JFMAMJJASOND
APPRAISAL
World Bank sends            UB/NTA/FMI             xx
appraisal mission
to Nigeria
World Bank prepares         US                        xx
project documents
and sends them to
govt. for review
prior to negotiations
Govt. completes pre-        NTA/FMI                    x
negotiation actions
NEGOTIATIONS
Govt. and US                FMED/FMI/NTA/                 x
negotiation teams           Us
meet in Nigeria
World Bank prepares         US                            x      x
final project
documents
APPROVAL
Govt. (C. of Ministers)  FMI/FMFED                               x
& World Bank (Board)        N Justice
approve project;            COh/US
agreements signed
EFFECTIVENESS
Govt. compLetes pre-        NTA/FMI/                                 x
effectiveness actions;   FMFED/UB
World Bank declares
project effective;                                                     x
disbursement begins                                                          x
SUPERVISION
World Bank missions         UB                                         x    x       x    x   x          x   x   x         x   x   x         x    x   x          x   x
to review project                                                                                                                                                              r 
implementation                                                                                                                                                                 >
Semi-annual reviews         NTA(SC)/                                                x         x         x        x        x        x        x         x         x    x         f
Mid-term review             NTA(SC)/
US                                                                 x
Project Completion          UB                                                                                                                                   x
Report (PCR)



---1992---       ---1993---       ---1994---        ---1995 ---      ---1996---        ---1997---
Phase/Comonent            Institution       1 2  3  4        1  2  3  4       1 2  3  4         1  2  3  4       1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3
Action Required          Responsible    JFMAMJJASOND       JFMAMJJASOND    JFMAMJJASOND      JFMAMJJASOND      JFMAMJJASOND    JFMAMJJASOND      JFMAMJJASOND
1.      PRODUCE AND ACQUIRE INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
Produce piLot videos      NTA                                                                     xxx
Evaluate pilot videos    NTA                                                                        xxx
snd improve
Produce initial 26        NTA                                                                       xxxxx        xxxxx
instructional videos
with printed support
materials
Produce next 52           NTA                                                                                       xxxxxxx    xxxxx
instructional videos
with printed support
mterials
Produce next 52           NTA                                                                                                       xxxxxxx          xxxxx
instructional videos
with printed support
materials
Buy-in from overseas      NTA                                                    xxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxx        xxxxxxx
Purchase locally          ITA                                        xxx     xxxxx
Produce social messages  NTA                                         xxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx
OQZ
0.
in



--- 1992---     ---1993---       ---1994 ---      -- 1995 ---     --- 1996 ---     --- 1997 ---     --- 1998---
Phase/Cowponent          Institution      1 2 3 4          1 2 3 4         1 2 3 4          1 2 3 4         1 2 3 4          1 2 3  4         1  2  3
Action Required          Responsibte    JFMAJJASOND      JFAMAJJASOND   J FMAMJJASONJD    JFMAMJJASOND    JFMANJJASOND   JFMAJJASOND      JFKMAJJASOND
2.      DISTRIBUTE INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
Purchase equipment      NITA                                      x           x
OMEP/MPUA                                            x
Introduce one hour/week  NTA                                                                     x
instructional tv.
Network tranmission      NTA                                                                   xxxxxx
of first 26 videos
Introduce 2 hours/week   ITA                                                                                      x
instructional tv.
Network transmission    NITA                                                                                      xxxxxx    xxxx
52 new videos + 26
Introduce 3 hours/week   NTA                                                                                                     x
instructional tv
Network transmission     NTA                                                                                                      xxxxxxx    xxx
52 new videos + 78
Introduce 4 hours/week   NTA                                                                                                                         x
instructional tv.
VOW once a week          NTA/0C4EP/                                                             xxxxxx                                                            -0
for c i x months        JN4A                                                                                                                                      N
VOW once a week          NTA/OHEP/                                                                               xxxx          xxxxxx
for twelve months       JNA
VOIW twice weekly        NTAICOEP/                                                                                                xxxxx         xxxxx
for twelve mnths        JWA
VOa thrice weekly        NTA/ONEP/                                                                                                              xxxxx
for twelve months       JMA
Set up LVCs              NTA/ONEP/NICWS/                                           x    x
JPA/ IWS
26 videos shon           NTA/ONEP/NCWS/                                                       xxxxxxx
at LVCs                  NPWA/JN1AIUS
78 videos shown          NTA/VJEP/INChIS/                                                                       xxxxxxxxxx
at LVCs                  NPUAJNA/IUS
130 videos shown         NTA/ONEP/NCWS/                                                                                         xxxxxxxxxx
at LVCs                   PIA/JA/IUSWS
Video and print          ITA                                                                  xxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxxxx                            xxxxx
_terflas eviLabLe                                                                                                                                              x
from licensed retailers                                                                                                                                       -PI
0.



BsfS3_=int= _           =f- SGSS=G-ln=sr=fltCt=~=r_           ===sfl=====zfl========   =====s=======  =s====ssssss
---1992---       ---1993---        ---1994---        ---1995---        --- 1996---      ---1997-----
Phase/Component            Institution      1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4       1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3
Act ion Required          Responsible    JFMANJJASOND        JFMAIJJASOND    JFMAMJJASOND      JFMAJJJASOND      JFMAMJJASOND    JFPMJJASOND       JFMAMJJASOND
3.      PROVIDE REINFORCEMENT OF MATERIALS
Produce training          NTA/ONEP/                                                              xxx
mterfaLs                  MERDC/UNICEF
First training            NERDC/UNICEF/                                                             x
courses                   OMEP/MPWA
Second training           MERDC/UWICEF/                                                                  x
course                    ONEP/NPUA
Regular sminars           NERDCAUNICEF/                                                                           x         x            x            x
OHEP/NPWA
Reinforcient wnd          NERDC/UlICEF/                                                                                  KX-X      XXXXXX JUUCX      xxxxx
training visits           OlEP/NPWA/NCWS/
J1NA/IWS
4.       4ILD INSTITUTIOhAL CAPACITY
Establigh educationsl
ttelvision unit:
Architectural design,    NTA                                   x
coeting and site survey
Award building contract  hTA                                          x
Construction                                                          xxx    xxxxxxxx
Amard eqJpl  nt contract NTA                                         x
Ree ive wid instail .      TA                                                         xxxx
euipount
Appoint key consultants  ETA                                         x
AppoInt production        NTA                                        x
staff
Initial trsinino:
Cowputer graphics         ETA                                                xxx
and other staff
Study tours               NTA                                         xxxx
FMI
On-the-job                NTA                                                                   xxx
0 



---1992---       ---11993---        ---1994---        ---1995.---      ---11996---       ---11997---       ---1998---
Phase/Component            Institution       1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3
Action Required            Responsible      JFMAMJJASOND      JFMAMJJASOND    JFMAMJJASOND       JFMAMJJASOND     JFMAMJJASOND    JFMAMJJASOND       JFKANJJASOND
5.       INITIATE AND TEST A MODEL
Identify members of        NTA                                      x
Steering Group and
Working Committee
Appoint Steering           NTA                                      x
Group and Working
Committee
Preproduction research   NTA                                           xxx    xxxxxxxx
Video preproduction        NTA                                                                       xxx
Staff training             NTA                                                                           xxx
Production                 NTA                                                                            xx     xxxxxxxxxxxx       xxxxxxxxxxxx
Distribution               NTA/OMEP/NCWS/                                                                 xx     xxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxx
NPWA/JMA/IWS
Reinforcement              NERDC/OMEP/NPWA                                                               xx      xxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxx
Monitoring                 NTA/Coordinators                                                              xx      xxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxx
Evatuation                 FMI/Consultants                                                                                   x                x              x
Research                   FMI/NTA                                  xxxxxx      xxxxxx
a. 
Lfl



- 95 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
I1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities. The staff input in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.
(estimated for this project to require six staff weeks yearly).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
a.    Progress Reports are to be submitted at the end of March and September each year by
the Nigerian Television Authority.
b.    Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the Steering Group to
be established under the project. Review meetings with the participation of the various
project agencies will normally be held in mid-January and mid-September each year. A
mid-term project review will be held in July 1996. The meetings will be chaired by the
Director General of NTA.
C.    The Program Directorate of the Nigerian Television Authority will be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions and for providing information
required by the mission. Missions will normally be accompanied by an officer from the
NTA, the Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant, and a representative of the preschool
organizations.
d.    Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be chaired by the NTA Director of
Programs who will also chair wrap-up meetings.



- 96 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 3
Bank Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                        Expected Skill       Staff Input
(month/year)  Activity                         Requirements        (staff-weeks)
7/93         Supervision Mission        Financial analyst                 6.0
(Project Launch Workshop)   Disbursement specialist
Procurement specialist
Educator
Education television
Monitoring & evaluation
11/93        Supervision Mission        Educator                          2.0
Review procurement,        Procurement specialist
project administrative
training & research
arrangements
3/94         Supervision Mission        Architect                         2.0
Review construction        Educator
7/94         Review studio construction,   Education television           6.0
equipment & installation,  Educator
training video objectives  Monitoring & evaluation
Architect
11/94        Supervision Mission        Educator                          3.0
Review production and      Education television
acquisitions, preschool
VOW & LVC provision and
arrangements for training,
3/95         Review training videos,    Educator                          3.0
training programs, research,  Education television
progress of pilot productions  Monitoring & evaluation
7/95         Supervision mission to     Education television              3.0
review pilot results -     Educator
formative evaluation       Monitoring and evaluation
11/95        Supervision mission to     Educator                          3.0
review first distribution  Training specialist
Communication specialist



- 97 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 3
3/96         Supervision mission to    Educator                          5.0
review video production,  Monitoring and evaluation
distribution, reinforcement   Education television
& monitoring              Communication specialist
Training specialist
7/96         Mid-term Project Review   Financial analyst                 7.0
Disbursement specialist
Procurement specialist
Educator
Education television
Monitoring & evaluation
Administration & management
specialist
11/96        Supervision mission       Educator                          4.0
Formative evaluatiom      Monitoring and evaluation
3/97         Supervision mission       Educator                          4.0
Education television
7/97         Supervision mission       Educator                          4.0
Formative evaluation      Monitoring and evaluation
11/97        Supervision mission       Educator                         2.0
3/98         Summative evaluation      Evaluation team                   6.0
7/98         Project Completion Report   Educator                        8.0
Evaluation specialist
Communication specialist
Administration & management
s-ecialist
Procurement specialist
Disbursement specialist
Financial analyst
Edacation television specialist



- 98 -
ANNEX 4.4
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION UNIT (ETU)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(in millioa of Nirs)
Projecte
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Government subvention                 1.9     9.4    13.7    13.9    15.9    31.1    31.3    32.3
ETU Internally generated revenue      0.0     0.0      0.0     4.6    10.6    25.2    29.7    31.1
Subtotal                       1.9     9.4    13.7    18.5    26.5    56.3    61.1    63.4
IDA Credit                           19.1   100.1    48.0    37.1    30.2       0.9      0.0      0.0
Other external financing              0.0     0.0    12.3      1.0      0.9     0.8      0.0      0.0
Subtotsl                      19.1   100.1    60.3    38.0    31.1        1.7     0.0      0.0
Total Sources of Funds               21.0   109.5    74.0    56.5    57.6    57.9    61.1    63.4
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Opeting Expe
Personnel moluments                1.6      3.6    10.0    11.0    12.1    12.6    13.1    13.6
Production costs                   0.0      3.2    19.4    34.1    29.1    29.1    31.8    33.6
Distribution/dissemination costs   0.0      0.0     1.2      1.1      1.0     0.8      0.7     0.7
Monitoring and evaluation          0.0      0.4     0.7      0.8     0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9
Administrative expenses            0.3      0.6     0.7      0.7     0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8
Maintenance                        0.0      0.0     0.0      6.9     6.9      6.9      6.9     6.9
Depreciation                       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     6.9      6.9      6.9     6.9
Subtotal                       1.9     7.8    32.1    54.5    57.6    57.9    61.1    63.4
Capital Expenditures
Studio construction and fixtures  10.1    40.5      6.4      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Production equipment               0.0    45.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Distribution/reception equipment   0.0      0.0     3.6      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Vehicles                           0.0      2.7    17.1      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Other                              9.0    13.3    14.7       2.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Subtotal                      19.1   101.7    41.9      2.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Applications of Funds         21.0   109.5    74.0    56.5    57.6    57.9    61.1    63.4
NET FLOW                                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



_ 99 -
ANNEX 4.4
Page 2 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION UNIT (ETU)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
ASSUMPrTONS
A. Sources o' Funds
1.  Government Subvention         Government subventions will support personnel emoluments, maintenance
and depreciation throughout the period, as weU as some production and
miselUaneous operating costs. ETU wiU bear an increasing share of
the costs of production and other operating expenses as its internaUy
generated revenues increase.
2.  ETU Internally generated       Mainly revenues from sales of video packages, estimated at fuU cost
revenue                    recovery with 10% mark-up to cover administrative costs.
3.  IDA Credit                    The Naira equivalent of the estimated amounts to be provided by the IDA
credit eacn year.
4.  Other external financing       Estimated financing from other external sources.
B. Applications of Funds
i.  Personnel emoluments          As estimated for the project in 1993-97, and increasing at 4% p.a. in
1998-2000.
2.  Production Costs              Includes the cost of preparing programs for transmission including
production and acquisition of video programs as weU as video packages.
Unit costs and quantities of production arc based on project cost
assumptions (Annex 3.9). Quantities from 1993-97 are as specified for
the project. Video programs production in 1998 wiUl be at about 50% of
the level in 1997, and in 1999-2000 at 10% above the level in 1998.
Acquisition of video programs will continue in 1998-2000 at 20% of the
level in 1996. Quantities of video packages produced in 1998-2000 wil
increase by 20%, 30% and 40% in each successive year above the level
in 1997.
3.  Distribution/dissemination costs  Includes operating costs for the video-on-wheels and viewing centers,
and the costs of training facilitators and care givers.
4.  Monitoring and evaluation      As estimated under the project for 1997-1998, and maintained at the
same level through 1999-2000.
5.  Administrative expenses        Includes management and office expenses including utilities.
6.  Maintenance                   Estimated at 10% of the costs of existing equipment from 1996.
7.  Depreciatin                   Estimated at 10% of the costs of existing equipment from 1997.
8.  Capital expenditures          As estimated under the project.



- 100 -
ANNEX 4.5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC UF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Procurement Timetable
I        ICB and LCB
Step
Category          Method
Draft              Bank    Invitation Receipt  Bid               Bank               Contact
Documents         Rev      to Bid   of Bids   Opening &          Rsv                Award
Evaluation
Works             ICB       5/93              6/93      7/93     10/93    10/93            11/93              11/93
Production
Equipment         ICB       5/93              6/93      1/94     4194     4/94               5/94               5/94
Furniture         LCB       5/93              6/93      3/94     5/94     5/94               6/94               6/94
Vehicles          LCB       5/93              6/93      1/94     3/94     3/94               4/94               4/94
Video progs       LCB       5/93              6/93      12/93    2/94    2/94                3/94               3/94
2.       Other
Category                             Method                               Dates of
Acquisition
Distribution
Reception
Equipment                            Local shopping                       1/95
Reprographic
Equipment                            Local shopping                       11/94
Video Production                     Local shopping                       6/95 to 6/98
Printed Material
Production                           Local shopping                       6/95 to 6/98
Training Video
Production                           Local shopping                       5/95 to 7/95
Video Program
Acquisition                          Direct buying                        6/94 to 7/96
Research                             Consultants (Three propotals)        10/93
Monitoring
& Evaluation                         Consultants (rhree proposals)        10/93
TA.                                  Consultants (Three proposals)        various dates
Overseas
Training                             Specific arrangemnents               1/94
Study Tour                           Specific arrangements                8/93
Admin. Coats                         Local procedures                     9/94 to 6/98



- 101 -
ANE!X 4.5
MASchmet 1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OP NIGERIA
D          ELOMlNT COMMUNICAO  PlLaW PtOEI
Crilem For Preau lificko
Evala ionoiw
*      Rating is done on a4-point wal  being wert 4 being highet.
A.              PRODUCER'S CAPACrIY
1.     Production Record                        Poor   Fair    Good   Vey Good
a)      Consistency in developing and           1       2       3       4
producing now progamme.
b)      Ability to producelong-                 1       2       3       4
rnudnn series.
)     /AtisticdTechnical qualty of productions.  1    2       3       4
2.      E.ciliia
a)      Availability of Infatructure            1       2       3       4
(i)     Studio                          1       2       3       4
(ii)    Post-production Unit            1       2       3       4
b)      Availability of Equipment
(i)     Production equi_me              1       2       3       4
(ii)    Post-production equipment       1       2       3       4
(iu)    Spocial effects equipmnt        1       2       3       4
c)      Stard nd Qualiy of
Infrstr.ctue  and Equipment             1       2       3       4
(i)     Studios                         1       2       3       4
(ii)    Post-production Unit            1       2       3       4
(iii)    Production equipment           1       2       3       4
(iv)    Post-production equipmet        1       2       3       4
(v)     Special effect equipment        1       2       3       4



- 102 -
ANNEX 4.5
Attachment 1
3.      Staff                                    None   Fair    Good   Very Good
a)      Availability of Trained Staff for:       1       2       3       4
(i)     Script writing                   1       2       3       4
(ii)    Directing                        1       2       3       4
(iii)    Costume and Make-up             1       2       3       4
(iv)    Camera operation                 1       2       3       4
(v)     Lighting                         1       2       3       4
(vi)    Editing                          1       2       3       4
(vii)    Graphics                        1       2       3       4
b)      Utilization of staff for:                None   Fair    Good   Very Good
(i)     Script Writing                   1       2       3       4
(ii)    Directing                        1       2       3       4
(iii)    Costume and make-up             1       2       3       4
(iv)    Camera operation                 1       2       3       4
(v)     Lighting                         1       2       3       4
(vi)    Editing                          1       2       3       4
(vii)    Graphics                        1       2       3       4
(viii)   Sound                           1       2       3       4
4.      Financial Resources                                      Range of Amount
a)      Operation Funds         Below N100,000  N 100,000 to 200,000     Above N200,000
b)      Sales Income            Below N200,000  N200,000 to 400,000      Above N 250,000
5.      Co-production Exverience
None   Fair    Good   Very Good
a)      Number of Co-productions                 1       2       3       4
b)      Type of Co-production
(i)     Documentary                      1       2       3       4
(ii)    Drama                            1      2        3       4
(iii)    Commercials                    1       2        3       4
c)      What role did producer play in co-production:
creative, financial, technical (just for information purpose)
B.      TECHNICAL OUALITY OF THE VIDEOS
1.      Message
Poor                    Very Clear
(i)     How clear is the message        1       2        3       4
(ii)    Relevance
(a)     to audience             1       2        3       4
(b)     to objective            1       2       3        4



- 103 -
ANNEX 4.5
Attachment 1
2.      Situation
Yes                     No
(i)     Are situations realistic?       4        3       2       1
1               2              3                 4
(ii)    What proportions of facts       less 25%         26- 50%         51-75%           76%+
are clear?
(iii)   What proportion of facts are accurate  1  2      3       4
76%     51-75%  26-50%  less 26%
(iv)    What proportion of essential     1        2       3        4
facts are omitted
3.      Camera Work                              Poor    Fair    Good   Very Good
(i)     Resolution                       1       2       3         4
(iO)    Composition                      1       2       3         4
(iii)    Creativity                      1       2       3         4
4.      Effects                                  Poor   Fair    Good   Very Good
Creativity and Imagination in            1       2       3         4
use of effects:
(i)     Visuals                          1       2       3         4
(ii)    Graphics                         1       2       3         4
(iii)   Music                            1       2       3         4
(iv)    Sound                            1       2       3         4
5.      Production/Ouality                       Poor    Fair    Good   Very Good
How good is the production               1       2       3          4
in terms of:
(i)     Technical quality                1       2       3          4
(ii)    Visual quality                   1       2       3          4
(iii)   Audio quality                    1       2       3          4
(iv)    Directing                        1       2       3          4
(v)     Design                           1       2       3          4
6.      Editing                                  Poor   Fair    Good   Very Good
How well is the programme edited         1       2       3          4
7.      Story line I Scrivt                      Poor   Fair    Good   Very Good
How good is the story-line and script    1       2       3          4
in terms of:
(i)     Clarity of idea
(a)     to audience:
(b)     to characters portrayed



- 104 -
AiNNEX 4.5
Anwohmat I
(he)    Approgwiaam.us                 1      2       3          4
(h;i)    Coatiuily
How suitabbe b is   ooXm               1      2       3         4
9.     Makuim                                 1       2       3         4
How suitabl is ad  Mak.up              1      2       3          4
10.    Castinu and AWS
(+)    Credibiity                     1      2       3         4
Chariusa                       1      2       3          4
Natual d    _posiios           1      2       3          4



- 105 -                               ANNEX 4.6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(USS million)
Cumulative Disbursement
IDA                                 Annual         Cumulative    as percentage of Total
Fiscal               Quarterly    Disbursement     Disbursement     This      Sector
Year     Quarter  Disbursement (Amount)  (%)        (Amount)      Project    Profile /a
FY94         I        0.377                          0.377          4.7%
II       0.377                           0.754         9.4%       0.0%
III       0.890                           1.644        20.5%
IV        0.890       2.535   31.6%       2.535        31.6%      3.0%
FY95         I        0.890                          3.425         42.7%
H        0.890                           4.316        53.7%       6.0%
III       0.403                           4.719        58.8%
IV        0.403       2.587   32.2%       5.121        63.8%      10.0%
FY96         I        0.403                          5.524         68.8%
II       0.403                           5.927        73.8%      18.0%
III       0.294                           6.221        77.5%
IV        0.294       1.393   17.3%       6.514        81.1%      26.0%
FY97         I        0.294                          6.808         84.8%
II       0.294                           7.102        88.4%      34.0%
III       0.226                           7.328        91.3%
IV        0.226       1.039   12.9%       7.554        94.1%     46.0%
FY98         1        0.226                          7.779         96.9%
II       0.226                           8.005        99.7%      54.0%
III       0.012                           8.018        99.8%
IV        0.012       0.477    5.9%       8.030       100.0%      62.0%
FY99        II                                                               74.0%
IV                                                               82.0%
FY2000      II                                                               90.0%
IV                                                               94.0%
FY2001      II                                                               98.0%
IV                                                               100.0%
/a Based on standard disbursement profile for education sector in Africa Region, as of June, 1992.



- 106 -                             ANNEX 5.1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Benefit and Sustainability
Benefits                                   Sustainabil ity
1.    Quantitative impact as the project      1.    A potentially replicable and
would produce a substantial                   expandable model tested.
collection of instructional support
material and reach potentially        2.      A management structure that
reach 4 million preschoolers                  coordinates the modes of
through network transmission, and             production, distribution, support
an additional 10,000 preschoolers,           and application is available.
130 caregivers, and 4,000
mothers/siblings through its five     3.      A potential means of using the
video on wheels units.                        mass media in the interests of
educational and social development
2.     Qualitative improvement outcomes             installed.
as improved education delivery and
support should result in increased    4.      Basic infrastructure for a future
learning gains and improved                   ETV station or DC unit.
motivation in preschoolers due to
the head start for formal education.  5.    Trained personnel available to staff
the ETV or DC units and to
3.     Throughout the project a model for            provide on-the-job training to other
using the media in the interests of           NTA personnel.
education will be tested, and
modified and refine as necessary to   6.      A bank of videos for early
raise impact and ensure efficiency.           childhood education and social
messaging available for
4.     The institutional building                    broadcasting.
component of the project will
establish the managerial/              7.     Printed material proofs available to
institutional infrastructure for              support video transmission.
production of ETV materials and a
mechanism for bringing all major       8.    Trained personnel for early
action groups together; and                   childhood care and education.
develop the human resources
necessary to implement and expand     9.      Quality TV products produced
the use of the media for education            locally that will enhance potential
and development.                             income-generation. This in turn
will provide financing to increase
5.     A successful project could provide            potential sustainability.
the foundations of either an ETV
service or a development               10.   A monitoring and evaluation
communication unit both of which              scheme in place.
would reach an increasingly large
and dispersed population as
transmission and reception
improved. It would also provide a
model for expansion in Nigeria or
for other countries to emulate.



- 107 -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA                    ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 3
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PROJECT
Potential Risks and Measures to Obviate Them
Risks Common to All ETV Projects             Preventative Measures Incorporated into
Project Design
1.    Investments too high and returns       Investments have been kept to an absolute
too low.                              minimum.
2.    There has been insufficient local      Local input has been maximized by using
input and relevance.                 local staff and training them mainly on the
job, devising the program content and
format locally with national experts, and
by using the major languages and relevant
regional contexts.
3.    Management has been problematic        Management responsibilities are clearly
with little commitment of/and         defined with a structure consisting of a
coordination between implementing     steering group and a working committee
groups.                               put in place.
4.    Administrative structure has been      Administration will be facilitated using
nebulous and inefficient.             specifically appointed staff with clear job
descriptions and a well-defined working
model.
5.    Too much equipment has been            Equipment supplies are being kept to a
supplied with insufficient            minimum of simple requirements that are
maintenance, spare and                supplied with spares and a maintenance
depreciation allowed and to be        contract, already qualified staff will
used by inexpert staff.               receive further training; for future
sustainability budget lines will be created
for depreciation, spares and maintenance.
6.    Teachers and parents have been         Teachers and other interested parties have
opposed to the use of television for  been questioned on their commitment to
instruction.                         the use of television for instruction - with
positive results.
7.    Television instruction has been        Instructional materials produced under the
used to replace rather than           project will supplement and enliven
supplement traditional teaching.      existing instruction.



- 108 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 3
Risks Common to All ETV Projects            Preventative Measures Incorporated into
Project Design
8.    Television production techniques      The power of television as a visual
have not been amply used because     medium of instruction will be fully
teachers have been in charge of      exploited since professional producers will
production hence the comparative     be managing production while professional
advantages of television techniques  educators advise on content and format.
to educate have not been fully
exploited.
9.    There has been virtually no           Project progress and success can be
feedback and evaluation hence        measured since monitoring and evaluation
success is unneasurable.             are built into the project using facilitators
and a consultant so that formative,
summative and impact evaluation become
routine and a feedback loop provides the
mechanism for ongoing program and
project modifications.
Risks Inherent in this Project
1.    Low commitment which may be           Commitment has been evident form the
due to lack of incentives and may    initial conceptualization of this project, has
affect timely project                been continued although there have been
implementation.                      several aborted attempts at preparation and
has been reinforced by full involvement in
project processing of NTA and, later, the
preschool proprietors and other agencies;
NTA's recently introduced
commercialization program will increase
salaries which, together with the
professional impetus of working on a new
production and distribution process, should
motivate staff.
2.    Weak institutional capacity.          Mismanagement is being minimized by
setting up a rigid organizational structure
and employing technical assistance to
oversee the project including accounting
and procurement.



- 109 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 3 of 3
Risks Inherent in this Project               Preventative Measures Incorporated into
Project Design
3.    Irregularities in supplies may cause   The supply situation is being addressed by
time over-runs.                       inputting required equipment and materials
into the project at an early stage, using
overseas sources for goods unavailable
locally; the project itself directly addresses
the question of lack of instructional
materials and trained caregivers.
4.    Inadequately delineated                Working relationships between all relevant
relationships between implementing    bodies are clearly delineated.
bodies can leave implementation
gaps or result in duplication of
efforts.
5.     Poor communication may hamper         Communications at the project working
progress.                             level and for distributing materials are
addressed within the project.
6.     Cost and time over-runs may result    Project design has been made as simple as
from an unnecessarily complex         possible within the specialized working
project design.                       context of television production and
transmission.
7.    In operations aimed at qualitative     Project achievements will be assessed on a
improvement there may be              continuous basis through in-built
insufficient evidence to measure      monitoring and evaluation allowing
project success.                      informed decisions to be made on
modification necessary to improve
instructional materials content and impact
during project implementation and
evaluating the project model for later
application.
Specific Risks Associated with this Project
May Be:                                      Autonomy of facility control is addressed
by providing for a technical assistant as
1.    New facilities may be taken over       project coordinator, situating the project
by other units of NTA.                production unit some distance from
mainstream NTA activities and including
in the legal agreement a covenant on the
dedicated use of the facilities.
2.     Delays in implementation.             Expeditious implementation is addressed
by giving the project coordinator
managerial control over project planning
and implementation.



- 110 -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PILOT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Baggalev. John. and Duby. Aliza. et a]. Evaluation of Education Television. (Johannesburg:
South African Broadcasting Corporation, 1987 vi, 319).
British Council, English Language and Literature Division. ODM - BBC - British Council
English Language Teaching Materials Scheme: evaluation report. (London: Minsitry of
Overseas Development, 1979).
British Council. Media in Education and Development. (Stevenage, England: Peter
Peregrinus Ltd., 1988 v. 21).
Educational Media in Tanzania: their role in development. (S.L. : s.n.), 1979-v).
Gilbert, John K, and Temple, Annette. Satellite TechnoloEv in Education (London; New
York: Routdedge, 1991).
Hancock, Alan. Producing for Educational Mass Media. (Paris, France: UNESCO, 1976).
Hoare, R. P. Lessons Through the Air: Final report of the Commonwealth Educational
Television Proiect. (London: Ministry of Overseas Development, 1968)
Hudspeth, Delane R. and Brey, Ronald G. Instructional Telecommunications: principles and
applications. (New York: Praeger, c1986).
Jamison, Dean, and Orivel, Francois. The Cost-effectiveness of Distance Teaching for
School Equivalencv. (Washington D.C.: The World Bank, 1981).
Jamison, Dean T. Cost Factors in Planning Educational Technology Systems. (Paris,
France: UNESCO, International Institute for Educational Planning, 1977).
Meyer, Manfred. Health Education by Television and Radio: conference report
International Information Week 1980, Munich, November 17th to 21st, 1980 (Munchen:
Internationales Zentralinstitut fur das Jugend--und Bildungsfernsehen, c1981).
Meyer, Manfred. Health Education by Television and Radio: contributions to an international
conference with a selected bibliographv. (Munchen; New York: Saur, 1981).
Perret, Heli. Using Communication Support In Projects: the World Bank's experience.
(Washington D.C: World Bank, 1982).
Stanford University. Institute for Communication Research. A Critique of Development and
Communication Trends in Tanzania. the Ivory Coast. and El Salvador: a report of the 1974
summer conference on communication and development. (Palo Alto, CA: Institute for
Communication Research, Stanford University, 1976).
Silverman, Theresa. Tdl6-Nizer: Adapting an electionic medium to a rural African context.
(Washington D.C.: Clearinghouse on development Communication, 1976).



- 1 11 -
UNESCO The Site Experience. (Paris, France: UNESCO, c1983)
Wagner, Alan and Fran Kenmmerer. Economics of Education: Tackling the New Policy
Issues, "Limits of the Use of Educational Technology in Developing Countries. (Dijon,
France: Institute de Recherche sur l'Economie de l'Education, June 1986)
INTERNAL DOCUMENTS:
World Bank Staff, 1991. Educational Technology: Sustainable and Effective Use.
Education and Employment Division, Population and Human Resources Department.
(Washington D.C.: World Bank). (Document with restricted circulation).
World Bank Staff, 1990. Pakistan: Third Education Project. Population and Human
Resources Division. World Bank, Washington D.C. Credit No. 678-Pak. (Document with
restricted circulation).
World Bank Staff, 1986. Malaysia: Third Education Proiect. Population and Human
Resources Division. World Bank, Washington D.C. Loan No. 974-MA. (Document with
restricted circulation).
World Bank Staff, 1986. Jamaica: Second Education Project. Population and Human
Resources Division. World Bank, Washington D.C. Loan No. 727-JM. (Document with
restricted circulation).
World Bank Staff, 1982. Turkey: First Education Proiect. Population and Human Resources
Division. World Bank, Washington D.C. Loan No. 748-TU. (Document with restricted
circulation).
World Bank Staff, 1980. Iraa: Education Project. Population and Human Resources
Division. World Bank, Washington D.C. Loan No 846-IRQ. (Document with restricted
circulation).
World Bank Staff, 1979. Malaysia: First Education Project. Population and Human
Resources Division. World Bank, Washington D.C. Loan No. 559-MA. (Document with
restricted circulation).
World Bank Staff, 1983. Haiti: First Education Project. Operations Evaluation Department,
World Bank, Washington D.C. Credit No. 618-HA. (Document with restricted circulation).
Staff Appraisal Report, April 30, 1990. Gambia: Women in Development Project.
Population and Human Resources Division, World Bank, Washington D.C. Report No.
8457-GM. (Document with restricted circulation).
World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 491. The Educational Use of Mass Media, October
1991.
World Bank Discussion Paper. Educational Media in Retrospect, by Drew Tiene and
Shigenari Futagami, February 1987. Education and Training Department.
World Bank Discussion Paper No. EDT69. The Eleven Who Survive: Toward a Re-
Examination of Early Childhood Development Program Options and Costs, by Robert G.
Meyers and Rachelle Hertenberg, March 1987.






MAP SECTION






CHAD
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_______ -                                   STT(OUEBE
'0                                                                           0
:~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         I
A^UiE   ABA                              /  OM,MUNCATIO
j   j    i  i  E   j    t   W                     PILOT PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~H
_~~~~~~OU                         I                                    COMMUNAIONAT IOUNfDRE



