Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2481 UNI
                   Development Credit Agreement
             (Development Communication Pilot Project)
                              between
                   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 30, 1993
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2481 UNI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1993, between  the FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Nigerian
Television Authority (NTA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NTA the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement  have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ETU" means Educational Television Unit to be
established in accordance with Part C of the Project;
      (b)   "FMIC" means the Federal Ministry of Information and
Culture of the Borrower;
      (c)   "Naira" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (d)   "NTA" means the Nigerian Television Authority,
established and operating under the Nigerian Television Authority
Decree, 1977;
      (e)   "Participation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NTA pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Participation
Agreement;
      (f)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Project States" means the States of Akwa Ibom, Benue,
Delta, Enugu, Imo, Kaduna, Kano, Lagos, Niger and Oyo;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Steering Group" means the group established in
accordance with Section 3.01 (b) (vi) and Part (C) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and
      (j)   "Working Committee" means the Committee established in
accordance with Section 3.01 (b) (vi) and Part D of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial or merchant bank  on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998  or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1, commencing
July 1, 2003 and ending January 1, 2028.  Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 1, 2013 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
Page  4
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through NTA
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to NTA, as a grant, under a participation agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NTA, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, and
which  shall, inter alia, require NTA to:
            (i)   allocate, by December 31, 1995, a weekly one-hour
                  of network time to the transmission of
                  educational materials, and increase said
                  transmission to three hours every week by project
                  completion;
           (ii)   introduce, no later than the fourth year of the
                  Project, an annual budget line of ten percent
                  (10%) of equipment costs for depreciation;
          (iii)   introduce, no later than the fifth year of the
                  Project, a budget item of ten percent (10%) of
                  equipment costs for maintenance and spare parts;
           (iv)   make funds available to pay staff salaries, cover
                  administrative costs and other recurrent
                  expenditures;
            (v)   use the ETU site, all the time throughout the
                  useful life of the facilities, solely for the
                  production of project related materials;
           (vi)   establish a Steering Group and a Working
                  Committee, each in a form and with functions
                  satisfactory to the Association, the membership
                  of which shall include a representative of FMIC;
                  and
          (vii)   define, in detail, the accounting system and the
                  managerial structure of ETU.
      (c)   The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement to the
satisfaction of the Association.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause NTA to open and
thereafter maintain in NTA's name, in a commercial or merchant bank
satisfactory to the Association, a Project Account in Naira into
which NTA shall deposit an initial amount equivalent to seventy
thousand dollars ($70,000) from its own resources and shall
thereafter quarterly replenish the Project Account by depositing the
required counterpart contributions provided by NTA, in accordance
with the estimated requirements as determined by the Association and
the Borrower.
Page  5
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by NTA.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause NTA to carry out,
in collaboration with FMIC, no later than three years after the
Effective Date, jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of
the Project. The mid-term review, inter alia, shall examine the
technical assistance phasing out, local staff involvement in the
production and distribution, the 26 episodes of pre-school videos
produced, the one hour per week of instructional and development
network programming, the distribution of the first batch of bought-
in videos, and the first formative evaluation.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause FMIC and NTA to implement all
corrective measures arising out of the mid-term review and agreed
with the Association.
      (c)   Three months prior to the review, FMIC and NTA shall
furnish to the Association all relevant documents showing progress
attained in carrying out the objectives of the Project.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) no later than December
31, 1995, cause NTA to carry out, in collaboration with FMIC, the
research studies referred to in Part C.6 of the Project; and (ii)
promptly thereafter cause NTA to furnish to the Association the
findings of the studies for the Association's review and comment.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause NTA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause NTA to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Account and the Project Account  for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six (6) months
                  after the end of each such year the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Association shall have
                  reasonably requested, including a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
Page  6
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall cause NTA to:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
                  was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NTA to:
      (a)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers or to
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risk and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
      (b)   carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   operate and maintain, at all time, its plant, machinery,
equipment and other property relating to the Project, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NTA will be
able to perform its obligations under this Agreement;
      (b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NTA or for the suspension of its operations; and
      (c)   NTA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Participation Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that  the event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                  Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
Page  7
      (a)   the Participation Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and NTA;
      (b)   the Project Account has been opened and the initial
deposit made;
      (c)   NTA has submitted to the Association the draft
International Competitive Bidding and Local Competitive Bidding
documents for civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture and videos
to be procured under the Project;
      (d)   NTA has furnished to the Association a surveyor's report
satisfactory to the Association, on the proposed site for the
studio, suitable architectural plans and buildings specifications
for the studio, including the confirmation that the land for the
site belongs to NTA;
      (e)   NTA has appointed the procurement consultant referred to
in paragraphs  2 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement respectively;
      (f)   NTA has furnished to the Association a short list of
candidates for: (i) the position of the Project Coordinator referred
to in paragraph 1 (E) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) the
positions of the production director, studio production specialist,
and monitoring and evaluation specialist referred to in paragraph 2
(a), (b) and (d) of the said Schedule 4;
      (g)   NTA has furnished to the Association the details of
overseas training courses required under the Project; and
      (h)   NTA has furnished to the Association detailed costs,
objectives and plans for the study tour itineraries included in the
Project.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that  the Participation
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
NTA, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NTA in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
            P.M.B. 14
            Garki, Abuja
            Nigeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FEDMINFIN                 21248 (ITT)
                  Abuja
      For the Association:
Page  8
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                  By /s/ Zubair M. Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works                     1,180,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                95% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Goods                     3,210,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                95% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                950,000        100% of foreign
     services                                   expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Incremental                  80,000        100% of local
     costs                                      expenditures
(5)  Unallocated                 480,000
     TOTAL
                               5,900,000
                               =========
Page  9
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)   the term "incremental costs" means the incremental costs
of the maintenance and operations of equipment, vehicles and
furniture financed under the Project, the travel and hotel costs,
office supplies and the session-fees of the Steering Committee and
Working Group members.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                          SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) promoting early childhood development; (ii) creating in parents
greater awareness of early childhood needs and care; (iii)
increasing the knowledge and competencies of persons in care of
children; (iv) developing the necessary framework of institutions
and infrastructure that will assure television programs of high
educational and developmental quality; and (v) developing replicable
forms of educational and social program development, monitoring and
evaluation.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Provision,  Dissemination and Development of
            Instructional Materials:
(1)   Provision to participating centers established in local
government areas of the Project States of video programs and printed
support materials, including: (i) production by the NTA of pre-
school programs; (ii) acquisition of children's video programs;
(iii) development of  video programs carrying messages dealing with
health, nutrition, AIDS prevention, environmental sanitation, early
child care, population, agricultural and economic activities and
other issues of social relevance.
(2)   Distribution of videos and other instructional materials to
both public and private pre-schools through NTA network, local
viewing centers and video-on-wheel units, including: (i) the
resumption by NTA of its weekly instructional broadcasts, (ii)
establishment of local viewing centers in suitable  locations in the
Project States; (iii) the establishment of video-on-wheel units to
travel to rural pre-schools; and (iv) the provision to private pre-
schools of videos and, where necessary, video equipment.
PART B:     Reinforcement of Instruction
(1)   Production by NTA of a series of training videos for pre-
school organizers, proprietors, facilitators and trainers.
(2)   Training courses, including: (i) training of (A) staff of non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), private proprietors and local
government authorities responsible for the coordination of pre-
schools, (B) program facilitators, (C) caregivers, and (D) drivers
and caretakers; (ii) on-the-job training by facilitators of
caregivers; and (iii) establishment of a Steering Group and Advisory
Page  10
Committee to advise on and oversee activities at the local viewing
centers.
Part C:     Institutional Framework and Establishment of a Model
(1)   Development of a center for educational television production,
including: (i) the establishment of an Educational Television Unit
(ETU); (ii) a study tour for staff of FMIC; (iii) overseas training
for key members of ETU's production team; and (iv) on the job
training for other production staff of ETU.
(2)   Establishment of: (i) a Steering Group to be responsible for
the organization of ETU; and (ii) a Working Committee to assist the
Steering Group in the carrying out of its functions.
(3)   Development of a methodology for program production including:
(i) program and production planning; (ii) research and production
development; (iii) preparation of pilots and test materials; and
(iv) studio and post production, field testing and broadcasting.
(4)   Training of pre-school education personnel to reinforce
instruction and to increase the understanding and impact of social
messages designed for caregivers and parents.
(5)   Monitoring, evaluation and research including: (i) a survey of
video-on-wheels and local viewing centers to ascertain appeal,
involvement and recall of program materials to children and parents;
(ii) a mid-project evaluation meeting of project designers,
implementers, evaluators, outside experts, and adult representatives
of targeted audiences; and (iii) compilation of survey data,
qualitative assessments, and summative analysis.
(6)  Additional research including: (i) a major study of the
coordinated use and potential impact of the media to accelerate
growth and development in Nigeria; (ii) research into transmission
problems and their solution; and (iii) a study of the future
development of ETU.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A(1) hereof, goods manufactured in the Federal
Republic of Nigeria may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
Page  11
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A (1) hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local competitive bidding:
      Studio furniture, vehicles and pre-produced videos estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $510,000 equivalent, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    Local shopping:
      Video distribution and reception equipment, reprographic
equipment and sundry items for video production and video programs,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,920,000
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraphs 2 (d) and 4 of said Appendix
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies  of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  12
                           SCHEDULE 4
              Actions referred to in Section 3.01 (c)
1.    Project Coordination and Management:
(A)   FMIC
      FMIC shall generally oversee the execution of the Project,
including ensuring that: (i) the Project is regularly monitored; and
(ii) NTA carries out the studies referred to in Part C.6 of the
Project by December 31, 1995.
(B)   NTA
1.    NTA shall have the responsibility of: (i) convening meetings
of the Steering Group and the Working Committee; and (ii) ensuring
the overall coordination of the activities of the project
institutions.
2.    NTA shall also be in charge of: (i) the procurement of civil
works, goods and services; (ii) the development, production and
acquisition of videos and printed support-materials; (iii) the
network distribution of the materials and distribution through three
video-on-wheels units and three local viewing centers; (iv) the
organization and oversight of monitoring and evaluation; (v)
complying with the reporting requirements; and (vi) staffing of ETU
and three video-on-wheels and three local viewing centers.
3.    For the purpose of the Project, NTA shall appoint: (i) a local
educational expert to check and monitor the educational input and to
assess the educational value of overseas materials; and (ii) a
monitoring and evaluation consultant to be responsible for
overseeing the coordination of production with distribution,
reinforcement, monitoring and evaluation.
(C)   Steering Group
1.    The Steering Group shall: (i) control the activities of ETU,
and (ii) ensure the quality of output and the efficient running and
financial control of ETU.
2.    The Steering Group shall be responsible, through the Director
of Programs and the Director General of NTA, to the FMIC.
(D)   Working Committee
      The responsibilities of the Working Committee shall be: (i)
to provide services to the Steering Group; and (ii) to evaluate  the
services through feedback from the recipients and the educational
validity of the programs.
(E)   Project Coordinator
      For the purpose of the coordination and the overall management
of the Project, a Project Coordinator, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association,  shall be appointed by
NTA. The Project Coordinator shall be, inter alia, responsible for:
            (i)   ensuring sound educational, creative
                  and technical standards;
           (ii)   maintaining the production schedule;
          (iii)   ensuring acquisition of overseas
                  materials;
           (iv)   coordinating with outside agencies
                  including the Association, and
                  providers of pre-school education;
                  and
Page  13
            (v)   reporting to the Management of NTA.
2.    Other:
      For the purpose of the Project, the following shall be
appointed:
      (a)   a Director experienced in educational programs,
            for six months in the first instance to build the
            team and develop the approach to ETU work;
      (b)   a studio production specialist to work for six
            months in the first instance alongside the
            technical crew, including lighting, sound, vision
            mixing, editing and camera operators;
      (c)   a procurement consultant to administer
            procurement in the first two years of the
            Project; and
      (d)   a monitoring and evaluation consultant with
            experience in monitoring television productions
            and their impact until the completion of the
            Project.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
Page  14
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories  shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
Page  15
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
