oCUMent o
The World Ban
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
R*pst N.. P-3843-M
]REPORT A1D RECO1 kTTOIIS
Pr}F;  aF n
UIIEATIOIAL BANK FCR DCOISTmCTION AIID IIEVEOPE
EXECUTIVE DIRTORS
CaN A
P-OSnED LAN
IL AN ANwUT EQIALrNT To uTso mILLIOLI
TO
NAIO?AL FLN1MERA, LSA.
WIT WELE GUA&IEE OF
UNITED NEICA SMTLTES
FOR AN
EIGHTE AGRICUIIURAL CEEDIT PROJBT
Jue 4, 1984
Thb jow a resfteiggd dbftz.ul md my be w& by rcipi Om only in the peeh mme of
their eseh duls. I  P Is may w4 edwwie be dsqiumd whow WwMdink  _,bim..



Currency Unit -Peso (ex S)
On May 31, 1984, the exchange rate in the controlled market ws
US$1 - Nex$L63.61; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 
Nex$181.73. Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of 1ex$0.13
per day agatist the US dollar.
Fiscal Tear
January 1 to December 31
SrIGHIS MAD MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                10,000 R2 - 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kmZ)            0.62 miles
1 square kiLometer (km2)     0.39 sq. miles  100 ha
I kilogram (kg)               2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                  O.Z6 gallons
1 cubic meter (i3)            35 cubic feet
1,000 kg.-- 1 metric ton     0.98 long ton
ABBREVIA7IONS
ACF         -   Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
BANIURAL   -   National Rural Credit Bank
CECADE     -   Economic Development Training Center
CONASUPO    -   National Marketing Corporation
EDI        -   Economic Development Institute
FEFA       -   Secial Agricultural Credit Trust Fund
FEGA       -   Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund
FIDEC      -   Trust Fund for Marketing Development
FIRA       -  Agricultural Trust Funds in Bank of Mexico
FONDO      -   Trust FuTd for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit
FONEI      -   Industrial Equipment Fund
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
IDB        -   Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD       -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC        -   International Finance Corporation
IMF        -   International Monetary Fund
NAFINSA    -   Nacional Financiera, S.A
NDP        -   National Development Plan
SAN        -  Mexican Food Progra&
SAEH       -   Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
SOE        -   Statement of Expenditure



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
EIGHIH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:         United Mexican States
Beneficiary:       Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FRAR)
Amount:            US$300 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$748,130.
Terz=:             Fifteen years , including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   Funds would be provided to FIRA as equity.  The proceeds
would be relent by FIRA on terms and conditions that vary
with the income level of the beneficiaries and purposes of
the subloans, as specified in the General Interest Rate
Agreement negotiated recently with the Government.
Project
Description:     The project is a credit program which would seek to
increase agricultural productivity and production with a
view to increasing exports, self-sufficiency in food and
real farm income. It would continue to develop FlRA's
institutional framework for efficient allocation of
financial resources and assist to improve agricultural
policies through the reduction of interest rate
subsidies. The low-income producers' component would
comprise about one-half of the total investment program.
A program of training and demonstration would provide
support to credit operations. About 105,000 families or
580,000 beneficiaries would benefit from the project.
Project Risks:     Since FIRA is a reasonably efficient and mature
institution, the project presents no special risk in terms
of the technical and financial soundness of various
investment opportunities that would be financed under the
program. The main risk would be that political pressures
would Impede progress in eliminating interest rate
subsidies, especially in the case of a resurgence of
inflation causing a furtber deterioration of FIRA's
financial position, a continued drain on Government budget
resources, and a continued misallocation of production
factors.
This document hu a esicted disntbution and may be used by recipients only in heean
of theiw officiad duties Its contents may not othewis be disdised witbout world Bank authoiiton.w



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
JSS mion
1. Investment Program
Crop Investments                               103       129      232
Livestock Investments                          120        39      159
Agroindustrial Investments                      33        27       60
II.   Working Capital                                137        60      197
Subtotal                                       393       255      648
III.  Productive Support                              12          3      15
IV. Project Cost                                    405       258      663
V. Price Contingency                                59         41     100
VI. Total Investment                                464        299     763
VII. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                        -          1       1
TOTAL                                    464       300      764
_          - 
Financing Plan:
Local  Foreign   Total
=-- U4S$ mllion
Participating Banks                    102               102
FIRA                                   260               260
Bank                                            300      300
Beneficiaries                          102               102
TOTAL                            464      300      764
Estimated
Disbursements:                 Bank FY   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
US$ mIllion
Annual                          80     75     80     60       5
Cumulative                      80    155    235    295    300
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 5014b-ME dated June 4, 1984.
Economic Rate
of Return:           Economic Rates of Return for subloan investments range
from 19% to over 100%.



REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED IOAN TO N&CIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WI  THE GUARMAEE OF UNITED  EXCAN STATES
FOR AN EIGHTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recoendation on a proposed loan to
Nacional Financiera, S.A., (NAFI1SA.) with the Guarantee of Urited Mexican States
for the equivalent of US$300 million to help finnce an Eighth Agricultural Credit
Project to be carried out by the Agricultural Trust Fund (FIRA). The loan, which
includes a capitalized front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank loan, would be
repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. Final beneficiaries would pay interest rates floating with the ACF
index (average cost of funds to multipurpose banks) as specified in the draft
General Interest Rate Agreement which is being distributed together with the
project documents. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I: THF ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments and
Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 14,
1984. The report's m-an conclusions are summarized below.
Background
3.        After almost three decades of relatively stable and high economic
growth, Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis in 1976 and
an even more serious one six years later, in 1982. When the Bank's previous
economic report was prepared in 1980 and early 1981, an underlying trend towards
structural economic imbalance was already evident, and the potential dangers were
recognized. However, the issues were Lot addressed by the outgoing Governoent
with the vigor that was required as oil revenues and external loans had
temporarily eliminated foreign exchange constraints to development.
4.        Today, Mexico is struggling to emerge from a crisis worse than any other
in its modern history, and faces a severe resource constraint. In this struggle,
the Government cannot afford to delay implementation of corrective policies on a
broad front. Moreover, the prospects for a resumption of economic growth depend
more than ever on favorable international conditions. The path leading to
Mexico's economic recovery is a narrow one, with limited options and little room
for maneuver in domestic policy.
Developments During 1977-1982
5.        The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the aid-1970g allowed the Lopez Portillo
1J  This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Ports Project (P-3837-ME of May 31,
1984).



- 2 -
Administration (Jan. 1977 - Dec. 1982) to overcome the serious financial crisis
of 1976 and to start working on structural, social and economic problems, includ-
ing poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment. regional imbalances and
relatively slow agricultural growth.  In the early years of that Administration
(1977-1980) GDP growth was high (8.5 percent a year), 2.5 mllion jobs were
created, domestic consumption recovered. and the share of investment and savings
in GDP surpassed historical levels.
6.         Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to ir-
creasing public deficits and an overheated economy. Although inflationary pres-
sures mounted, the exchange rate was not adjusted.  By mid-1981, the economic
situation began to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial crisis.
The appreciation of the real exchange rate contributed to a current accouat defi-
cit of 5.8 percent of GDP, while the deteriorating international oil market conr
ditions caused large revenue shortfalls with respect to budget expectations. The
public sector deficit rose to just under 15 percent of GDP. External borrowing
was used to finance part of the domestic fiscal deficits and to defend the ex-
change rate. Mexico's foreign debt increased rapidly, at a time of high and
rising international interest rates. A stabilization program initiated by the
Government in mid-1981 was not sufficient to redress the growing fiscal imbal-
ance, the high cost of foreign loans and the increasing private capital flight
fueled by the public's anxiety over Mexico's financial troubles.
7.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40 percent devaluation in dollar terms. A large wage adjustment
granted in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community was unwilling to
commit new funds to Mexico, in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of the peso in August 1982, while the acute shortage of
foreign exchange forced the Government to suspend the anortization payments of
most of Mexico's external public debt pending a broader agreement on Its
refinancing. Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by
the nationalization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory conversion
of US dollar deposits into pesos. Also put into effect were a generalized system
of exchange controls and strict external trade restrictions.
Recent Developments
8.        The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to deal with Mexico's grave economic
situation. The EFF agreement, approved by the IMF in December 1982, laid the
basis for the re-negotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on
which amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial
banks agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide
US$5 billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between
August 23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight year
period, starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at an
interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York
prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year
grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The restructir-
ring exercise included an understanding that the international banks would



3 3-
maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been nationalized. At the
same time, it provided a mechanism that would eliminate 1982 private sector
interest arrears and facilitate payment of the rescheduled principal on such
debt.
9.        A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate was
originally set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35 percent in relation to
the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. It has been
depreciated at a rate of Mex$0.13 per day, and is currently about Mex$164 per
dollar. The free market rate had remained at about mex$150 per dollar until
September 1983, when the authorities decided to let it slide at the same rate as
the controlled rate, and is now about Mex$182 per dollar. The differential
between the two rates, which in December 1982 stood under 60 percent, is now down
to 11 percent. Although inflation continred to be high (about 81 percent in
1983), the real effective exchange rate in the controlled market remains competi-
tive, and non-oil exports have risen considerably.
10.      Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a dras-
tic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0 percent of GDP in 1982 to
8.5 percent in 1983, 5.5 percent in 1984 and 3.5 percent in 1985. SuaDstantial
progress was achieved during 1983 in meeting the program objectives. The public
finances were strengthened considerably and the public sector deficit in 1983
remained at all times below the ceilings established under the program. The
brunt of public expenditure cuts in 1983 was borne by public investment. The
cuts were made virtually across the board, but the authorities gave priority to
completing projects that were already far advanced and to those that were import-
ant for employment, equity, or foreign exchange earnings. Overall, public
investment excpenditures are estimated to have declined in 1983 to about 7.4 per-
cent of GDP, from 11.7 in 1982. The fiscal performance of 1983 was also aided by
significant price increases for nearly all public goods and services, including
petroleum products, electricity rates, food, etc. The Government has committed
itself to a substantial reduction and eventual elimination of most subsidies,
including those provided in the form of low interest rates.
11.      The balance of paymenats experienced a major turnaround, the current ac-
count moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a surplus of US$5.5
billion in 1983. The strength of the current account and the availability of e-
ternal finance permitted Mexico to replenish its international reserves while
paying a large part of the arrears that had accumulated in 1982. The net use of
foreign financing by the public sector was US$4.2 billion for the year-below the
ceiling of US$5 billion under the stabilization program. The errors and omis-
sions account of the balance of payments dropped from US$11 billion in 1982 to an
estimated US$0.4 billion in 1983, largely reflecting the decline in unrecorded
capital outflows. The swing in the current account was mainly the result of a
very sharp contraction of merchandise imports, to US$7.7 billion representing a
decline of about US$7 billion from their 1982 level. The recession, the large
devaluation of the peso and the quantitative restrictions all contributed to
this. The performance of non-oil exports which had been poor in the earlier part
of the year, improved considerably in the second half and showed an increase of
10.6 percent in dollar terms for the year as a whole. Growth in tourism and in-
bond industry was particularly strong, and helped in alleviating unemployment.



The Government's stabilization program, together with a moderate incomes
policy helped bring down inflation; it averaged 70 percent (annualized rate) in
the last quarter of 1983 compared to 125 percent in the first quarter. The flow
of savings into the banking system was in line with the projections of the
program, reflecting both the exchange rate and interest rate policies. The
impact of the severe and sudden adjustment of public expenditures and imports on
economic growth has been serious; GDP is estimated to have declined by close to 5
percent in 1983. However, some signs of economic recovery have appeared in
recent months: the demand for credit in the private sector has increased, and
employment in the modern sector has risen somewhat.
1Z.      The nev Government took steps to regain the confidence of both domestic-
and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with the problems
of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of nationalized banks,
and a more flexible application of the foreign investment law.   Negotiations are
now being completed with commercial banks and other private creditors for the
refinancing of a total of US$11.6 billion of private sector obligations at
stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12 years, with 3- to 4-year grace
periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the restructuring of Mexican private
sector obligations guaranteed by official credit agencies abroad. The Government
recently announced a program to transfer back to private sector ownership most of
the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial banks prior to their
nationalization. These measures and announcements have been beneficial, but much
more remains to be done to restore full confidence of Mexican entrepreneurs and
foreign investors. The Government fully realizes that this is an issue of the
greatest importance as economic recovery beyond the current stabilization period
will depene critically on the resumption of vigorous private investment.
Short-term Economic Outlook
13.       The Administration's stabilization policies will continue in 1984.
The authorities expect a gradual resumption of economic growth and a further re-
duction in inflation, while maintaining a strong balance of payments. Real GDP
in 1984 is projected to grow by about 1 percent, -hile inflation is expected of-
ficially to decline to about 40 percent, on a December-to-December basis, com-
pared to 81 percent the year before although that may turn out to be somewhat op-
timistic. The increase in economic activity is to be based mainly on a revival
of the private sector and a small increase in public investment. Total employ-
ment should continue to rise as the authorities proceed with the implementation
of an emergency program to create and maintain between 700,000 and 800,000 addi-
tional jobs in 1983-84. Declining domestic inflation (combined with the steady
slide of both the controlled and the so-called free market exchange rates - see
para. 9) is expected to provide adequate incentives to export development and ef-
ficient import substitution. The Government expects merchandise imports to inr-
crease to US$14 billion in 1984, partly as a result of recent measures reducing
the restrictiveness of the import licensing system, and merchandise exports to
US$24 billion (from US$22 billion in 1983) with most of the increa_e coming from
nonr-oil exports. The current account surplus for the year is expected to be
about US$0.7 billion in 1984. For 1984, the growth in public sector debt out-
standing and disbursed is to be limited to US$4 billion. An important source of
external financing for the year will be a US$3.8 billion syndicated loan from
commercial banks. This loan will have a 10-year maturity, with a 5-3/4-year
grace period, comparing favorably with the 1983 US$5 billion loan of 6-year matu-
rity and 3-year grace. Further, the spreads on the new loan are 1-i percent over
LIBOR (1-1/8 over prime), down from 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime) in 1983.



-5-
Nediumr-term Prospects
14.      The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development Plan
(NDP) for 1983-1988, combines special efforts to recover from the present crisis
with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth to over-
come structural problems. The main structural problems facing Mexico in the
years ahead include the very high rate of population growth (2.6 percent
estimated for 1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a
little under 4 percent), slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed
incerpersonal and interregional income distribution, and an overly oil-dependent
economy with a manufacturing sector that has been inward looking for too long.
15.      The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy including a greater export orientation of the
industrial system, poverty alleviation through basic needs policies and improve-
ment in labor absorption, decentralization of economic activity, revision of
external trade policies and modernization of the commercial structure. The basic
elements of policies to address structural problems are mentioned in the NDP and
it is expected that further details on specific programs and schedules for policy
adjustments will be provided in the sectoral plans which are now under
preparation.
16.      Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are good, provided economic management continues to be prudent, private sector
confidence is restored, and the international environment remains favorable.
Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued efforts to reduce the
fiscal deficit, liberalize trade and minimize price distortions. Restoration of
private sector confidence is cr'icial since only a strong and dynamic private
sector will be able to raise investment from the present depressed levels and to
supply the increasing non-oil export surplus required for the resumption of
growth. Success in this regard will depend critically on the quality and the
effectiveness of Government's policies. As regards the external environment, the
commercial banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real terms,
and foreign markets to be open to Mexico's nonr-oil exports. Mexico's prospects
would benefit from a continuing fall in interest rates in the world financial
markets (a one percentage point drop would mean a savings of about US$800 million
in overall interest payments) and rising petroleum prices (a one dollar change in
the price of a barrel of oil would alter export receipts by $550 million for the
year).
17.       Under favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's economic
growth could reach 6 percent a year--the historical average for Mexico -towards
the late 1980s. This growth would materialize through a sustained recovery of
the commodity producing sectors. Contrary to the recent experience with public
expenditure-led growth, Mexico's future economic performance will depend
critically on the recovery of private sector investment.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983 and is expected to rise by a similar amount this year. With an expected net
new borrowing of some US$3 to US$4 billion a year, the ratio of external debt to
GDP would decline steadily from 41 percent in 1984 to 33 percent by 1990. The



- 6 -
debt service ratio (32 percent in 1984 after rescheduling) would peak at about
60 percent in 1987-as amortizations on new borrowing and the rescheduled debt
fall due-and would decline thereafter to below 40 percent by the end of the
decade. The ratio of public debt outstanding to exports of goods and
non-factor services would fall from 2.5 in 1984 to 1.5 in 1990.
19.       As its debt repayment schedule implies large gross financing needs
during the 1980s, Mexico will need to count on the continued cooperation of the
international financial community in refinancing amortization payments and
providing some additional net new borrowing. Such cooperation is already
evident from the favorable terns of the US$3.8 billion jumbo loan from the
commercial banks for 1984 (see para. 13), reflecting the Improvement in
Mexico's external position. At the end of 1982, the last year for which a
comprehensive external debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share
in Mexico's debt was 5.3 percent. The Bank share in Mexico's total public
external debt service payments during that year was 3.7 percent. In view of
the good medium and loug term potential of its economy and the prospect of
continued pursuit of sound economic policies by the present Administration,
Mexico is considered creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
pART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO2/
Bank Operations
20.       As of March 31, 1984, Mexico had received 82 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$6,486 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
53 loans totalling US$2,887 million were fully disbursed. The Bank held
US$5,335.9 million, of which US$2,327.4 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 42 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development,
23 percent for industry, 11 percent for power, and 13 percent for
transportation; the remaining 11 percent has been for water supply, tourism,
urban development, vocational training and pollution control projects. Annex
II contains a summary stat.ment of Bank loans as of March 31, 1984.
21.       Of the US$6.48 billion total lending, about US$3.2 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and mediumrscale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather
than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
22.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfacto-
rily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448
2/ This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Ports Project (P-3837-ME of May 31,
1984).



- 7 -
million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again causing delays
in the provision of counterpart funds, consequently, disbursements in FY83
declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in
early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding cons-
traints on development projects, and 18 Bank financed projects are receiving
support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements during
the first three months of 1984 improved significantly and, at US$195 million,
almost equalled thrice the amount disbursed in the same period of 1983.
IFC Operations
23.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC had made investment commitments in 23
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$730.4 million, of which US$542.8 million
had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in
preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchange
financing to private sector companies for the importation of machinery,
equipment and spare parts required for production of exportable products, for
efficient import substitution and for improvements in the utilization of their
existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility
(including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is
providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted
under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment; (c)
help reduce Mexico's urbanr-regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following tbhe 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close cooperation
with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program through asr-
sistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic and sector
work. As for medium term prospects, the volume and composition of Bank lending
to Mexico would be related to progress in the implementation of policy reforms
needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy conditionality
affecting the entire lending program or important parts of it. Specific policy
reforms that would be pursued through a dialogue with the Government, to be
conducted in parallel with the processing of lending operations, would cover
priority macro-economic and cross-sectoral issues, such as interest rate
policy, energy pricing, subsidy reduction and export development.
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living
in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:
first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in general;
second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third,
to complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as extenr-
sion, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-generat-
ing investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 13 loans in FYs78-83 total-
ling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural,



- 8 -
agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a
rural development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabili-
tation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4
million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was approved in
early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was approved by
the Executive Directors in April 1983. Projects for rainfed agriculture and
regional development are in preparation.
26.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employ-
ment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and finance is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico, and
the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new
growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to promote the development of
small- and mediumrscale industrial enterprises, to finance expansion of small-
and medium-scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI)
were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. A loan for a vocational
training project was approved by the Executive Directors in July 1981; it is
assisting a program to increase the supply of skilled workers and technicians.
A US$152.3 million loan for development of a capital goods industries project
and a US$60 million loan for pollution control were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY82. A modification in the capital goods project was approved by
the Executive Directors in early 1983 to set up a pilot export development fund
to help satisfy the foreign exchange needs of Mexican exporters.  A US$350
million loan for an Export Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a
Third Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the
Executive Directors in FY83.
27.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. A highway
sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support these
goals. The first and second medium-size cities water supply and sewerage pro-
jects (FY76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and finance of spe-
cialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal
levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to
costs; a third project was approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983.
28.       The Govern ent has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project
to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by
the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FY81. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
29.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CELADE (Centro
de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico under the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, monitoring
and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional
development, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has
also assisted the Mexican authorities in training peiionnel for managing water
supply and industrial credit projects.



30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling
US$3.1 billion as of March 31, 1984. Over 50 percent of the total has gone to
agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transportation,.
industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure, education, municipal
development, and pre-investment.  The TDB and the Bank have coordinated their
assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for the national integrated
rural development program (PIDE) ), agricultural and livestock credit, small- and
mediumr-scale industries development, and hotel development projects. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of
US$22 million for a rural development project in the state of Oaxaca which was
appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating
institution for administering the loan.
31.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in Mexico
have been co-financed by several bilAteral export credit agencies and cocmercial
banks. nl January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from commercial banks to
provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects where project specific
co-financing would have been difficult.
FARr III. THE AGRICULTUAL SECTOR
Ari,culture in the Economy
32.       Mexico's agricultural sector contributes about 1OZ of the gross domestic
product, employs about one-third of the country's active labor force and
contributes about 6Z to the country's exports. Between 1945 and 1955, annual
agricultural production growth rates averaged about 6%, but declined to about 4.4Z
between 1955 and 1965, and to less than 3% between I965 and 1980. During the
latter period, production increases from newly irrigated land slowed down and
agricultural terms of trade gradually worsened. However, agricultural production
increased at an annual rate of about 8.5X in both 1951 and 1982. The increase was
the combined result of favorable weather conditions, higher farm-gate prices and
large input subsidies under the Government-sponsored Mexican Food Program (SAM).
33.       The reduced agricultural production growth before 1981, coupled with
increasing internal demand, resulted in Increased food imports and deterioration
in the agricultural trade balance. In 1979 the country experienced its first
agricultural trade deficit, and in 1981 the deficit was over US$1 billion.
However, since 1982 the agricultural trade deficit has reversed primarily due to
reduced imports influenced by substantial devaluations. Since 1970, corn, wheat,
soybeans, sorghum and powdered milk have been the principal food imports,
representing about 7.6% of total imports in 1980. During the same period, cotton,
coffee, fruits, and vegetables constituted the main exports.
Production Trends and Past Agricultural Policy
34.       Mexico's basic crops, which include maize, beans, wheat, rice, sorghum,
soybeans and sugarcane are produced on about 75% of the cultivated area.
Production has varied strongly from year to year with a basic growtb trend of 1.5%
to 2.5% over the 197IO, i.e., well below the population growth rate. Government
intervention in the price setting and marketing of these crops gradually grew



- 10 -
stronger over the decade. With the pressure to protect the consumer agaist
increased food prices during a period of gradually increasing inflation, the terms
of trade worsened. As a result, imports of these crops increased strongly, i.e.,
maize imports increased from 736,000 tons in 1970 to 3.8 million tons in 1980 and
sorghum imports from 10,900 tons in 1970 to 2.8 million tons in 1981_ From 1980
to 1982, the Government attempted to reverse this trend, by substantially
increasing farm-gate prices and introducing a range of input subsidies in the
context of SAMY Farmers responded positively but, as consumer prices for the
basic products were adjusted more slowly than producer prices, consumer subsidies
increased and the Government progrma became too costly to maintain after 1982.
35.      The production of export crops (mainly coffee, fruits and vegetables),
which has remained relatively free from Government intervention in trade and
prices, showed an annual average growth of about 12% between 1975 and 1979. In
the ensuing three years, exports of these crops stagnated, mainly due to an
inreasig overvaluation of the Mexican currency. However, indications are that
since I982, growth has resumed. Rgarding livestock activities, beef production
grew at an annual rate of 7% between 1975 and 1982, and pork, poultry =eat and
eggs production at even higher rates, between lot and 12Z annmally over the same
period. These growth rates were sufficient to cover increased domestic demand and
Mexico's traditional beef exports were basieally maintained. Milk, however, which
is produced under controlled prices, grew at only about 1.8% per annum during this
period. Milk imports In the ten years before 1982 rose at an anmmal rate of about
07., and presently equal about 16Z of total production in fluid equivalent.
36_       Growth In related sectors has been mixed: (a) the agroindustries
subsector grew rapidly through the decade of the 1970s (1(% per annum), and in
1979 accounted for about 18% of the industrial sector's output; (b) the forestry
sector which comprises about 21 million ha of comercial wood is underexploited,
producing only about 9 million m3 of wood products In 1981; and (c) the fisheries
subsector has shown significant growth in recent years risin from an annual catch
of about 0.25 mlllion tons in 1970 to about 2 million tons in 1982. Approximately
30% of the value went into exports (mainly shrimp) and about 5UZ of the total
catch into fish meal.
Present Government Agricultural Strategy
37.      At the end of 1982, when the new Goverrment took office, there was an
urgent need to reassess and reorient agricultural development policies. After
substantial devaluations, domestic farm-gate prices had deteriorated in real
terms. Strong price increases, especially for the basic comodities * were
required if farmers were to maintain and increase production levels. On the other
hand, in order to suppress inflation there was a need to contain food price
increases. Also, in view of high public sector deficits, the Government's
agricultural subsidy policy needed to be overhauled.
38.      The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development Plan
for 1983-1988, aims at accelerated agricultural growth. The policy emphasizes the
importance of agriculture in increasing Mexican exports and production of import
substitutes.  The stated policy over the medium-term is to guarantee farm prices
which are consistent with international prices. Hbvever, in the short-term,
emphasis is being placed on adequate compensation for the increased cost of
production and a reasonable profit margin to producers to determine price levels.
Prices for basic crops (i.e., mostly the controlled sector) increased about 120%



- 11 -
in nominal terms during 1983 and further increases, averaging around 35%, have
been made in 1984. The basic staples, such as maize and wheat, are nw  priced at
current international levels- Input subsidies have been strongly reduced-
Subsidized prices for key inputs (i_e-, fertilizer and seeds) are mow only
available for rainfed-mafze production to small farmers halding less than 20 ha
each. Interest rates on agricultural subloans, which until now were fixed and
generally negative in real terms, will be made variable and are to approach
positive levels gradually in accordance vith a timetable that forms part of the
General Interest Rate Agreement between the Government and the Bank. The movement
in rates will be referenced to the latest average cost of funds to multipurpose
banks (AC?)3-1 Irrigation water rates were increased on an average about 2OM
during 1983 and further adjustments are expected to be made towards tne stated
goal of achieving operation and aintenance costs recovery under a geveral
strategy to improve the use and management of Mexico' s water and soil resources.
Improvement and rehabilitation projects will be undertaken in existing irrigation
areas, and new investments will be decided on selectively, stressing smail and
medium-scale irrigation projects in regions with a lesser degree of development_
The Government is also taking steps to decentralize planning, programming and
Implementation of rural development projects to state and local levels and to
improve interagency coordination. Agricultural policy dialogue between the
Government and the BaTnk has been intense in the recent past, and both have agreed
to a continuous policy dialogue in the future-
Agricultural Credit
39.       Within the context of its agricultural development policies, the
Government has used credit as an important instrument for achieving growth and
equity objectives. First, it has encouraged growth in agricultural lending by
making public funds available (through the Bank of Mexico or from the budget) to
various financing agencies, such as the Agricultural Trust Funds (FIRA), to
discount subloans made by Mexican banks. Second, it has significantly promoted
credit to low-Income producers by (a) financing operating subsidies of the
state-owned National Rural Credit Bank (BAZIRURAL); (b) providing technical
assistance and loan recovery guarantees to comercial banks that lend to
low-income producers; (c) obliging such banks to bold part of their legal deposits
in the Bank of Mexico in low-income producer loans; and (d) since 1976,
increasingly, financing subsidized interest rates on loans to such farmers. The
result has been a dramatic growth in outstanding agricultural credit from the
commercial and public banks from Nex$17.7 billion in 1970 to Mem$218.5 billion In
1981-an average annual increase of 10.4Z in real terms. Low-income producers
accounted for about 50% of the total loan portfolio in 1981.
40.       While agricultural credit grew continuously up to 1981, growth came to
an abrupt end in 1982, when institutional credit to agriculture fell nationwide by
about Z8Z in real terms; again in 1983 it fell by about 25Z. The decline occurred
because (a) as a result of high inflation, recuperations on the existing loan
portfolio were inadequate to cover the demand for funds; and (b) the Government
was unable to finance the large subsidy required to bridge this gap. In addition,
because of strong devaluations, many traditional US sources of short-term
3/   The weighted average of interest rates paid by financial institutions on
bonds, notes, and certificates of deposit, excluding checking and
savings accounts. This rate is published monthly by the Bank of Mexico.



- 12 -
finan ing outside the domestic banking system disappeared. In 1983, the banking
system could not satisfy all of the demand for agricultural credit.
41.       FlRA.  The Bank of Mexico is the trustee for the three agricultural
trust funds, which are integrated for management and accounting purposes and
administered as FIRA: (a) the Trust Fund for Crop, livestock and Poultry
Credit (FOEDO), which discounts to participating comercial and public banks
short-term subloans for crops, livestock and agroindustry; (b) the Special
Agricultural Trust Fund (FEFA), which discounts medium- and long-term subloans for
crops, livestock and agroindustry; and (c) the Technical Assistance and Loan
Guaranree Trust Fund (FEG&) ,which defrays to participating banks part of the cost
of subloan evaluation and technical assistance for low-income producers, and
guarantees the commercial banks' contribution to these subloans.
42_       FIRA and the Bank have a long and good relationship, having
satisfactorily completed six projects with the ongoing seventh agricultural credit
project substantially on schedule (providing a total financing of US$925 million).
In addition to being one of the main providers of financial resources to the
Mexican agricultural sector, FIRM provides significant technical assistance to
coumercial banks and to farmers, through its training programs and demonstration
centers. Throughout the years, FIRA has earned a good reputation, and its
management is experienced and of high quality. However, some fine tuning of its
operations will be needed, especially in the field of mediumrterm planning, in
order to optimize use of scarce resources. Moreover, FIRA's technical assistance
program needs to be expanded, to promote producers' adoption of new and improved
technology and to strengthen its monitoring and evaluation procedures.
43.       Until end-1981, FIRA's annual operating profits were sufficient to avoid
decapitalization of its equity. This position vas reversed when inflation rose to
99Z in 1982 and 81Z in i983, while interest rates on subloans were fixed. In
addition, prevailing rates for current lending were not raised sufficiently to
adjust to the high inflation levels of the period. However, the decapitalization
of the loan portfolio was largely absorbed by the Government through (a) Bank of
Mexico rediscounts of about 60Z of FIRA's discounts at varying rates of interest,
allowing FIRA a fixed margin of 3Z to 3. 5; and (b) Government guarantees which
absorb exchange losses on almost all foreign indebtedness. At end-1983, the
accumulated losses (1981 to 1983) on existing FIRA foreign indebtedness to be
absorbed by the Government amounted to about Mex$70 billion (US$437 million).
After deducting the Government subsidy, FIRA suffered decapitalization at an
average of about 30Z per year during 1982 and 1983.
44_       For the next four-year period (mid-1984 to mid-1988), FIRA has adopted
an overall lending target of about US$3,556 million. This would allow it to
increase its level of lending by 5Z per annum in real terms. FIlA's proposed
lending program would be financed partly by Bank of Mexico financing, equivalent
to about 40Z of its total lending. The remaining balance would be generated from
FIRA's own resources and through external borrowlngs. During the period 1984-88,
FIRA's financial gap, after allowing for the repayment of US$442 million of
foreign indebtedness becoming due, would be US$790 million. The Bank's proposed
loan of US$300 million would allow FIRA to reduce this gap to US$490 million.
45.       BANRURAL. BANRURAL, a public entity and the largest bank in Mexico,
incorporates 12 subsidiary regional banks with 630 branches. Its lending
operations, which increased from Mex$24 billion in 1970 to Mex$74 billion in



- 13 -
1981 and Me3$ 169 billion in 1983, consist mainly of short-term credit (82X of 1983
lending) primarily to low-income producers (about 90% of total).   BANRURAL's
operating costs are high (about 16Z of loan portfolio) and a high percentage of
its loans are in arrears or unrecoverable; as a result, the bank is heavily
subsidized. In 1981, the Government allocated from its budget about Hex$54
billion (US$2.2 billion), consisting of an equity contribution of Mex$ 14 billion
and an operational subsidy of Hex$40 billion.   While BADRURAL as a financial
institution is considered too weak at this time for direct Bank financing, it is
allowed to participate in FIRA's discounting system because FIRA exercises,
through its own control mechanism, sufficient selectivity and supervision to
obtain good performance.
46.       Commercial Banks.  The commercial banks, which were nationalized on
September 1, 1982, continue to operate in a manner similar to their previous role
as private banks. Because of the support extended by FIRA in terms of funds,
training of staff and other support services, many commercial banks have
established agricultural credit departments with agricultural technicians, who are
graded and authorized to evaluate and approve subloans at varying levels. Lending
operations by commercial banks traditionally concentrated on commercial producers
and agroindustries. Consequently, the Bank of Mexico, in order to encourage
lending to low-income producers, stipulated that 0.7Z of total deposits of
multipurpose banks and 2Z of deposits in cammercial banks must be held in the form
of agricultural loans to low-income producers.  In addition, FEGA provides
guarantees (about 802 of subloans) and reimburses technical assistance for
subloans to low-income producers. Lending by commercial banks tbrough FIRA to
low-income producers now averages about 28% of total subloans discounted as
compared to about 102 in 1980. The commercial banks discounted about Mex$109
billion of subloans with FIRA in 1983, representing 83Z of FIRA's total discounts.
Previous Bank Projects
47.       In the past ten years (FY1974-83), Bank participation in the
agricultural sector amounted to US$2,523 million distributed among 19 projects, of
which three were credit proiects (FIRA V, VI and VII) with Bank financing
totalling US$765 million. In December 1982, the Bank issued a combined completion
report on the Fifth and Sixth Credit Projects (Report No. 4240). The overall
conclusions were as follows:
(a) FIRA's performance has been impressive and has had a strongly
positive impact on agricultural production and institution
building;
(b) specific components set aside in Bank loans for low-income
producers have helped to focus lending more on this farmer
category.  Also, lending, which was initially mainly for livestock,
has become progressively more diversified;
(c) FIRA, supported by the Bank, was in the process of developing a
monitoring and evaluation system to measure lending impact, and has
over the past three years effectively decentralized its lending
operations, as a result of which most of its field offices have a
reputation for excellence;



- 14 -
td) the gap (since 1976) between FIRA's interest rates and commercial
interest rates progressively widened as no provisions were made for
periodic adjustments during implementation. This caused (i) an
accelerating demand for credit; and (ii) a slow deterioration of
FIRA's financial position; and
(e) FIRA's capabilities for sectoral analysis, planning and
programming and internal control of subloans was inadequate in the
face of strongly expanded demand.
48.       The Seventh Project, which is expected to be completed in mid-1984, was
designed taking into account the experiences and lessons gained through the
previous projects.  There is a significant improvement in quality control of
subloans financed through FIRA. An Operating Regulations and Procedures Manual
and a data base system have been developed and a monitoring and evaluation system
has been satisfactorily organized. FIRA's capabilities for in-depth sectoral
analysis and medium-term planning and programming could, however, still be
improved. In addition, interest rate adjustments have not been sufficient to
cover the gap between agricultural on-lending rates and inflation.
49.       Completion reports on two irrigation projects (Panoco, Loan 969-ME, and
Sinaloa, Loan 970-ME) have been issued. The lessons learned from these projects,
which have been confirmed by the audits are: (a) the evaluation of irrigation
projects should consider the alternative of developing rainfed agriculture; (b) a
strong extension service is necessary for the development of agriculture; Cc)
projected agricultural production targets should be based on tested models; (d)
large civil works components require advanced preparation before appraisal; and
Ce) phasing should be considered for projects with long implementation periods.
50.       Implementation of ongoing projects is currently slow because of limited
counterpart fund availability. In addition, disbursements have lagged
substantially because of insufficient budget and because the Government's
financial control and reimbursement procedures are cumbersome. The Government,, is
reassessing some of the ongoing projects and, in cooperation with the Bank, is
reviewing the financial control procedures for simplification. Ia 1982 and 1983,
high devaluation induced the inflation and severe budgetary constraints further
slowed down execution of ongoing projects and disbursements. As indicated in
para. 22, the Bank is implementing a Special Action Program to ease budgetary
constraints and facilitate project implementation.
PART IV. TEE PROJECT
Introduction
51.       A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5014-ME) dated June 4, 1984, is being
distributed separately. The proposed project was appraised in November 1983.
Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the project and a
description of the special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations on the
proposed loan were concluded in Washington, D.C. on June 4, 1984. The Mexican
negotiating team was headed by Lic. Luis Nava Hernandez of NAFINSA, and included
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and FIRA.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
52.       In accordance vith the Goverrment's overall development plan of
promoting agricultural growth and reducing fiscal deficits, the objectives of the
proposed project  uld be to:
(a) increase agricultural productivity and production with a view to (i)
Increasing exports. (ii) Inproving food self-sufficiency, and Ciii)
increasing farm income;
(b) contnue to strengtben FI1ls intitutional framework for efficient
allocation of financial resources; and
(c) improve agricultural sector policies by reducing literest rate
subsidies and restrict them to special target groups.
53.      In order to achieve these obJectives, the proposed project would
provide:
(a) investment credit and short-term loans to farmers for crops, live-
stock and agroindustries, representing a credit line of about 21% of
FIRA's total lending program (the ptoposed loan would represent
about 8Z of the total lending program);
(b) technical assistance to farmers to enable appropriate transfer and
adoption of improved technology;
Cc) support services to continme the training of technical staff from
FIRA and participating banks and strengthen IERA's mediu- and
long-term development planning; and
Cd) policy changes for Ci) the introduction of a more reallstic
definition of subloan beneficiaries, and (ii) a gradual reduction
and eventual eldiInation of subsidized interest rates, except for
low-income farmers.
54.       The proposed project would be carried out over a four-year period, and
most project requirements. including interest rates, subproject appraisal and
supervision, preparation of investment programs, and monitoring and evaluation,
would apply to FIRA's total lending program. About 502 of loan proceeds would be
directed to low-income producers. Investment subloans to beneficiaries would, as
in the past, be based on technically and economically sound development plans, and
constitute approximately 70Z of the total credit line. Because of the increased
demand for working capital credit, incremental short-term financing would also be
provided. constituting about 3aZ of the total credit line. About 52Z of the
investment portion of the credit line would be for annual and perennial crops, 35Z
for livestock and 13% for agroindustries.
55.       Crop Lending Program.  Investment lending for crops would cover the
complete range of production types from annual to perennial cropping under rainfed
and irrigated conditions in the country. Crop investment subloans would Include a
wide diversity of loan size, type of borrower and ecological conditions. Invest-
ment items for the crop lending program would include, inter alia, land improve-



- 16 -
sent, equipment and machinery purchases, civil works construction, including
supporting infrastructure for irrigation and storage, and establishment of fruit
orchards and industrial crop plantations.
56.       Livestock Lending Program.  Of the Investment lending for livestock,
about 55% would be for beef and dual-purpose production, 15Z for dairy production,
and 30% for other livestock operations. As in the case of crop investment sub-
loans, there would be a wide diversity of loan size, type of borrower and ecologi-
cal conditions in livestock subloans. Investment items would include purchase of
breeding stock, renovation andlor establishment of pastures, construction of
buildings, fences and handling facilities and provision of water supplies.
57.       Agroindustries Lending Program.  About 13Z of FIRA's investment lending
would be to the agroindustrial sector, particularly to small- and mediumr-scale
producers. The portfolio of agroindustrial investments would continue to vary
widely, including sawmills, fisheries, feedmills  grain elevators. milk processing
plants, and slaughterhouse facilities. Hbwever, the project would not finance
marketing components of sub-projects as these would be financed under the
Agricultural Marketing Project (Loan 2262-ME).
58.    Short-term Lendlg Program.  Short-term subloans under the project would be
provided for the entire range of crop, livestock, and agroindustrial activities.
Furthermore, as a large proportion of Mexico's low income producers are unable to
take up investment loans, but do require working capital support to procure
essential cash inputs, the project would provide at least 6oz of project-financed
short-term subloans to this group.  The project would finance only incremental
short-tern lending, with incrementality defined as additional over PlLM's total
short-tern lending of the previous year (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1; draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Part 11, para. 3).
59.       Technical Assistance.  FIRA's well-run technical assistance program
would be expanded to promote the adoption of new and improved technology among
farmers and to maximilze the effectiveness of on-farm credit. Direct trainion  of
farmers would focus primarily on the transfer of new technology through FIDA's
demonstration centers and FIRA's and participating banks' technical staff visits.
The number of demonstration centers would increase from 88 to lGB at full devedLop-
ment.  Since the centers are the focal point for trafIIng farmers, the new centers
would be established in strategic locations close to major production areas.
Project financing to support the new centers would include civil works, land
improvement and development, crop and forage establishment, agricultural machinery
and equipment and livestock.
Support Services
60.       Support services provided under the project would include training of
technical staff, development of planning and progra"ming and the provision of
consultants. FIMA would continue to maintain a strong training program under the
project for its staff and technical personnel of the participating banks. The
primary focus of training would be to educate trainers through formal courses with
effective follow-up to revise course content and teaching methodology. It is
anticipated that 2UZ of the technical staff to be trained under the project would
be from FIRA, 40% from participating banks and 40X from other sources including
SAREI.



- 17 -
61.       In view of existing and predicted scarcities in lending resources, FIRA
would develop its longer-term planning to efficiently allocate available funds
within the framework of the Government's investment priorities and needs of the
sector. Priorities for investments would be viewed in terms of products, producer
groups and regions   The project would provide a total of about seven staff-months
of consultant support in monitoring and evaluation (four staff-months) and planir
ing and programming (three staff-months). The monitoring consultant would be
required to assist FIRA in simplifying the technique for gathering and computing
information, making it more readily usable for managers, and reviewing and
advising on related training procedures. The planning and programming consultant
would assist FIRA, including the training of its staff, in its in-house exercise
to strengthen its capabilities in analyzing and developing medium- and long-term
development plans -
Project Costs and Financing
62.       Project costs are estimated at US$764 million, including price
contingencies and the Bank front-end fee, of which US$520 million would be for
mediumr- and long-term lending, US$227 million for short-term lending and US$16
million for productive support.  About US$300 million, or 39Z, represents the
estimated foreign exchange component.
63.       The proposed Bank loan of US$300 million would cover the entire foreign
exchange cost. Financing to be provided by FIRA, participating banks, and the
beneficiaries would amount to 34%, 14%, and 13%, respectively. The proposed loan
would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) a Government agency
designated to borrow from the Bank, at standard terms for Mexico. The proceeds
would be transferred to FIRA as equity and NAFINSA would repay the principal
amount of the Bank loan together with interest and other charges. While this
would partly offset the erosion of FIRA's equity, FIRA is expected to suffer an
accumulated cash shortfall of US$490 million, during the project period, mainly
the result of US$442 million of foreign indebtedness falling due for repayment.
The Government has provided assurances that it will (a) require participating
banks to finance from their own funds the agreed percentages of subloans; (b)
cause participating banks to lose eligibility for subproject participation where
arrears of loans discounted by FIEA are in excess of 15%; (c) ensure that the
proceeds of the Bank loan would be transferred to FIRA as equity; and (d) provide
the necessary resources to offset FIRA's cash shortfall (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule 2, Part IB, para. 2 and Section 2.02(d); draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b); and draft Guarantee Agreement Section 2.02(a)(ii) and 2.02(c)).
Procurement
64.        Bulk purchasing under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would not
be feasible, since the agricultural lending activities would be implemented over a
four-year period, be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of farm
and ranch investment activities, and involve a large number of sub-borrowers. An
adequate selection of machinery, tractors and other agricultural equipment and
inputs is available to sub-borrowers through local and international suppliers.
As in earlier projects, FIRA would require sub-borrowers to obtain quotations from
several sources of supply, whenever practicable, for goods, civil works and
imports of breeding livestock to be financed under subloans. Vehicles and
equipment (US$1 million) for the demonstration and technical assistance programs



- 18 -
would be procured through local competitive procedures. These procedures are known
and generally acceptable to the Bank. The services of consultants to be financed
under the project would be arranged in accordance with Bank guidelines. Machinery
and equipment for agroindustries would be purchased by private producers or groups
of producers through commercial channels (draft Project Agreement, Sections
2.02(a)(ii) and 2.06)).
Disbursements
65.       All project subloans would be committed during three and one-half years,
and proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over approximately four years.
The Bank would reimburse FIRA (a) 63% of its discounts for disbursed project
subloans; and (b) 20X of the total cost of the support services component. A
special revolving account of US$30 million would be established in Bank of Mexico
to assist in project implementation and facilitate disbursements. Disbursements
against statements of expenditures under FIRA loans have been satisfactory. As
the proposed project would be a continuation of the Bank's support to FIRA's lend-
ing program, the Bank would retroactively finance subloans discounted by FLRA
after full disbursement of the ongoing seventh loan, to a maximum of US$20 mil-
lion, provided that these subloans are in compliance with the conditions of the
proposed loan. The four-year disbursement period is based on the Bank's experi-
ence with FLRA over seven credit projects. Through six projects, FIRA has
disbursed on time or ahead of appraisal estimates, consistently above the regional
average for credit projects. The seventh project, which was appraised for
completion within 3 years, is expected to be completed in 3 112 years.
Project Execution
66.       FIRA would be responsible for project execution and would channel funds
through participating public and commercial banks. FIRA has established a good
reputation for its organization and technical competence through seven previous
Bank-financed projects. The proposed project would continue to support FDRA's
institution building by strengthening its delivery of technical assistance,
development planning, and its monitoring and evaluation capabilities for measuring
the impact of its lending.
Sublending Procedures
67.       Beneficiary Categories.  Currently, agricultural producers are
classified for credit purposes in three groups: (a) low-income producers whose
principal income is derived from farming: their total annual income, including
income from other sources, should be less than 1,000 times the relevant regional
minimum daily rural wage; (b) medium-income producers whose total annual income is
between 1,000 and 3,000 times the minimum daily rural wage; and (c) other
producers whose total annual income is in excess of the upper limit for medium-
income producers. Using the above income thresholds, the percentage of farmers
included in the low-income producers category is high, embracing approximately 78%
of the farmers throughout the country. As low-income producers would continue to
receive an interest rate subsidy, it is necessary to ensure that this category
would include only the poorest farmers, so that the total cost of this subsidy
would fall within the Government's proposed overall limit for agricultural
subsidies. As a part of the General Interest Rate Agreement, a study of
beneficiary categories would be carried out, by mid-January 1985, to form the
basis for a revised definition after discussion with the Bank (draft General
Interest Rate Agreement, Section 3.02(iii)).



- 19 -
68.       Interest Rate Structure.  The Government's interest rate policy for
agriculture, which is designed to spur investments and assist low-income
producers, carries a high level of subsidy for certain groups of beneficiaries.
Both the commercial and public banks adhere to the same on-lending rate structure,
differentiated into the three categories by income groups as outlined above. The
rates are linked to ACF and adjusted periodically. Currently the on-lending rates
for medium- and long-term investment credit are: (a) low-income producers, 27.5%;
(b) mediur-income producers, 36%; and (c) commercial producers, 62%, with a
preferential rate of 45.5X if they produce -basic products.' Where the credit is
short-term, 1% is added to each of the above rates. Credit for agroindustrial
purposes attracts another 0.5%. Agricultural credit rates became strongly
negative in 1982 and 1983, as inflation was 99Z and 81% respectively. The 1984
inflation rate is projected in the range of 5oz to 60% and is expected to decline
to about 25% in 1985 and further down thereafter. The current level of interest
rate subsidies, as measured by the difference between ACF and the nominal rate
charged to ultimate borrowers, amounts to about 50Z for lou-income producers, 35%
for mediumr-income producers and 17% for commercial producers of 'basic products".
Interest rates are positive for other commercial producers. The Government is
aware of the distortions and risks associated with negative real lending rates,
including (a) artificial escalation of the effective demand for credit; (b)
erosion of the capital base of the lending institutions; (c) misallocation of
resources; and (d) increase in the substitution of funds at the producer and
institution levels. However, the Government maintains that it would be
undesirable to raise aU agricultural lending rates to the level where they would
be positive in real terms, as in periods of high inflation, that would place an
intolerable burden on the cash flow of borrowers of term loans and deprive the
Government of one of the few instruments it has available to assist low-income
farmers through interest rate subsidies.
69.          The Bank and the Government have negotiated a General Interest Rate
Agreement covering the ongoing credit-related projects financed by the Bank in
various sectors. This Agreement provides for the gradual adjustment of existing
interest rates so as to reduce subsidies and move towards positive rates. It will
replace the existing interest rate covenants under several Bank loans and will
provide a conceptual uniformity and a structured operational framework for policy
dialogue. Under the General Interest Rate Agreement, the Government and the Bank
will consult periodically on the accounting for interest rate subsidies and to
correct any future distortions in the interest rates that may result from
unforeseen changes in the economy.  The applicable interest rates for agricultural
credit included in the Agreement would be variable and would progressively
increase as a percentage of ACF as shown below. With the ACF expected to range
close to inflation levels during the project period, and with interest rates
moving progressively towards positive real levels, FIRA would earn operating
profits sufficient to slow down decapitalization in the short term, and to avoid
it in due course. As a result, a major source of Government subsidy outlays would
be progressively reduced.



- 20 -
Structure and Adjustment of Onlending Interest Rates by
Category of Producers for Medium- and Long-Term Subloans4/
Category of Producers
Low         Medium               Commercial
Revision Dates             Income       Income       Basic Products5/    Other
Rates as a Percentage of ACF6/ /
July 1, 1984                 50           67               85              ACF+2
October 1, 1984              60           80               85              ACF+2
January 1, 1985              65           85               90              ACF+2
July 1, 1985                 67           87               95              ACF+2
January 1, 1986              70           90               ACF             ACF+2
July 1, 1986                 75           95               ACF            ACF+2
January 1, 1987              80          ACF+1             ACF+1           ACF+2
70.       As a part of the General Interest Rate Agreement, the appropriateness of
the ACF as a central reference rate would be reviewed in a special technical study
that will be one of the bases for consultation in February 1985. Interest rates
will conform to the rates stipulated in the General Interest Rate Agreement (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Part I B, para. 6 and draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.05).
71.       Currently, participating banks are allowed a discount margin between the
or-lending rate to the sub-borrower and that paid to FIRA, ranging from 2X to
6.5Z. This margin, which is currently adequate, vill be reviewed together with
interest rates every six months. Margins allowed to the participating banks would
require discussion and agreement with the Bank before revision (draft Project
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part IB, para. 6).
72.       Subloan Appraisal and Supervision.  Over the years, FIRA has developed
sound subloan apprais.; and supervision procedures. Subloans would be evaluated
and approved by FIRA and participating bank technicians subject to FIRA's approval
for subloans above prescribed limit. Under the proposed project, FIRA would be
required to obtain prior approval from the Bank for project subloans in excess of
4/ For short-term subloans, an additional 2% would be added to the
equivalent nominal rates and an additional 1Z for all agroindusrrial
subloans.
5/ Basic products for Bank financed projects would only include maize,
Wheat, sorghum, beans and rice.
61 Rates as a percentage of ACF, or as ACF plus additional points.



- 21 -
US$800,000 equivalent, which also applies to individual subloans resulting from
group activity.  No subloan would be made for on-farm investment if the amount of
the proposed subloan, together with the aggregate amount outstanding under
previous FIRA-financed subloans to such a borrower, exceed Mex$ 30 million
(US$187,500).  FIRA's recently introduced Operating Regulations and Procedures
Manual provides the guidelines. Assurances have been obtained that FIRA will
adhere to the above subloan appraisal and supervision procedures (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.04 and Schedule 2, Part IB para. 4).
Reporting Requirements
73.       FIRA has developed an efficient system of timely reporting to the Bank.
Quarterly progress reports summarizing project performance, subloan disbursements
by categories and FIRA rediscounts are routinely submitted to the Bank no later
than 60 days after the end of each quarter. Detailed reports are prepared semi-
annually and submitted to the Bank no later than three months after the end of
each six-month period. FIRA would continue to adhere to Bank reporting require-
ments and to submit a Project Completion Report within 12 months of the Closing
Date.
Accounts and Audit
74.       FIRA has consistently presented timely annual audited accounts.  The
accounting system of FIRA trust funds is satisfactory. FIRA would maintain
separate project records, as established for the ongoing Seventh Credit Project.
FIRA's accounts have been audited during recent years by external auditors, and
all audit reports of its accounts have been unqualified. An audit, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be made of the accounts, statements of expenditures submitted
to the Bank, and financial statements of FIRA for each fiscal year. The audit
would be in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied by
independent and qualified auditors appointed by the Controller GeneraJl and the
Bank of Mexico. Certified copies of the statements audited, together with the
report of the auditors, which would also comment on the SOEs, would be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
Adequate accounts and records would also be maintained within all the participat-
ing banks so as to identify all transactions pertaining to FlTA rediscounted
subloans.
Project Benefits
75.        It is projected that 105,000 families, or about 580,000 beneficiaries,
would benefit directly from the project. Secondary benefits would also accrue
from processing and agricultural service activities. At full development, it is
estimated that, based on previous experience, annual incremental production of
basic crops (maize, beans, wheat, rice and sorghum) would increase by about 0.9
million metric tons; cotton, soybeans, and safflower by 100,000 tons; milk by 16
million liters, beef and pork by 120,000 tons, and eggs by 110,000 tons. The
incremental production of basic crops alone would amount to foreign exchange
savings of about US$140 million per annum at full development. Likewise,
increased production of export crops would contribute to annual foreign exchange
earnings in excess of the above savings on incremental basic crops. The project
would cause an increase of net cash income to beneficiaries. Most investment



- 22 -
plans are expected to have a financial rate of return in the range of 18% to 35%,
with economic rates of return ranging from 19X to over 100%. The economic rates
of return are higher because domestic producer prices for several products are
below border price levels.   This is consistent with findings of the completion
reports of the Fifth and Sixth Credit Projects.
76.       The project would assist institution building.  Strengthening FIRA's
analytical and medium- and long-term planning capabilities would allow a better
allocation of investment resources over the longer term. Expanded technical
assistance would emphasize the promotion and adoption by farmers of available
improved technologies. Further support to the Monitoring and Evaluation Division
would increase FIRA's capabilities to measure impact needs, including the adoption
rate of available technology.
Project Risks
77.       Since FIRA is a reasonably efficient and mature institution, the project
presents no special risk in terms of the technical and financial soundness of
various investment opportunities that would be financed under the program. The
main risk would be that political pressures would impede progress in eliminating
interest rate subsidies, especially in case of a resurgence of inflation causing a
further deterioration of FIRM's financial position, a continued drain on the
Government budget resources, and a continued misallocation of production factors.
However, the Government has given assurances that it would adhere to the General
Interest Rate Agreement, and thus significantly reduce these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS OF AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreemer.c between the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A.,
the draft Guarantee Agreement and draft General Interest Rate Agreement between
the United l.exican States and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between Bank
of Mexico and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
79.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV of this
Report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 4, 1984



- 23-
Annex I
TASLE 3.                                  Page 1  of 5
_  CIAL , 3.Icarms Da  3E
MEAL                                               C -LQM   ur . L SE 
glOST                   OWSr X       Z2IlIL) lb
I9go   90k        XT_              E                IlL~ 
TOTAL                            1912.5     vr1 5      19J7_>             _-
VCl[sESLZCE_~         ~~    ~~~~~ MXJOL_ S%MM- 971k}r _
< - 3w_0 1_ zz5o_0 _Odl~9.W             9701b       '         "   _gow  &CA&D            E.Xt
AGLQXA                           laLWv      976-       978.-3
MI =RANO cBL &ITTALEST)          786.0      11S_O0     1646&0           1_
lmm - WmL  s
POFULAXT.0,.NID-IEAE TCUSA})  37030    3116-0   T715.0                     _
D  POPULAMMM C  IF TOTAL)         30.8        "-a50      67.3            .3.
-~~~P0~?~   Q lEBS0CLL)                                210  _ 
POPOLAXXII IXIFLZ   W  CWTil
SmLrtomw rormiKmm CKMLJ~~              z2os
ra uATG
PM si.                          18.I      Z5_9         35.2             33..
PEA 5U. I. AGI. LMAN           37-L        32...      709             93.                      57i-
EOPCLAXIISaL AGE 5IM-MUSE 6L)
a1l_ Ils                       35.0        30.5       ;.7              33.1                    3
65  AOD ^&WE                     3.4        3-5         3.              41                        -
-   P0LAZiU   lOD. am  cl)
TOTAL                            3.0        3.z         3.0o            2. 3
9Qana                              8.7                  4.Z i  2         .7 
CRSDE ALIO  RATE CPIM MICS)       '5.'       43.6        3.lb.           31-3                    -25.
CR11E OEAM  WX CLT(P  ThJ         12.2        9_7         7J_             8.1                      9.1
ASS Wc_ZoUs RiTE                   3.3        3.'         2!.             2.o 0-7
FARLI PLAI1MIG
3COZ0RS. AM"AL (OmEs)                       25.1     L11430
US C;)                            ...OF...t8..o _-- Z5_1  3 _
_OO  mm  noiz
inn OF EPO  3m. PE CAnTA
(m69.-n.lO)                       97.0       LO_O0      109.0            113.0                   106._
PMR CAP= S1iL OF
CALXES CZ OF MZ44MEMESI)        L17.0      11l_O      121.0           L11.3                    129.6
PRSraLlS (CRAMS PMR 041)        10.0        b5.0       746-0            07.9                    9
IT  :IC  A WIAL AD PULSE       29..0       27.0       27.0_            36.1                    36.b
-D (ACES 1-4) 011T3 AE            1._l                    3.5            353                      10.-
L1FE EXECT_ AX SIM  t(TEAS)       57.0        613        6S_6            66.6                     67.2
lASXr POT. LAME (PER Td00S)       91S1       73.6        5.4             6t_b6                    71.n
A.S To SAFE "TM (hOt)
TOAL                            Z3.t5       49.01d    53.014            b6._
Mtn"S                             __        6tgFd-    bl_,C/4 7d76__
_RAL_                                       21.07w     3L.07;            6.-
ACCESS 10 SXCA  DXS1ISAL
(Z t  PruLArZoS)
WtOAL                             __        37_Wd      3.01/d          536-_
URM                                _        b0Old      50-1/4           69._
fRAJ.                             _.        60d/       13.0l/d         29.8
PoPuLAflM PER PYSZCIa.           M180.     t1l100      126O 0.0         1776.0                  1096.8
P0l. Pm sWrSI PS                36500 3630.  1660.0    L420.0/e.        1012.                    762.5
M08 PM diSEITAL MM
TOTAL                           390.O      970.0       70.0/1          6?77.0                  336.0
URSA                           570_0tf   1170.0      Loeo.o7-          667.5                   216.0
URAL                                      1370.0    ilZO_077          1P21.                      __
ADKlSIOUS PM bOsrrTrML SED          __         _.          __            Z7._                     0.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF D15180W
TOTL5                                        5_7
URa&                             5_7 -       57          _
AL                               S_Z         5.2 _.8
AVERA  ilO. OF PERSOURS/hU
TOTAL                            Z_9         Z_5
URA                              L b          _2.
MURAL                            3.4         3.2
AS. TO LECr. CZ Of :rLLD5)
TOTAL                             --        58.9
318_.                                       27.8 _ __



- 24 -                                            Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
A a L E  3%
's rc                 - s0c1^. IUlRS Dla~ 9EE;
R RN          S (e IE E E A.&VEWAE) /a
(10? RECENT :SrL9aE) lb
196Ge    I914                  L        CESA Tr CA   CAM ER
lF;-A'F-  e o e l_O  o           eo         V-Io RZ
.-C-E                  &..7      146.0       1-23.1           :0S.3                    107.2
F?n   ,7_r  _Vu.c    ;:E6_Q            103_6                    94L9
SFC 0697:  ~.;                   *-_r        "-         37.0             4Q0.                      56.5
-t'                    I'10       26.0        39-0             3L4                      63-4
F~A1.                   5.0       17;S0       34.0             4.2                      .a9
o^rI  or sEcflWrT)           fl.A       26_         10.              34.0                     22.-
-it -&av                         .0          L'6,. e     14C              30.7                     24-7
SO^EICA9                         13.!)       14.0       1*_ 5               .7                     22.1
AD-L-         R-7 fC"              4s6-        7-4_2      tl:_,             795                      69.7
r     W  ^as'7plpAD PIP            12-_        24_1       466lIc            45.6                    52_9
RADr5: aI' RS'T-s  SAD Par         890        Z7.3_7      95..'            ZZL8Z                    165S5
. AE7rr EWSlTW!8SAID pOP           L-7.S       5S_5      flntL             103                      t24.2
EFP6SPER . -rm       CVERM.
. TsEREr _1 C1qrnsIo
PER  RCSA%   VATrrTs              73.1          -        64. 51            64.1                     96.3
.--X  A5SC8. A    ACA               9.8         s_e9                                                  249
LABR  POIN
TOTAL LARt : A   C7H=) 1S                   1:.0       209.e
r-ALE COCRCEIM                   15_2        17S.       19_t              24.8                     34.5
%=1CCL R!E rnRCF-.)             55_1        6.5.2      35_6              3t13                     40L
,SD75T9  (P27EaCE                19.35       229       25_8              2539                    23.6
1ICrcA7LIL XA%  (wERCFWrl
. AL                             V-0        2M.e        29_2              3t.3                     42.0
-ALE                             S1.1        .7.'       46.7              69.8                     5SS_
_0.2      101         It6              1r_e8                    291
'.-oDsg3  OEP`EU! RArIO             1_6         1_T        1.6                                        09
Dia    1910tI90IOU1
-RMEST OF PRTVAIE Ir3CE
cF.W_rtED 3
9r0EsT S o         t               _.           _           .               _x_s
!ICWr, -W  OF 3MSENOLOS          61.Iib     6iO 507       7.7__
_-aR'EST lO  OF UH5ENHOUS         3._7i;      3.           97i              - -                      --
LOIEST 62 OrF H1OCSEILDS          9_87ii      9.9        9.97c              _
V5rT111AT  ABSLTS POVERT  IC!E
LVEL fLSS PeR CAPITA)
rRILES                   .         _~~~~~. ..                2,t89.8
RtMIL            --          -           -            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~186.3
-CTL-A7m RM4TT7r POVERIT r1mrE
LEM  (t_S5 P" CAPITA)
its.   ..                                               6710             519.8                       __
RrRAL                               .           _       71.0             372.1                    409.0
EYAr-mn  POP. BEMOW ANSOI:TE
POtERT! I:EG- tElL  (Z)
mA                                  _.         _..___
PoTr AVTALAPLE
'Wr AP-LICAKLE
307 ES
la  The xrop averates for e-ch Indfcator are populattoSwlgbted art:Ietlc me. Coverne of cantrles amon tbe
indicators depends an a.tlablIlcy of data ad  s nrt calfors.
/b  rule*s ot%er4uqe noted. Data for 19t4  refer to a_  year bet ee5 105 and 1961: 'ata for t970 betvee 1969 aod
1971; and data for tno, Recent Est1tre~ bertee 1979 and 1981t
le  1977: Id Served fron water suply .ad ser e: fe 1974: If 1962: I  1976; /b 1963.
Fy t983



25                                                                Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
~~a  - a.M. agcaa~d.%W W.M- 
cm-     ur-um   a  a.  C  -  a.W.?                             aagt.    . a                                   .a   a               
at..          -    -X           -i                  --               -                  - astisOg. a   -t.... -  -                  . a.. 
ag. s_ f  w           _  r e          O     _-.  _..   a   eta.                  -  _ .         _ .t _ , 
Sr  _a.  _~  - _~  _  -   _.  _we  _  - -ama         a rg    a.   _                          a.  a. a. a  a.. b
-   ____                 -r- -s                                                       eta_a.  . _ _ c-._-_ _ _               a    _.0       .
__            aa         .            a      g          .     - a           _      a  .  a    12_y         -  a  _  -   _.   a. 
_ae   . ..         -        __ _  ___  -  a.           a.           -a.  _a -_ sa  a a       --    m                                a       , 
_lma - _s                                                         *O t_
-   -~~    .-                                                          e~~~~!~2tg  - et.i                  -   be  a"ft
-    t a.                           __a    __ __.   -_ _ _ _t   _  m.  m a  a
ma -e  .                                          __  _. a  , _..  _.  -  _. _ __                                                     ~ l. . _
a _a~  _m  _ _  _   _t.  _~   -                 e t         .           _         .~       _ta  -   a.             aaa                .a
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  -__-            _. _a_ ft.
r.           zet        - al t.          _.a.a a           ain                      u-.L  a.         a.tv         a     b          e w Q y _
a. ~ ~       ~         ~        ~ ~ ~ z _-                      _ .a_. _.r..        __ _    j  .                      al 
_ _           a...  -D= _.           - .-   gal    __                             psa  _  _.   D  _  at  _s a.   __ _s .
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~a _                                                 as_ _tat a_ __. -t  _. __a _._
w_ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ? _an   inc .- .e                a .        _.a___-
a  a.. - a.sI - _ - e.
afn  5I    a   -   -. aS...   flae -  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~..L
me                                       .  ..... .                          - U.          .t             -a ..--a a                 avs
_ _~~~~~~~~~~-_:.-S= _  _., ._   _ 
- - a.a   a.  a.wet - ama.         .. a-W.a  a
.a~ u-n    -           - e.                           __la                  __e     _   _ za       _   _ _ t_=   _, -  -  a  -            _1
g  a. .             -  -         .  a".k._   a_r_.U..                        aa.aa    ata   ea
__ ts.n.. _  _a-s _                  .       -   -                           -. a            -     -  - t_w4- _-         %.-  
_.c   -f _             _t.    ..   _  _   -  ?.              _         C_ gais    ..                   .t    __r                     a_
-          a.s..s _a= a       . c _        .       _  _,                                                  . __._..
O n    ama.          -  a.   -   -   -                              -         I1 _            _ - -  _- -1 -             -_ _ -
-1- -  a..  ataa   a..   -                                          '    -.    . -  rw  bwM.
a. a    e  a  - -aS  - It.   . a                dc ia.  a                                                   C L, 
_ -    -_ _. =- _ _            .    .       ..                 ____W _     _  _  _ _ _ :__
_|_~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                  _a  _ . w _p X-_ _
-       -     -   -            at   5.   Uc    -                                  am.lae - ati       _ rw    __sa. tgt _-    _      a         a
a.ae  a.~~~~ -~ _as   -, a    ., a U _sge  V.a                  _         a             ,.a         _tm    _.   _a~   -2
, -_   :  _ _                                                 _ _   _i_          t_  w   _M- __                  _
- --   a   -      -    aW. I -%   a    a. a      -                     - __ __ _ __
__ r.  ._ t-sa.  ---1-                                                                            .do..   -- -    "     t    U            L. _ _-
_a~a _ ... ;,  c.. -  Xe. v.a  -  a e                                                                                          g
.  .     ~.g ft-                    21        S   -.-                         ....at                 a     .      a.a  
_.  .e _.    . __:   a.                                                  sam.   _   a _     - _U -     a _-                   . _
.--, _.    _a.   n _   _ _a._ W            _    __- -     * n               _ _           _     _ --
Ueuc.._  ~g.eg    - _..mt.m  _a..a                       .s'       _    _    .    a s   _e         .  -   -:  _        a.   a.  na._ 
de-P-. S                        *_ a                   - --  .                    -
a...       : S.c    -          t         -     a4  .     a. _- M                                  a ..k _g.   e                 a _
_e _  _           -        - _  t              .fa t ..... .....c                                - U......................  .a _  'a aE   -e.. _   _ _ *  -_ s            
_   st _         ;a._    .--. ....                                                      - et'. a                                     _. .. a--faa   t  .
:_ a-_ J__.a. .e...............-... a  met ga              .                  s -_--__ _..___D ___
a.  _.  _  -   -        .  -  a   a.. _.   a.{ ae  a,                     _          .      _a   _       sa     m-        .    -_. 
a_    _. *.e  a  C                                                           ta.a         a                  _ eSa   ala.   mae a
_  _a  a...   wus _r  -|  _. a ga   -ram                                        a.am, sezs       le_  _.tn :_Ice                   ~      as
_is.                                       _nas _ .  ___.    _e                                                 -_ _.       SI S.  **    _ ____a a__ 
ea. _        -    _.  a i  ___.  w    _  a_                              _                  __.-   a   a  at_    .           -_        *-_ a. 
*    ~         ~~ _ses. _        I.   -  -etn.. _   _ _   _     at   giet P,a _.  U__1                .     _      -      __   d          __ _
~~~~~~~~~~W _acnt                                                          fl_s, iil ____ ____- ~t *_t       : I
_-_t :  -   ue-2...      - ;r      '    a    fe=  am. t-                        2's-" *a'-~     I-        s.ue.t ' - te e.  a  '- tt,t
5.:             - -ru -l                                                           -  n___ .er _s.P_e_   _ c,  .ss . _  -_ r_  __
_t  a fl..          h_m__                                                            e . L_          - __   _d. net  t.r_  __,        - t_  *_ u Ia.
:s  __ _a _...         _   _.   m- .e.- .. -e      - .*t-..u: b-g.. _m.  _. h  g-                                  ,1  e|.t _.   0s _  ns_
--     __..       _  tat        s.    *r_e .    aSS_    aS*              *      -_Ul -      _t         . *  It       sm    
_t7    =- s               c.  Cts.  Ca  _st     gs  __ _..               S          a-i  t55.1 w_ _           rx_ ._  -* a_             . _
e_e   _  _              _.    _          l  |_       % w   ta4| -  af. -e r_S~ __r%
_. - _m           a.         _ I. .g5_.. - 2 _. _ ;_9s  2_. a *_a 
_. a-ma a             ta a-m   a tet__S ._ _      t._ g.e_ .ss  g.              fa            q             etW ra..   _.  a_g
-- a.S*m   _..  mesa                  ch.. __an. meze                               mewl_  at     flua.  bh<|    _t    -__"_W
_e._ az^ _a          _a    a a-l.. _St_ at1$ a.  _..                   _      _      a.  za. Sn_ts a ;_  a.f
_t.-  -  _.   _.             eta c   _m~.n  _a  _.                                 ^                    _g.  It 2..-  m;    aam
*  a       ..e_u aam.-        ta.  u_  .s_ _g  __a                                               - ,a  _as- 9m                   e    t s
_  *.  _       .  me-C _   li a.1   __,   a.                                      - _  gnct.   s.a           - nu         a      tet
a- ,e-e,    '---*- Scseam   .                  ag.      a              _          a  mS.t       ela        .      a.-.         set.e  -
ua_  - i-r t    e,a,    . si _ga  _sin  *_ _  _                                ..u.         _. _ma  a  a_o_l.                 t     a    a
a9.   _  _l_.--          -ets  m.ase   e* .o                                                     e.    a       .



-_5                                                                   *K  _
_ of5
-  z           Er  -                 G    m
Z___   -                                                                                             e  W   <_ ._   3
10:    5:5L         I L- 1CL 1g    iqs   1-  ,O                   5.i:l 191-i 1351|15           Ge1           15    5    .
X: *s orLt                      3NO      .v P    LC so . s 1      ._t1
,FM=   =   'X:6 'L1  ML    M.-C mtS :-K   W=                                                                             ~               ZW-s          I-  =  ,- 
-E q;      19uj7                   -_:L   -IL     -_    L_U   -C  _f -L -1   -7   -'_b   -               -             -      -           -_-   LU   -         -
 51 't WII                         am      -3.c5       =.M _    . 2  r_z   =.   M_u  91,               LaS   Ma        U o                7Lb   ha?   ML    17U
-_.                                 T so -  -L%   -D  : L- -_        to1F   mm3  1L6   GAS1 -" -                              -           -LU    L.9
3NUT"W                    OLM~.  uaw9  a..  U'       Cie   Z.=   Ra    mm1  xu.                LU1   La   -5.~    7 6             .~%  -4:6!  bA 
-V. 30:u5                               :k.Ib  GLO   6La -_6 12 D. :3                     * 1;   16.                    ao sLr  7.L  1.- za- .--
*V RC--             ' iC-E :-:- I.aS  -                 -'.1   -La     J. s.   -6C ;;:-;97              1      XL     Lf    ..            --   -:.-.  -J.7   -La'r
aL-        e6 'O  a    u.n   2L ::.5-                     ~.S    -L 1_6 3  __
--F:R ;                   ;          ':E ;w:                                             F                            :1A :: es   =  :- 
is    l    =~    _ .as -       L n
=:x$DT~~~~~~~~~~~~Z                    LIZ F_;j  3:-        !W ;@        Ina ::n  1; 2|
b= i3.                              = _      7.   _      K= 3. _=                  so    _1    Z
:V.6r5-F-                         =.   5=    2678   2C%-   ---    aN       Q     =2'  P.T
ftGL4EP                              ;:ow        uw :  r         LOC    Is"     =n    vt
mu   "D19                                 121    -      '5:    t      [|uC     X    g.:3
SowEE;  :.                                                      Ml  mm    Om    -.M    MWq s q
-= VW=  .;06:.'
--!W   5E   1                      3a97    62 3.   U k.  1t1o.    5.6   M%    .-" 134
833 62W1115 ^1 12~e.   266.   LILa   ~Ut 742                                      16623162
-.   -gm 1Om.                                    M"53     1         a       V-L: s.   761W  m
MMIW=   ~         ~        t      ::"M WV FP_12 (Z
fJEES 1f f                 ;         a           n_'   r 91 =  S3D.=          -2          Z
avow  9sm              vLII1   L:    IM   -4.6   -LZ   -L=       "2    L                  s13
=-g Mar"    ILS'   V* 1                    1.93  ILkt   6W    7J9   7.3  LLa
39157.611                          -,,   -_.2   -1.  -14_S 1.76    .b  _LU,  -hA    L1R _L4
au5a71 OF -OM1                                                                                                             3151416.x
iNU7.6 MO                            -    1.41 .44M   &2.   91.3                                                             LbV
J   J S              U  I          .     2     LSC  3*.1  ;5.WS                                                            'a'
Odo    * OE-B                              :f   7LIO  18&9=S                                                                  4
6115 M  Q                            .     4.2W  _  7617T  zZ-q  biLb                                                        1.V.
m.97W                               .     3.6  197.4   ?-a.6    2.4                                                         ILa
_s" 16r,x 3                                      M.2   2.4w  16.S                                                           s.3
_3SNMia  a"                                              Iar lug=sL
3161                      .     291  16.5  tn&15.111
1_6E.                                -   SILW  1_1.3  _1?  -- EIr                              7.                      f
Tom mu15811                                                     a? 1   =Z  =V                                               NM4   33 15    I 
nK61T21                             4.97   L.                   4.1   5.5                                              is            ;      ;S         2.4
NsU                                 2."   6.                   2L.2:   5.Is                LW                 13. 297                          1171   13.6
615155                              L I   ALY!                 U.S   37.6                  LI9.4   11.21                                        =2.II  NO6.4
12:E PUT 1cn *I73Il    <5315  0225  n   UJU     I.
n  ru  ulai
v     39.51533N1 fo  RIm. I       3          L aI   33132 M M. gmu&
.6      I.  E 16*
mu  _ 5nEv s*ma r mm noi  mn a
SUPE5 5W.  tOIS   a FIWM_ IF TK .K f I= g IFf ESaW
_1v



'mIl   II1 l'!RI                 I
I    .
i   f I  qWlgf !#i0I 0                                  1111I
E~~~~ ~                                          jI  i    llf#|^ 
t.   |   1  R2i125^i""~~~~~~~ft|  1                                                     gi;g R;2         
1~~~~~~~ 'BvwRa       'z3b:E" 5                                               1   
*~ ~       X    I                         I         e    0  i                 1
1~~~~                                           ii0gi;B;i   5,             I-i|IW^ t    '2    E;;1Xl



- 28 -
AEXII
I FSeaLoTf 2
TIE STAIUS OF BAN GROUIP OPERATIONS IN EMCOl/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan No.   Year      Borrower     Purpose                 Amount Less   Undi;-
Cancellations   barsed
53 Loans Fully Disbursed             2,887.1
1111-5     1975      NAFINSA      Irrigation                  50.0        6.6
1186       1975      BANOBRAS     water Supply                40.0        3.1
1553-5     1978      NAFINSA      Agriltre                    56.0        7.1
1643-5     1979      NAFINSA      Small-scae Agri.           60.0        14.7
1671       1979      BANOBRAS     Highways                   120.0       24.5
1686-5     1979      FERTIMEX     Industry                   80.0         1.7
and NAFINSA
17G6-5     1979      NAINSArriatio                           92.0        58.2
1712-5     1980      NAFINSA      Industry                   175.0       47.4
1820-5     1980      NAFINSA      Small and Medium.
Scale Ming               40.0        30.0
1855-5     1980      NAINSA       Irration                   160.0      151.3
1881       1981      NAFINSA      Small and Medium.          100.0       10.9
Scale Industry
1891-5     1981      NAFINSA      Agricultural Credit        325.0       92.5
1908       1981      NAFIsA       Irratio                     23.0       10.1
1913       1981      BANOBRAS     water Supply               125.0       92.4
129        1981      BANOBRAS     Railways                   150.0       71.9
1945       1981      NkFINSA      Rainfed Agriclture         280.0      176.2
1964       19B1      BANPESCA     Port Development            14.0       11.6
1990       1981      RANOBRAS     Urban Development II       164.0      126.6
2042       1982      NAFINSA      Technical Training         90.0        26.7
2043       1982      NAFINSA      Itegrated Rural
Development             175.0       150.9
2100       1982      NAFINSA      Iration Rehab II           180.0      177.3
2142       1982      NAFINSA      Capital Goods
Industry                152.3       127.5
2154       1982      NAPINSA      Pollution Control          60.0        56.7
2191       1983      NAFINSA      San Fernando Agri.         138.4      133.7
2194       1983      BANOBRAS     Urban Engineering           9.2         7.6
2262       1983      NAFINS       Agri. Marketing            115.0      104.0
2281       1983      BAJOBRAS     Third Water Supply         100.3      100.0
2325       1983      NAFINSA      Third Small Medium
Industry                175.0       157.1
2331       1983      BANCOMEIT    Export Development         350.0      349.1
TOTAL                        6 486.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank      1,150.4
Total now outstanding                     5,335.9
Amount sold  -               92.3
of which has been repaid     92.3             0.0
Total now held by BankZ/                  5,335.9
Total undisbursed                                     2,327.4
11 The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



290
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                           USS Million
Year     Obligor                    Type of Business        Loan  Equity   Total
1955/59   IndustrLas Perfect
Clrcle, S.A. 1/           ndustrial Equipment    0.8              0.8
1958      Bristol de MeXico, S.A.1/ A-C. Engine Overbaul    0.5        -      0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S.A.1/        Twist Drills             0.3      -      0.3
I962/65/ Compazia Fundidora Fierro y
66/68     Acero de Monterrey, S.A. Steel                    2.3    2L.4    23.7
1963      Thbos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A.,/           Steel                    0.9     0.1     1.0
1963      QLunica del Rey, S.A. 11    Sodlum Sulphate         0.7      -      0.7
1964/66   Industria del Hierro,
S.A. 1                   Constructlon Equipment  -        2.0     2.0
1970     Minera de Norte, S.A.if   Iron Ore mining            1.5      -      1.5
1971      Celanese  exican,s. S_f11  Textlles                12.0      -     LZ.O
1972      Promorora de Papel Perior
dico, S.A. de C.V.1/     Pulp and Paper           2/              2/
1973179   Cemento Veracruz, S.A.    Cement                   1S.9      -     ls.9
1974/81   Cancun Aristos Hotel       Tourism                  1.0     0.3     1.3
1975/78   Me3inox, S.A.              Steel                   12.0     3.2    15.2
1978/81/
83      Papeles Ponderosa. S.A.   Pulp and Paper           10.7     5.0    15.7
1978      Tereftalatos Mexieanos,
S.A.                     Petrochemcals           I9.0     -      19.0
1979/83   Cementos Tolteca, S.A.3/   Cement                 168.0    8.0   176.0
1979/81   Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, 5.A.             Tourlsm                  -       3.1     3.1
1979      Conductores Monterrey,     Electrical Wire
S.A. 3                     and Cable             is.0     -      18.0
1980      Industrias Resistol, S.A.3/Particleboard           25.0      -     25.0
1980      Vidrio Plan de
Mexico, S-A.3/           Flat Glass             114.9      -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles.
S.A. de C.V.3/           Mining                 110.0      -    110.0
1981      Celulosicos Centauro,
S.A.3/                   Pulp and Paper          59.5      -     59.5
1981      Corporacion Agrioindus-
trial, S.A.              Agri-Business           11.3     3.0    14.3
1983      Capital Goods Facility     Capital Goods
Financing           100.0      -    100.0
Total Gross Commitments                           684.3   46.1   730.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment       520.6   22.2  542.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 163.7    23.9   187.6
Total Undlsbursed (including participants)        135.8     6.9   142.7
1/        Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2,        US$25,000.
Gross Commitment including amounts sold to participants.
A US4.64 millon operation with METALSA for auto chassis manufacture is
pending signature. .



- 30 -
Annex 3
MEXICO
EIGHTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRDJECT
SuPPLEMENrARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.  Titetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: about 6 months
(b) Project prepard by: FIRA
(c) First preparation mission: December 1982
(d) Appraisal Mission: November 1983
(e) Negotiations completed: June 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1984
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a)  (i) short-term lending would be incremental; and (ii) at least 60Z
of the project financed short-ternm loans would be allocated to
low-income producers (para. 58);
(b)  (i) participating banks would lose their eligibility for subproject
participation where arrears of loans made by each participating
bank and discounted by FDRA are in excess of 15%; (ii) the proceeds
of the Bank Loan would be transferred to FIRA as equity;
and (iii) the Government would provide the necessary resources to
offset FIRA's cash shortfall (para. 63);
(c) interest rates would conform to the rates stipulated in the General
Interest Rate Agreement (para. 70).



r 
Po/ cS f i c.-;-*,  . <  .-. Gu/ 
oce-                               i0\       u G  *     .(Mx  
MEXICO.                               -f      a  bN5'                     c      J                \
Di.Mlmhfi    aF FIRA Offc       F          iT, XtC-< j
Reg l Off 9v = , _ v e ~~s c )/* - _ll-kAN EOO
_Re..__ Offi -tv;                                                                                                  t| z 
s'tE3E cf,f-<   @;                                                                                                                a,  
_ 110' 00' 10g0' | l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






