Document of
The World Bank
I'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8926
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EIGHTH AGRIUCLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2454-ME)
AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2610-ME)
JULY 25, 1990
Agrlculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This docmen$ has a reficted dsbtribo ad ay be used by nden    y in de pearinam i of
er o      dudes. Id se be                            wboeWodd Ilank _,o



ABBREVTATIONS
ACF/CPP    Average Cost of Funds index published by Bank of Mexico
BANXICO    Mexican Central Bank
BANRURAL   National Rural Credit Bank
CETES      28-day Treasury Bill Interest Rate
CPI        Consumer Price Index
CONASUPO   National Commission for Distribution of Basic Food
FEFA       Trust Fund for Investment Credits
FEGA       Trust Fund for Agricultural Insurance and Technical Assistance
FIRA       Agricultural Trust Fund comprised of FONDO, FEFA, FEGA and
FOPESCA
FONDO      Trust Fund for Working Credits
GIRA       General Interest Rate Agreement
GOM        Government of Mexico
IDB        InterAmerican Development Bank
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank)
LIPIPBI    Low Income Producer
MIP/PIH    Medium Income Producer
OTP        Other Producer
PCR        Project Completion Report
SAM        Government-sponsored Mexican Food Program
SAP        Special Action Program
SHCP       Finance Ministry/Secretarin de Hacienda, de Credito Publico



FOR02 OMFCIALUS ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washmgton, D.C. 20433
USA.-
Of*of ice t Dtvmnsra
July 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Mexico
Eighth Ag2icultural Credit Project (Loan 2454-ME) and
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2610-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Eighth Ag-!icultural Credit Project (Loan
2454-ME) and Agricaltural Credit Project -(Loan 2610-ME)' prepared by the
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of.this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attacbment
-  Thi docunmsn  a artrictedbdtbution n may be ud bW repents ony i te efonnune 
of their ofki duts. its contenuts may not oterwie be dbicled wihout Word Bank autwoItinL



FOR OMFFICAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
XMCO
RIGHTE AND INlTRuM AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
(LOANS 2454-HE AND 2610-ME)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  .      .........................................................         i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS'S PERSPECTIVE .....1.............. 
1.  Project Identity ...................................     .....          1
2.  Background          ...............................................     1
3.  Project Objectives and Description ...................        ....      3
4.  Project Preparation and Design .....          ......................    4
5.  Project Implementation .... ...............................             5
6.  Results        ..................................................      11
7.  Institutional Performance ......        ......................3....    i
8.  Project Relationship .......         ..............................    15
PART IIs   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .. .......    17
1.  Introduction .........         ....................................    21
2.  The Role of the Bank .....................................    21
3.  The Role of the Executing Agency .......... ..          .............    22
4. Categories of Beneficiaries                     .        . .    23
5.  Project Cost and Financing ............. ..         ................    23
6.  Characteristics of the Investments and Subloans ..........     24
7.  Lessons Learned from the Project .........................    26
PART IIIs  STATISTICAL TABLES ...... *          ..............................   29
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ........................    31
2.  Project Timetable/Project Schedule ......... ..          ............    33
3.  Distribution of Loans Resources by Category
of Beneficiary ........ 4       ................................    37
4.  Project Costs by Source of Financing .....................    39
5.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ............             41
6.  Direct Benefits ........         ..................................    43
7.  Rates of Return ........         ..................................    44
8.  Support Services Component ......           .........................    45
9.  Status of Covenants .....................                    I ..      47
10.  Use of Staff Resources .......           ...........................    49
11.  Total Number of Loans Granted by FIRA ............  .......    51
12.  Weighted Intermediation Margins to Participating Banks ....    52
MAP - IBRD 11789R2
* For the sake of clarity, Loan 2610-ME, the Agricultural Credit Project,
is herlein called the Interim Agricultural Credit Project.
This document has a festricted distribution and ma be used by repients only In the performance
of their offici duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Dank authormtion.



- i.-
PROJECT COmPLETION EPORT
MEXICO
BIGTHT AND INRTEWDI AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS *
(LOANS 2454-ME AND 2610-ME)
PREFACE
1.       This document is the Project Completion Report  (PCR) for the
Eighth and Interim Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans 2454-ME and 2610-
ME).   The Interim Loan did not involve a separate appraisal process; it
only required the preparation of a President's Report as it provided
additional resources to the Mexican Government's agricultural credit system
based on the then recently fully appraised Eighth Agricultural Credit
Project.  The Guarantee, Loan and Project Agreements for Loan 2454-ME were
signed on August 8, 1984, while those for Loan 2610-ME were signed on
September 26, 1985.  These two loans were fully disbursed on January 21,
1986, and on December 22, 1987, respectively.
2.       The PCR was prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regior,
Country Department II, Agriculture Operations Division. Preparation of the
PCR was based on project files and data provided by the Borrower. Project.
papers reviewed include the Staff Appraisal Report for the Eighth
Agricultural Credit Project dated June 4, 1984, the President's Reports for
the Eighth and Interim Agricultural Credit Projects dated June 4, 1984 and
June 28, 1985, respectively, the Guarantee, Loan and Project Agreements for
the two loans, supervision reports, correspondence with the Borrower and
internal Bank memoranda on the complete project cycle.   This report was
also based on the Borrower's Project Completion Report dated October 20,
1988.
For the sake of clarity, Loan 2610-ME, the Agricultural Credit Project,;
is herein called the Interim Agricult~ral Credit Project.



- iii -
-PROJET COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
DIGQUT ARD INTERIM AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
(LOANS 2454-ME AND 2610-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       Through the Eighth and Interim Agricultural Credit Projects, which
disbursed from December 1984 to December 1987, the Bank provided US$480
million equivalent to the Government of Mexico (GOM) in support of the
agricultural credit system. These loans were administered by a qualified
second-tier agricultural trust fund established in the Central Bank of
Mexico, FIRA. Prior to these two loans, the Bank made seven similar agri-
cultural credit 'oans to Mexico for US$925 million equivalent administered
by the same trust fund, which disbursed from 1966 through 1984. The Bank
made also a similar subsequent loan for US$400 million equivalent, the
Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, which started disbursing in 1987, and is
still current.
2.       The general economic conditions present in Mexico during the
decade of 19809 greatly affected the design and implementation of the
Eighth and Interim Agricultural Credit Projects.  In the late 1970s, GOM
became increasingly concerned with the impact of the agricultural trade
deficit, and the inability to achieve self-sufficiency in the production of
grains. To address these issues, the GOM embarked on an ambitious plan of
expansionary spending in the agricultural sector. This expansionary spend-
ing policy had a negative macroeconomic impact, one of which was to fuel
inflation, increasing from 26Z in 1980 to 1022 in 1983. While after 1982
COM started to work on reducing these inflationary pressures and managed to
bring down inflation to about 60X per annum during 1984 and 1985, the
abrupt oil price decline in 1986 reversed the recovery process.
3.       While inflation was very high, the agricultural sector was being
heavily taxed through administered prices and other marketing controls in
order to promote industrialization. To partly compensate the deteriorating
terms of trade in agriculture, interest rates for agricultural activities
were maintaired at levels substantially below the rate of inflation.
4.       By the end of 1987, the crisis was so severe that GOM negotiated
an agreement between labor, farmer and industry leaders (the Solidarity
Pact) in a concerted attempt to lower inflation which continued in triple
digits, to renew structural reform efforts in order to cut down GOM subsi-
dies, to liberalize trade, and to further tighten fiscal and monetary poli-
cies.   Substantial progress has been made along these lines in 1988 and
1989; GOM subsidies have been heavily reduced while the inflation rate has
been dropped to itg current level of about 20? per annum.  These severe



- iv -
economic conditions presented the frazewort in which the Eighth and Interim
Loans were prepared and implemented.
Objective
5.       The Eighth Agricultural Credit Project moved forward during 1984,
with the important instrument of the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA)
which was expected to provide a protective armor against further decapita-
lization of the agricultural lending institutions.   GIRA provided for
reduction of subsidies via negative interest rates by narrowing the gap
between the interest rates for agriculture and the Average Cost of Funds
(ACF) for commercial banks.  In addition, the proceeds of the Eighth and
Interim Agricultural Credit Loans were to be contributed to FIRA as capital
to reinforce its financial position.
6.       Therefore, the main objectives of the Eighth and Interim Agricul-
tural Credit Projects weres
a)   to decrease rural financial market imperfections by reducing
interest rate subsidies and restricting them to specific target
groups;
b)   to continue to strengthen FIRA's institutional framework for
efficient allocation of financial resources by: (i) increasing
PIPA's capital, and (ii) supporting FIRA's productive support
services to producers and commercial bank staff through techni-
cal assistance and training-, and
c)   as a consequence, foster economically sound investments geared
at increasing agricultural productivity and production.
Imlementation Experience
7.       GIRA was to be the main tool for substantially reducing interest,
rate subsidies under the project.   Therefore, a significant part of the
supervision time was spent on discussing and negotiating compliance of the
interest rates conditionality under GIRA. However, implementation of the
GIRA for agricultural credit lines became politically difficult.  During
the implementation of the twvo projects, the inflation and ACF rate did not
decrease as predicted at the time of appraisal; instead, they increased
substantially, while production costs were increasing more rapidly than
output prices.  The options available to the Bank were either to (i) stop
the flow of Bank funds to the agricultural credit system and leave interest
rates for agricultural subloans to be even more negative than otherwise, or
(ii) accede to waivers and postponements of interest rate adjustments as
stipulated under GIRA with the view to closing the gap between interest
rates for agriculture and the ACP, while at the same time maintaining the
flow of funds to support the system.  After protracted negotiations, the
Bank and the GOM opted for the second option.
8.     - In spite of the fact that the levels of interest rates for agri-
cultural activities were increased above the initial expectations with
respect to the nominal ACF, the effective interest rate for agriculture



\~~~~~~~
continued to be highly negative during the implementation of the two
projects. This was mainly due to high inflation and the way interest rates
for agricultural activities are charged to borrowers.l/          Under these
conditions FIRA's annual lending decreased by about 20Z in real terms
during 1984-1987 as the GOM was not able to fully compensate FIRA for the
losses of its portfolio due to negative interest rates.   FIRA's lending
decreased in spite of the fact that producers' credit demand remained high
and institutional agricultural credit outside that of FIRA and the GOM's
rural development bank, was quite small.
9.       An important element of the project design which helped FIRA
stabilize its financial position was the condition that the proceeds of the
two loans under review would be contributed cost-free as equity to FIRA.
This condition was introduced in response tc. the alarming decapitalization
of FIRA during the period of 1981-1983, when the Seventh Agricultural Loan
was implemented. Implementation of the Eighth Agricultural Credit Project
was compressed into a third of its original time frame due mainly to the
strong motivations that the GOM and FIRA had to substitute internal financ-
ing from Banco de Mexico to FIRA with Bank resources. By speeding up the
disbursements of Bank loans, FIRA received free resources, instead of
receiving borrowed funds from Banco de Mexico, while the GOM received badly
needed foreign exchange. Implementation of the Interim Loan lagged behind
its original closing date due in part to a substitution of Bank funds for
IDB funds resulting from an mRB 1oan whiea disbursed between 1986-87. The
slowdown of the Bank-financed loan was also due to high onlending interest
rates; while still negative in real terms, these were so high that farmer
demand for investment loans dropped substantially.   On the other hand,
demand for short-term lending increased at a time when commercial banks did
not have sufficient resources for counterpart funding.  In those circum-
stances, the Bank agreed to reallocate funds from long-term to short-term
lending, and allow PIRA to increase its rediscounting margin to commercial
banks. With these modifications, the Interim Loan was fully disbursed with
a six-month delay from the appraisal estimate.
Results
10.      Productive Imnacts  The results from the Monitoring and Evaluation
unit of FIRA suggest that investments financed by FIRA were financially and
economically sound. However, due to fungibility problems, it is difficult
to evaluate to what extent investments rediscounted by FIRA and financed by
the Bank are net incremental investments.
11.      In spite of the above, FIRA's close supervision ensures that  real
investment in agriculture is rediscounted by commercial and development
banks.   Moreover, even though negative interest rates lessen borrower's
incentives to invest carefully, they do not remove it altogether. During
project implementation, sectoral distortions discouraged agricultural
investment and could have cancelled out incentives via subsidized credit.
1/  Interests in agriculture are calculated and paid once a year based on
the nominal ACF, while commercial lending, based on the same indicator,
requires monthly payment of interest.



- vi -
Thersfore, if some FIRA loans were accompanied by their borrowers' trans-
fers of resources out of the sector, it was the sectoral environment and
not FIRA, which was responsible for that.  It is quite likely that there
has been net agricultural disinvestment in Mexico during the implementation
of the two projects despite FIRA's financed investments, but there could
have been even more disinvestment without FIRA financing.
12.      Institutional Impacts  At the end of the project period, the gap
between interest rates for agricultural activities and the AC! was smaller
than anticipated at ape.raisal although interest rates remained highly nega-
tive in real terms and substantially below commercial rates throughout.
Consequently, FIRA's financial assets were further eroded. The GOM absorb-
ed the majority of FIRA's losses by providing FIRA with relatively cheap
credit through rediscounts from Banco de Mexico, and by granting the
proceeds of external loans (mainly from IBRD and IDB), as capital contribu-
tions.   During 1984-1987, the implementation period of the two projects
under review, the estimated subsidy via cheap credit to FIRA (in 1988
constant dollars) amounted to US$1.9 billion equivalent (Mex$4,392 bil-
lions) while GOM capital contributions from proceeds of external loans
amounted to US$1.0 billion (Mex$2,377,763 million) in 1988 currency. Howe-
ver, FIRA's capital during 1984-1987 increased only by US$0.2 billion in
1988 currency (from Mex$874,627 million to Mex$1,288,490); the balance
US$1.7 billion subsidy received by FIRA through cheap funding and capizal
contributions was passed on to the final borrowers through negative lnte-
rest rates.
13.      The above-mentioned implicit and explicit transfers to the FIRA
system were quite insignificant compared with the resources that the GOM
transferred to the EANRURAL system (BANRURAL, FICART and ANAGSA) during the
same period.   It is estimated that during the period 1984- 1987 the
BANRURAL system received US$7 billion (in 1988 currency value) in the form
of transfers and as GOM assumption of internal and external debt, while the
implicit subsidy via cheap credit is estimated at US$3 billion (in 1988
currency). Most of these subsidies were required to maintain a system with
little  credit  discipline  and hence  poor  repayment  performance.    In
contrast, the commercial banking system which rediscounts over 90 of
FIRA's financing has been able to maintain a good repayment performance
during the project's implementation period and beyond.
14.      FIRA's operating costs have  remained nearly constant in real
terms; therefore, as percentage of its declining average loan portfolio,
these costs show a rising trend during the life of the projects. Overall
operating costs averaged over 42 per annum. Although these costs might be
high for a second-tier financial institution, they are mostly associated
with services provided by FIRA to ensure sound investments through the
provision of technical assistance, and to increase the access of small-
scale farmers to commercial lending through the provision of a guarantee
fund.
15.      FIRA's operating deficit between its average operating costs and
the 3.5Z spread provided by Banco de Mexico for its rediscount operations
has been compensated by the GOM through transfer of funds from externally
financed loans as capital contributions to FIRA, and through fiscal trans-



- vii -
fers to cover FIRA's technical assistance costs. However, fiscal transfers
have been substantially reduced and, since 1989, foreign financed loans are
transferred to FIRA at CETES rate.
Sustainabilit,
16.      As mentioned above the FIRA system, and hence the project, could
not be self-sustained. In spite of GOM's increasing transfers via Banco d't
Mexico and resources lent to the GOM by the Bank and IDB, FIRA could not
even maintain its level of lending in real terms.   FIRA's contracting
effect on agricultural lending was even more pronounced if one considers
that, during the project period, rediscounting proportions for lending to
other producers were revised upward; therefore, lesser and lesser resources
from the commercial banking system were mobilized to the agricultural
sector.   By maintaining interest rates to agricultural lending substan-
tially below commercial interest rates and the level of inflation, the GOM
displaced savings that would have otherwise been mobilized for agricultural
investments either by commercial banks and/or borrowers. Currently, inte-
rest rates for agricultural activities are positive in real terms but are
still substantially below commercial rates and are insufficient to cover
the marginal cost ot funding and transaction costs of rediscounting agen-
cies and development banks.   An adjustment of interest rates would be
necessary for the system to become self-sustained in the medium _2-rm.
Findings
17.      The project was reasonably successful in maintaining some level of
investment in the sector in spite of the adverse conditions under which
these investments were made. The evaluation of VIRA's activities, and of
the projects in particular, suggests that investments financed by FIRA were
financially and economically sound. However, due to fungibility problems,
it is difficult to determine to what extent investment rediscounted j VIRA
and financed by the Bank are net incremental investments.
18.      Disbursements of the Eighth Agricultural Credit Loan were accele-
rated to a third of its original time frame mainly due to the strong moti-
vations that GOM and FIRA had to substitute internal financing from Banco
de Mexico to FIRA with Bank resources. This accelerated disbursement was
done at the expense of a stronger Bank position to a decrease in interest
rate subsidy.   However,  the Bank loan helped the GOM in its difficult
balance of payment situation during the implementation of the two projects.
19.      The GIRA was successful in closing the gap between interest rates
for agriculture and ACF but was marginally successful in closing the gap of
negative interest rates in periods of high inflation.   It was also less
successful in ensuring financial self-sufficiency of the financial institu-
tions.   However,  the GIRA mechanism for consultation and negotiation
between GOM and the Bank was mostly effective in raising the level of
consciousness of the GOM as to the devastating effect that negative inte-
rest rates have on its financial institutions, and the associated high
fiscal burden placed on the Central Gov'vrnment to replenish thls capital
through fiscal transfers.



_ viii -
20.      Because fiscal transfers-to  IRA have been substantially elimninta-
ed while foreigL-financed loans are now transferred to FIRA at CETES rate,
FIRA would have to accelerate the transfer of costs of supporting services
to producers and to commercial banks.   In addition,  it would need to
increase its rediscount rate to a level sufficient to cover its marg%inal
cost of borrowed funds plus its financial intermediation costs to pt:vent
further decapitalization. Not to do so would limit the catalytic role of
this institution to induce comercial lending to the agricultural sector,
in particular, in light of the recent liberalization of the financial
system.
21.      The cost to the GOM of maintaining the FIRA system has been unsus-
tainable. However, such cost has been only about one tenth of the cost the
G0 has had to bear to malu ain the BANRURAL system where misallocation of
resources has been widely pread and credit discipline has deteriorated.
Therefore, to address the kisues of the rural financial sector in the
future it would be necessary to include reforms not only to the FIRA system.
but also to the BANRURAL system.



PRCM=T COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
31GM! AGRICULTRAL AND INTERiM AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS'
(LOANS 2454-HE AND 2610-ME)
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Names:  Eighth Agriculturail Credit Project *
Agricultural Credit Project
Loans No.:     Loan 2454-ME
Loan 2610-ME
RVP Unit:      LA2AG
Country:       Mexico
Sector:        Agriculture
Subsector:     Agnicultural Credit
2.  Background
1.2.1    The general economic conditions present in Mexico during the
decade of the  1980's greatly affected the design and implementation of-the-
Eighth and Interim Project.  In the late 1970's, the Government of Mexico
(GOM) became increasingly concerned at the impact of the agricultural trade
deficit (about US$ 1.1 billion, or 2 percent of total merchandise exports)
and the inability to acbh ve self sufficiency in the production of baslc
grains.   With the resources provided by increased oil revenues, the GOH
embarked on an ambitious subsidy plan which included increases in pro4i%cer
prices through the CORASUPO enterprise, maintenance of consumer prices at
very low levels, increasing GOM expenditure on agticulture and th& expan-
sion of the bureaucratic machinery to implement these strategies.  Total
GOM expenditures increased trom 28.0 percent of GDP in 1979 to 35.1 percent
in 1981 and to 41.4 percent in 1982.  This expansionary spending policy had
negative macroeconomic repercussions, one of which was to fuel inflation,
which increased from 26.3 percent in 1980 to 58.8 percent in 1982 and 101.9
percent in 1983.  While the Adminiistration which= took office in 1982 was
working on containing and reducing these inflationary policies, the abrupt
' For the sBke of clarity, Loan 2610-ME, the Agricultural Credit Project,
Is herein cqlled-the Interim Agricultural Credit Project.
I.~~~~~~~~~,
-3                               I    /                                  -



-2-
oil price decline in 1986, which partially forced a sharp devaluation of
the Mexican peso, further delayed the recovery process.   The subsequent
targeting of the exchange rate, together with an increase in the frequency
of wage and cost adjustments, added to the instability of the economic
system. By the end of 1987, the crisis continued to be so spvere that the
Government negotiated an agreement between labor, farmer and industry
leaders (the Solidarity Pact) in a concerted attempt to lower inflation
which continued in triple digits, to renew structural reform efforts in
order to cut down GOM subsidies and liberalize trade, and to further
tighten fiscal and monetary policies.  Substantial progress has been made
along these lines in 1988 and 1989 with GOM subsidies being reduced or
eliminated and the inflation rate dropping to its current level of about 20
percent annually. This severe economic crisis, which is briefly outlined
above, presented the environment in which the Eighth and Interim loans were
disbursed. These loans, as weil as the many other Bank Loans approved and
disbursed during the last decade, have assisted Mexico to evolve from this
crisis.
1.2.2    Mexico's agricultural sector contributes about 10 percent of the
gross domestic product, employs about one-third of the country's active
labor force and contributes about 6 percent of the country's exports.
During the period 1965 to 1980, agricultural production growth rates have
been progressively declining to a point at which, in 1979, the country
experienced its first agricultural trade deficit.   In 1981, the deficit
exceeded US$1 billion. As a result of government intervention in 1981 and
1982 in the form of substantially increased farm gate prices and the intro-
duction of a range of input subsidies in the context of the Government-
sponsored Mexican Food Program (SAM), agricultural output rebounded at an
annual growth rate of 8.5 percent. Although successful in increasing food
production, the program proved too costly and was abandoned in 1982.
1.2.3    While agricultural zredit grew continuously up to 1981, growth
came to an abrupt end in 1982 when institutional agricultural credit fell
nationwide by about 28 percent in real terms, and again in 1983 it fell by
25 percent. It recuperated in 1984-85 and fell again during the next three
years. In 1982 and 1983, the Government found itself unable to finance the
large gap between the available funds generated through the recoveries on
the existing loan portfolios at devalued amounts, and the demand for new
agricultural loans.  It is estimated that, in 1983, the banking system's
impact on agricultural financing, measured as a proptrtion of GNP, fell
from 25 percent in 1980 to about 20 percent, and therefore it satisfied a
significantly smaller proportion of the agricultural credit demand. Exter-
nal sources of funding such as that provided by the multilateral develop-
ment banks became especially important at this time.   In late 1983, the
Bank agreed to a general Special Action Program (SAP) for Mex4co which had
the effect of assisting in filling this funding gap via accelerated
disbursements of Bank loans allocated to FIRA.
1.2.4    As noted in paragraph 1.2.1 above, the economic conditions present
during the period 1980 to 1984 were not favorable.   The combination of
foreign debt demands, fiscal deficits and persistently high inflation
rates. diminished the options available to the Government to address the
credit demand in the agricultural sector. FIRA had suffered the alarmingly



-3-
high decapitalization rate of an average of about 30 percent per year
during 1981, 1982 and 1983. And, interest rates to agricultural producers
remained highly negative as compared to the annual inflation rate until the
second half of 1988.  Currently, interest rates to agricultural producers
are highly positive although substantially below market rates.
1.2.5    Mexican agriculture remained basically stagnated during the period
1984-1988.   Combined output for the main crops of cereal, oilseeds and
beans increased substantially in 1985 (14.5 percent) to 29.6 million tons,
but then dropped again in the period 1986-88 to about the 1983 level of
production (25.2 million tons).  Yields per hectare for these same crops
remained very stable, fluctuating between 1.9 and 2.1 tons per hectare
during the period 1983-1988. Imports of basic grains peaked at 9.4 million
tons in 1983 and were approximately halved to 4.6 million tons by 1987. As
indicated in paragraph 1.6.1 below, the targeted beneficiaries of FIRA
subsidized credits, generally showed improvement in farm income and genera-
tion of employment for the period 1984-1987.
3. Prolect Oblectives and Description
1.3.1    Proiect  Obiectivess    Within  the  difficult  financial  context
described above, which was well documented by the Bank, the Eighth Agricul-
tural Credit Project moved forward with the important element of the Gene-
ral Interest Rote Agreement vhich was expected to provide the protective
armor against further decapitalization of the agricultural lending institu-
tions. GIRA provided for the reduction of subsidies via negative interest
rates.  The stated objectives of the project were much in line with the
previous seven agricultural credit projects channelled through FIRA.   They
were as followst
a.   continue to strengthen PIRA's institutional framework for effi-
cient allocation of financial resources; and
b.   improve agricultural sector policy by reducing interest rate
subsidies and restrict them to special target groups.
c.   increase agricultural productivity and production with a view
to (i) increasing exports, (ii) improving food self- suffi-
ciency, and (iii) increasing farm income;
1.3.2       Project Description:  The specific functional project activi-
ties were as follows:
a.   investment credit and short-term loans to farmers for crops,
livestock and agroindustries (US$477 million proceeds from Bank
Loan targeted to this component);
b.   technical assistance to farmers to enable appropriate transfex
and adoption of improved technology (Part of US$3 million
proceeds from Bank Loan earmarked for Production Support was
targeted to this component); and



-4-
c.   training to FIRA's technical staff and that of participating
banks, and to strengthen FIRA's medium and long term develop-
ment planning (Part of US$3 million from Bank Loan earmarked
for Production Support was targeted to this component.)
4. Proiect Preparation and Design
1.4.1    Project Identification. Preparation and Appraisal.  The Eighth and
Interim Agricultural Credit Project design was to a large degree developed
in direct response to the implementation difficulties experienced in the
then ongoing Seventh Agricultural Credit Project with FIRA.   During the
latter stages of the Seventh Loan, the Government was experiencing fiscal
shortages which limited its counterpart fund availability; and the higher
than expected devaluation rate over the inflation rate for 1982 and 1983
had the effect of slowing down Bank disbursements on the loan. In 1983,
the Bank implemented a Special Action Program (SAP) to Mexico to increase
the disbursement percentages for Bank financed projects in Mexico, which
had the effect of rapidly disbursing the remaining 50 percent balance of
the Seventh loan and setting the stage for an accelerated disbursement of
the Eighth Loan.
1.4.2    In early 1983 when the Initial Project Brief was circulated,
Programs commented that the proposed project could not be a continuation of
previous projects, but would have to be targeted to specific groups,
regions and subsectors.   However, it was then considered that to follow
such recommendations would have increased the segmentation of the rural
financial market, and therefore, it was decided that the Eighth Project
would become a continuation of the preceding projects, with two exceptions.
The first was that 30 percent of the loan was allocated to short-term work-
ing capital credits; all previous Bank loans financed only medium- and
long-term subloans. The second was that the overall disbursement percent-
age was set at 63 percent to facilitate fast disbursement within the frame-
work of the Special Action Program for Mexico.
1.4.3    The Eighth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2454-ME for US$300
million) was appraised in November 1983, and approved in mid- 1984, coin-'
ciding with the finalization of the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA),
the umbrella interest rate agreement for all credit operations financed by
the Bank in Mexico (see paras 1.5.6 to 1.5.8). GIRA formed the basis for
approval of the loan by the Loan Committee and the Board.
1.4.4    The project appraisal report for the Eighth Loan identified a
cumulative projected cash flow shortage in FIRA's operations of US$490
millions which would be met by the rescheduling of existing loans or
through the negotiation of new loans. This apparently was not possible in
the short term and the rapid disbursement of the Eighth Loan filled the
gap.
1.4.5    The Eighth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2454-ME) was planned
to be carried out over a four year period with the Completion Date set for
March 1988 and the Closing Date for September 1988.  The Loan was fully
committed by FIRA as of August 1985 and fully disbursed by the Bank as of



-5-
January 1986. This acceleration of the execution of the Eighth Project led
to a Government request for the Interim Loan (2610-ME).   No appraisal
report was prepared for this loan which was approved by the Board in Decem-
ber 1985.
1.4.6    The organization of the projects called for loan proceeds to be
channeled through the FIRA crganization, with which the Bank has had a long
and good relationship. It was decided to exclude the Government's specia-
lized Rural Development Bank, BANRURAL, as a direct executor of loan
proceeds.  BANRURAL was heavily subsidized (due not only to negative on-
lending interest rates but also to lack of credit discipline and hence poor
recovery performance) and not ready to accept institutional reforms of the
kind FIRA had been gradually introducing over the years.    The amounts
included in the loan to assist FIRA in improving its productive support
activities to producers and commercial bank staff through technical assis-
tance and training were merely a continuation and refinement of this type
of support included in the previous seven projects with FIRA.
1.4.7    An important element of the design of these two projects which
helped FIRA stabilize its financial position (even though at the expense of
the Government as a whole) was the condition that the proceeds of these
loans would be contributed cost-free as equity to FIRA. This was done in
response to the alarming decapitalization of FIRA during the Seventh Agri-
cultural Credit Loan in the highly inflationary period of 1981-1983. This
action did nothing to ameliorate the distortion in the credit system caused
by negative interest rates, but did provide a temporary extension of the
financial viability of FIRA. Moreover, the granting by GOM of "cost-freea
funds as contributions to FIRA equity could have been a disincentive  to a
more cost effective provision of its support services. Overall FIRA tech-
nical assistance and administrative costs, expressed as a percentage of
average annual portfolio, increased 2.5 times during the period 1980- 1988.
A large portion of this cost is, however, due to technical assistance to
farmers and commercial banks; these institution-building activities have
been very important and their impact is reflected in PIRA's impressive
reputation throughout the region. However, this increasing trend in FIRA's
account should be reversed by transferring such costs to its beneficiaries
on an accelerated basis.
5. Project Implementation
1.5.1    Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up:  Although Loan 2454-HE
was approved on June 27, 1984 and signed on August 8, 1984, it did not
become effective until December 3, 1984. A key consideration by the Board
for loan approval was the recently negotiated GIRA for Mexico (see para.
1.4.3). As stated in the SAR, interest rates stipulated in the GIRA were
to apply to FIRA total lending program (para 2.04 of SAR).  The Mexican
Government, however, did not adjust interest rates in accordance with GIRA.
The loan, therefore, did not become effective until the Government took
this initial step in December 1984.
1.5.2    In October 1984, the consent of retroactive financing under loan
2454-HE was increased from US$20 million to US$30 million.  In the mean-



-6-
time, the Bank had agreed to allow FIRA to commit and disburse subloans at
the old interest rates until end December 1984, at which time the revised
rate was to be introduced.  FIRA issued instructions on the new interest
rate structure in March 1985, and these new rates cam  into effect in April
1985. FIRA disbursements between January and March 1985 did not conform to
GIRA; a continuous exchange of reimbursement applications was necessary to
ensure that the Bank would disburse against subloans which complied with
GIRA. This difficulty in complying with GIRA at the outset was to be indi-
cative of Government sensitivity towards decreasing interest rate subsidies
throughout the life of the  Project and beyond.  Interest rate subsidies
have been justified to compensate producers for below-market output prices
due to price controls and other market regulations, and to provide neces-
sary assistance to agricultural producers whose enterprises are not econo-
mically viable. The latter type of beneficiaries were mainly financed by
BANRURAL.
1.5.3      Implementation Schedule:  The execution of the Eighth Agricultu-
ral Credit Project was compressed into a third of the original time frame.
Contrary to the four year estimated disbursement schedule (December 1984 to
September 1988), the Eighth Loan was fully committed by August 1985 and
disbursed in 14 months, by January of 1986. However, during the period of
the Interim Loan (Loan 2610-ME), which was approved by the board in Decem-
ber 1985 and become effective immediately thereafter, the rate of commit-
ments and disbursements slowed down. This was due in part to a substantial
substitution for IBRD funds with IDB funds resulting from an IDB loan to
FIRA which was disbursed in 1986-1987.  Additionally, Bank disbursements
slowed as on-lending interest rates rose to a point that, while   still
negative in real terms, farmer demand for investment loans dropped substan-
tially due to the shortening of repayment periods in real terms under high
inflation and interest rates combined with traditional forms of amortizing
long-term loans. On the other hand, demand for short-term working-capital
loans increased. In these circumstances, the Bank agreed to the Borrower's
request to reallocate funds from investment to working-capital loans and
to allow FIRA to increase its rediscounting margin from 50 percent to 80
percent of subloans to the category of Other Producers beneficiaries
involved in production of basic grains. Pending these reallocations, the
Government requested and obtained a six-month extension of the Closing Date
for Loan 2610-ME, which proved to be sufficient time to fully disburse the
balance of the loan.
1.5.4        Loan Allocations:  The original and revised allocations and
actual costs for Loan 2454-ME and 2610-ME are shown on Tables 3 and 4 in
Part III. The most significant outstanding feature of the loan allocation
was that of the actual application of the two Bank loans. Of the US$480
million, US$156.0 million, or about 33 percent of the loans, was disbursed
for working capital loans, a significant departure from previous loans to
FIRA which had been almost exclusively earmarked for investment credits.
(The first Bank loan used for working-capital subloans was lIRA VII which
was amended under the SAP to allocate  about 9 percent of the total to
subloans of this type). This change vas in direct response to the lack of
liquidity in the commercial banking system and the Federal Government it-
self, and the shifting demand from investment to working capital credits on
the part of producers.



-7-
1.S.S          External Funding Relative to Total Funding:  As might be
expected, during the life of the project, external sources of funding,
principally from the' World Bank and 1DB, became more critical to the total
financial capacity of FIRA. Expressed as a percentage of total inflow of
funds to FIRA on an annual basis, external sources increased four fold as
the following table demonstratess
Pesos Billions 1988 Constant
Total Inflow       Internal*       2    External   2
1982           1,444            li238         86       206     14
1983           1,214              988         81       226     19
1984           1,294              529         41       765     59
1985           1,513              893         59       620     41
1986           1,303              512         39       791     61
1987           1,300              557         43       743     57
* Principally rediscounts from BANXICO
It is apparent that external sources of funds, which, since December 1,
1983 have been granted to FIRA as equity, were progressively substituting
for domestic sources of funs.  The 'role of external funding as a catalyst
for increased credit availability has been eroded 'in the process.   This
fact takes on added weight in light of the parallel decapitalization of the
institution.
1.5.6    GIRA Effectiveness,   The GIRA mechanism for closing the gap on
neg4tive interest rates did not produce the desired results during the life
of the Project (1984-1987) due to higher than expected inflation rates and
the lack of a mechanism to ensure that the nominal ACF and CPI would move
close together.   Interest rates became positive or near equilibrium only
recently in mid-1988 when the average consumer price index fell signifi-
cantly.   During the project period, the CPI was moving in the opposite
direction contrary to expectations while ACF was lagging behind. The trend
in the various relevant rates since 1982 was as follows:
Annual Inc-
reases in              Average      Relationship to
CPI          ACF     Lending         CPI    ACF
(1)'         (2)       (3)           3/1    3/2
1982     58.9        40.4       31.4          53?    78?
1983    101.5        56.7       37.6          37      66
1984     65.5        51.1       36.9          56      72
1985     57.7        56.1       41.9          72      75
1986     86.2        80.9       63.4          74      78
1987    131.8        94.6       83.8          64    68
1988    114.1        67.6       63.3          55      94
April  1989                  48.4      48.1                  99
As the above table indicates, movement of interest rates towards ACF was
delayed but not foregone.   Furthermore, through protracted negotiations



with respect to compliance with GIRA. the average interest rate on agricul-
tural lending was moved progressively closer to ACF. However, movements of
the ACF lagged substantially behind increases in the CPI. Therefore, the
agricultural interest rate structure and commercial interest rates, as
compared to the average annual CPI, continued to be significantly negative,
which suggests that GIRAh itself was a weak tool for decreasing interest
subsidies to borrowers in the agricultural sector.
1.5.7    This environment of accelerating inflation, fiscal deficits, and
decreasing farm productivity made compliance with GIRA a very difficult
task for the Government to implement on a timely basis. Alignment of inte-
rest rates to the much higher CPI rate was even more remote. The options
available to the Bank were tc accede to waivers and postponements to GIRA
with the view to closing the gap between interest for agricultural loans
and ACF, while at the same time providing required funds to maintain the
system, or stop the flow of funds and leave interest rates for loans to
this sector to be ever more negative than otherwise. In retrospect, howe-
ver, the negative interest rates put into effect had the unfortunate result
of the further decapitalization of FIRA.
1.5.8    As noted above, the GIRA accord was successful in closing the gap
between interest rates for agriculture and ACF but was not successful in
closing the gap of negative interest rates on agricultural credits during
the Project period. However, the GIRA mechanism for consultation and nego-
tiation between the GOM and the Bank did serve to raise the level of
consciousness of the GOM of the devastating effect that negative interest
rates have on their financial institutions' capital and the associated high
fiscal burden placed on Central Government to replenish this capital
through transfers. Even though the GIRA accord proved to be only partially
successful during the Project, it did lead to eventual discussions with the
Bank for a Subsidy Control and Budgetary Agreement which was approved to
limit subsidies as a percent of GDP.  The proposed agreement was to be a
condition of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project (appraised and approved
in 1987). However, it was considered not necessary as the Mexican Govern-
ment itself implemented a subsidy reduction program which exceeded the
proposed targets. In this light, then, the GIRA accord can be viewed posi-
tively in the sense that it contributed to the process leading to the
reduction of financial subsidies to the agricultural sector, during a
period of severe economic crisis in Mexico.
1.5.9    Compliance  with  Loan  Conditions3    The  project  successfully
channeled in excess of 50 percent of the total available funds to the
targeted LIP group (see Table 3, Part III). At the same time, a substan-
tial portion of funds originally earmarked for investment loans was trans-
ferred to the working capital category, duly authorized in a formal ptoject
modification.
1.5.10   With regards to project financing, the producers and participating
banks contributed 35 percent instead of the 28 percent estimated at apprai-
sal, while FIRA contributed 25 percent, instead of the 33 percent estimated
at appraisal (US$ 299 million as compared to US$ 411 million). More impor-
tantly, the Bank Loan took on added significance in light of the overall
decline in real terms in the FIRA lending program during the petiod. The



-9-
total FIRA lending program (discounts) during the project life was as
follows 
1988 Constant
Pesos Millions
1984                 3,253,449
1985                 3,780,802
1986                 2,691,766
1987                 2,652,122
This 18 percent drop in FIRA's new lending was due to a 50 percent reduc-
tion in GOM funding (principally Banxico rediscounts) as shown in the table
in paragraph 1.5.5 above.   This funding gap was partially filled by the
IBRDIIDB loans during the period. Although the counterpart funding level
vas not a condition of the Loans, they are reflected in the appraisal esti-
mates and were expected to be forthcoming.
1.5.11   The  original  Project  Agreement  for  Loan  2454-HE  called  for
percentage points as margins to participating banks ranging from 2 percent
(subloans to Other Producer category of beneficiaries) to 6.5 percent
(subloans to Low Income Producer category of beneficiaries). In consulta-
tion with the Bank, these margins were modified over the life of the 2454-
ME loan and the interim 2610-ME loan. In 1986, the margins were pegged to
the ACF; they peaked at a high of about 9.5 points in 1987, and began to
drop (as ACP dropped) in 1988. These high margin rates were granted at the
expense of further decapitalization of FIRA. As of 1989, the margins were
again provided at a fixed rate, and currently they are established between
5 and 6 percent points with an average bf 5.66 percentege points. It is
important to note that FIRA also partially funds the operating costs (or
technical assistance costs) of the coamercial banks through reimbursements
made by FEGA.  These spreads and FIRA's reimbursement of commercial bank's
costs might seem hiih relative to commercial banks' intermediation costs
but low compared to these institutions' returns on alternative investments.
There is a need to review these margins in light of the Rural Financial
Subsector Study being undertaken by the Secretaria de Hacienda as part of
the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project to properly compensate commercial
banks without eroding FIRA's  capital. During the life of the Eighth and
Interim Loans, the margins provided to intermediaries were in accordance
with the loan covenants as adjusted from time to time with approval  from
the Bank.
1.5.12   Operating Costs:  FIRA's operation costs, which are comprised of
direct expenditure for administration, technical assistance and training,
plus the reimbursements to commercial banks and producer groups for techni-
cal assistance, have sharply increased over the recent past as percentage
of average loan portfolio.  They were between 3 to 4 percent for the perjAd
1981-85 but have surpassed 5 percent since 1987, as the following ta4Ae
indicates.



_ 10 -
Operating Costs as I
of Average Portfolio
1980                            2.79
1981                            3.84
1982                            3.68
1983                            3.70
1984                            4.20
1985                            3.72
1986                            4.55
1987                            5.09
1988                            8.66
1.5.13   These costs would be excessive for pure second-tier rediscounting
institution. However, FIRA has been more than that. FIRK had channelled
increasing portions of its lending operations to low-income farmers.
Therefore, FIRA had performed not only its rediscounting functions but also
had monitored every loan rediscounted, the income of every borrower, and.
had to perform research and extension functions.  It is unfortunate that
FIRA could not break down its expenditures between its purely banking role
and those of technical assistance and loan guarantee fund. It is evident,
however, that since 1981, FIRA's total operating costs have consistently
exceeded the 3.5 percent margin recetved by FIRA on Banxico rediscounts.
These operational deficits have been eroding FIRA's capital compensated for
by (i) the 'cost-free' funds (proceeds of IBRDIIDB loans) which GOM has
been contributing to FIRA as equity since December 1983, and (ii) the fis-
cal transfers to specifically cover -technical assistance costs. However,
the latter have been practically eliminated since 1987 and the former would
be virtually eliminated because,' as of 1990, all foreign loans would be
lent to FIRA at CETES rates while fiscal transfers to cover other costs
fell substantially. It should be noted that since 1987 actual transfers
have consistently been substantially below budgeted amounts.   Therefore,
FIRA must now contain these costs and pass some of them on to the producers
and commercial banks. Not to do so would result in further decapitaliza-
tion of FIRA and would limit the catalytic role of this institution to
induw'e commercial lending to the agricultural sector.
1.5.14   During the project life, the loan guarantee program administered
through the FEGA Fund continued to function normally. Even though loss
rates continued to be exceptionally low, averaging between 1-2 percent of
portfolio covered, starting in 1986, the FONDO and FEFA. Funds have begun to
replace the Central Government as -the primary fundlng source.  Combining
the insurance payments with the technical assistance reimbursements paid-
out by FEGA to producer groups and participating banks, FIRA's funding
share has increased to about 50 percent, with a corres ponding drop in the
share provided by Central Government through budgetary) support.   In 1988
FIRA started to charge beneficiaries for the cost of the guarantee fund %2--
to 3 percent according to the amount guaranteed), however, this premium was
not sufficient to fully cover administrative expenses. FIRA should review
premiums so as to base them solely on pri6r claim experience for individual



- 11 -
producers so that premiums received and indemnities paid balance out over a
period of years for different types of beneficiaries.
1.5.15 Deczpitalization of FIRAs In spite of the application of Project
proceeds as a direct infusion to FIRA's. equity account, the overall equity
position of FIRA increased only marginally during the period 1982-1987.
The outstanding portfolio expressed in constant terms dropped by over a
third during the same period. Viewing this financial situation in ito most
favorable light, the result of the Project was to cushion the financial
fall of FIRA, leaving it in a position to maintain its infrastructure for
future growth when inflation and ACF drop to a level whereby positive inte-
rest rates are feasible.   This occurred in mid-1988 and in fact FIRA's
financial position has substantially stabilized since that date. Viewed
in the most unfavorable light, the Project might have assisted the Govern-
ment in perpetuating major subsidies to borrowers, contrary to its design,
with no effective leverage for eliminating this Government policy.
1.5.16   The Ninth Agricultural Credit Project (which became effective in
1987) was a necessary step to maintain FIRA's financial sustainability.
The Bank continued to support the rebuilding of FIRA's financial position
with the proceeds of this Ninth Loan being granted by the Government as
equity.   The results of the Eighth  and Interim Project were not at all
sustainable; the proceeds of the loans were used to subsidize both FIRA and
the borrowers. As the following table shows, in spite of massive inflows
durinS the period, at December 31, 1988, FIRA's equity stands at 11 percent
above the 1980 level, and its portfolio stands at 27 percent below the 1980
balances
Millions Pesos 1988 Constant
Equity         Portfolio
Balance Dec. 31, 1980       1,675,500      3,286,900
Balance Dec. 31, 1988       1,852,797      2,410,585
Net Change                  + 177,297        (876,315)
Percent Change                 + 11?           (27Z)
The projects under review, plus the previous project (FIRA VII) and the
subsequent project (PIRA IX), have had the effect of maintaining PIRA's
equity at approximately status quo as of 1980. This has been accomplished
at a substantial loss to the Central Goverment which has absorbed the
decapitalization losses over the period.
6. Results
1.6.1    Physical Results:  No independent review of physical output was
performed by the Bank.  Statistics included in Tables 6 and 7 in Part III
which present data on direct benefits and rates of return, were provided by
FIRA management and are based on data gathered by PIRA as part of its moni-



_ 12 -
toring and evaluation system.  Based on such information FItA 1/  found
that the project outputs in terms of crop yields were marginally below the
appraisal estimates for all categories of key products, with the exception
of rainfed maize, which exactly matched the original estimate. Apparently,
the most positive results were obtained in the Low Income Producer category
of producers whereby net income per producer showed a increase of about 10
percent, and the number of work days increased by approximately 50 percent.
While the Medium Income Producer and Other Producer groups also showed a
large increase in number of work days, their net income per producer
actually showed a decrease of about 25 percent. With respect to perennial
crops, the acreage in production increased about 25 percent on the average
for all categories of producers.  These calculations are based on before
and after credit activity and are not necessarily caused by credit availa-
bility only.
1.6.2    Due to fungibility problems, there are serious problems in trying
to identify how much of the investments IBRD financed through FIRA are net
increment, a difference between with and without project as compared to
before and after project financing.  When the conditions in which the sec-
tor has to operate discourages investments, as was the case for the Mexican
agriculture during the implementation of the two lcans under review, some
of the official credit expansion will compensate for sectoral disinvestment
by farmers and by the commercial banks. Therefore, even if the investments
IBRD financed through FIRA are financially and economically viable as the
M&E data suggest they were, they might merely be the instrument that
permitted borrowers and commercial banks to withdraw other resources from
the sector.
1.6.3    In spite of the above, the following considerations suggest the
soundness of FItA financed investments.  First, FIRA carries out a close
supervision of loans to ensure that all loans rediscounted by participating
banks are good agricultural investments. FIRA has a cadre of well quali-
fied and motivated technicians who tend to discard bad investments.
Second, even though negative interest rates lessen borrower incentives to.
invest carefully, they do not remove it altogether.   Moreover, sectoral
distortions discouraging agricultural investments were so severe that cauld
have tended to offset FIRA investment incentive via subsidized credit.
Therefore, if some FITRA loans were accompanied by their borrowers' trans-
fers of resources out of the sector, not FIRA but the sectoral environment
was responsible for that.  There was probably net agricultural disinvest-
ment in Mexico despite FIRA, but there would have been even more without
it.
1.6.4    Rates of Return*  Based on FIRA's information, the financial and
economic rates of return at the farm level also were satisfactory. Both
rainfed and irrigated annual crops exceeded the appraisal estimates. Other
categories of activities produced results which, although less than
projected, were reasonably positive. However, as mentioned before, while
these returns might be correct, one cannot .-onclude that these are returns
to the credit component due to fungibility problems.
1/ As stated in the Government's PCR.



1.6.5    aeneficiariess  The project anticipated 51.3,percent of the total
credits to be channelled to Low Income Producer category of beneficiaries.
The actual al1ocation resulted in 54 percent being directed to this group.
In terms of number of persons benefited by investment subloans under the
Project, the Low Income Producer group represented 56 percent of the total.
as the following table indicatess
Total
No. of         Total         LIP         Other
Families       Benefi.      Benefi.    Benefi.
Work.Capital        23,907          119,535
Investment          94,853          474,265      266,986     207,279
Total             118,760         593,800
Appraisal           105,000         580,000
7.  IzstitutionI Performace
1.7.1    Bank Performance.  Throughout the Eighth and Interim Projects, the
Bank's efforts were directed to the interest rate issue through the appli-
cation of the GIRA accord. Its concern during appraisal and negotiations
about the relationship of subloan lending rates to the ACF rates and the
general level of inflation, was properly justified.   However, when the
adjustments stipulated by GIRA came due, and the Government -found them
politically difficult to implement, the Bank temporarily stopped disburse-
ments, and subsequently resumed them, after protracted negdtiations. Al-
though this process was painful and time consuming, and caused delays on
meeting GIRA agreements, the end result was a decrease in the gap between
ACF and interest rates on agricultural loans.   It should be emphasized,
however, that because ACP lagged annual inflation rates, interest rates for
agricultural activities were highly negative during the project period.
1.7.2    The Bank continued to be.sensitive to Mexico's difficult financial
problems. It maintained the higher level of disbursement percentages esta-
blished by SAP during the latter stages of the Seventh Project and into the
Eighth and Interim Projects, and it transferred in excess of US$ 40 million
of investment funds to short-term credit to meet the increased demand for
working capital support.   The Bank also quickly responded to the highly
unusual rapid disbursement of the Eighth Loan by processing and approving
the Interim Loan, representing a sixty percent increase in funds availabi-
lity.
1.7.3    Bank supervision missions were frequent and timely, although they
were necessarily directed principally to financial matters.
1.7.4    Borrower Performanee.  Similar to the situation of the Bank, the
Government had few options to deal with its non-complianc4 with the GIM&
accord. The solution to the difficulties in implementing GIRA was townego-
tiate modifications.  This was successfully accomplished by the Government.
The, side effect was to prolong subsidies to producers yia negative interest



- 14 -
rates, and to allow for further erosion of FIRA's financial assets. To its
credit, Central Government absorbed the majority of FIRA's losses by
providing relatively cheap credit through the BANXICO rediscounts, and by
granting the proceeds of external loans to FIRA as equity. The estimated
subsidy via cheap sources of funds (mainly through BANXICO) provided by the
GOM is as follows:
Billions of Pesos 1988 Constant
Average     Actual     Interest
Balance of   Interest     Paid        Amo:t't
Borrowed     Paid      Calculated      of
Funds      by FVIA     at ACF       Subsidy
1980      2,354.2      300.2        487.3        187.1
1981      2,845.6      468.6        813.8        345.2
1982      3,803.9      437.5      1,536.8      1,099.3
1983      3.026.0      452.5      1,712.7      1,260.2
1984      2,422.4      4.95.2     1,237.9        742.7
1985      2,503.2      447.8      1,404.3        956.5
1986      2,467.0      459.6      1,995.8      1,536.2
1987      1,819.5      564.6      1,721.3      1,156.7
1988      1.280.9      499.9        865.9        366.0
Total Subsidy     7,649.9
1.7.5    This  amount  represents  the equivalent  of US$ 3,354 millions
(December 31, 1988 exchange rate fff 2,28111) of accumui.lated subsidy from
this source over the period 1980-1988, which, of course, has been trans-
ferred to the end borrowers. In addition to this subsidy transfer, the GOM
grants to FIRA as equity contributions,.were as follows:
Billions Pesos 1988 Constant
GOM ContributLons
(mainly IBRDIIDB Loans)
1981                    54.9
1982                    40.6
1983.                   55.6
1984                   461.0
1985                   666.4
1986                   791.8
1987                   458.6
1988                   700.3
Total      3,229.2
1.7.6    This amount represents  the equivalent  of US$ 1,416 millions
(December 31, 1988 exchange rate of 2,28111) of accumulated subsidy from



- 15 -
this source over the period 1981-1988, which had the result of directly
reinforcing the financial position of FIRA.
1.7.7    These two subsidies from GOM have allowed FIRA to emerge from this
economic crisis relatively intact in spite of highly  negative interest
rates. FIRA's infrastructure and administrative and operational capacity,
in particular, its technical assistance capacity, remains strong.
1.7.8    During this period of declining resources and shrinking lending
program (in real terms), FIRA has maintained a high level of technical
assistance and training targeted towards both the producers and interme-
diary bank staff.  In addition they successfully transferred their head-
quarters to Horelia, Michoacan and procured and installed a sophisticated
computer network, financed by the IDB, which greatly enhances their capa-
city to support their decentraUzation str!t"gy.
8.  Proiect Relationship
1.8.1    The Project did not go according to plan.  It was characterized by
unexpected events and continual modifications.   Throughout all of this,
accommodation was reached.   The borrower, pushed by its very difficult
economic crisis, sought changes and postponements. The Bank performed its
role by negotiating delays and modifications to GIRA against reduction of
the gap between ACP and interest rates to agriculture, in particular to
low-income producers.    Throughout this difficult and rather protracted
negotiation, both parties acted cordially and professionally. In the final
analysis, the Government has paid a very high price by postponing subsidy
reductions, but in the process it has protected FIRA as an institution.



_ 17 -
PROJECT CO M LTION REPORT
uimzco
EIGHT AND IRTERII AU!CULTURA  CREIT PROJECTS
(LOAS 2454-M  AND 2610tER)
PART 1I: PROJECT REV1  FWMlil THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I~~~~~~~~~ 



- 19 -
TiASLAION
BANK OF MEXICO
Trustee of the Agricultural
Guaranty and Development Fund
Office of the Assistant Director
of Agricultural Credit
Morelia, Nichoacan, April 27, 1990
Mrs. Graciela Lituaa
International Bank
of Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington,DC 20433
USA
Dear Mrs. Lituma:
In response to your request of March 19, please find enclosed a copy
of part II of the Eighth Agricultural Credit Project (Loans 2454-ME and 2610-
ME) "'troject Completion Report" entitled: Project Review from the Borrower's
Standpoint.
Sincerely yours,
Bank of Mexico
FIRA.
l~ ~ ~ ~~~FE
ce: Nacional Financiera, SNC-Insurgentes Sur #1971, Torre Norte 8 Piso,
Mexico City
cc:   International Operations Department
[Initialed]



- 21 -
PART IIl PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introductio'
2.1.1     The Eighth Agricultural Credit Project was formulated for the
purpose of extending supplementary support, with financial resources and
support services, to agricultural, fisheries and agroindustrial projects
that contribute to the country's agricultural development by virtue of
their technical and socioeconomic characteristics. Its central aim was
to extend technical and credit assistance to participating producers in
order to improve their income levels and family well-being by raising
their productivity through the use of appropriate technologies, which
generated additional sources of employment in the countryside, thereby
helping the external agricultural balance of payments.
2.1.2     The Eighth Loan (2454-ME) and its continuation (2610-ME),
which together amounted to 480 million dollars, continued to provide
support to Mexican credit companies, through the Fideicomisos
Instituidos en Relacion con la Agricultura [Trust Funds Established in
Connection with Agriculture] (FIRA) of the Bank of Mexico, for
operations in the various agricultural branches covered by the funds,
including resourccs to strengthen support activities such as training
technicians and producers, monitoring, evaluation and experimentation.
The project was implemented between 1984 and 1987 and coincides with one
of the most critical periods in the country's economic history. Despite
the fact that the Eighth Project was implemented during a time of
serious national economic problems, it had a positive impact on the
granting of agricultural and collateral support loans, and helped to
strengthen the institution.
2. The Role of the World Bank
2.2.1     In supporting the Federal Government's agricultural
development programs, the Bank funded nine loans to the FIRA between
1965 and 1986 amounting to 1.405 billion dollars for investment loans.
In mid-1986 the Bank began to finance a new 300 million dollar loan,
2837-ME (Ninth Agricultural Credit Project), which has now been
disbursed almost in its entirety, the only item still partly to be
disbursed being the construction of the building to house the central
offices of FIRA in Morelia, Michoacan.
2.2.2     In supporting the FIRA, the Bank, in addition to providing
major resources for agriculture, has succeeded in: (a) improving the
economic, financial and technical strength of the agricultural subloans;
(b) increasing the funds allocated to low-income producers;
(c) improving production support services by training and augmenting the
number of experts, including those of the participating banks;
(d) helping to improve sector policies in conjunction with the reduction
of interest-rate subsidy.



- 22 -
2.2.3     With respect to supervision, the Bank focused on those areas
of the country receiving the bulk of the resource flow, such as the
northeast and north (Sinaloa, Sonora and Chihuahua). As its average
participation in the periods running from 1983 to 1988 amounted
approximately to 37.7% of the total resources transacted by FIRA in its
annual discount programs, this supervision was very helpful in
confirming the confidence which the Bank has placed in FIRA regarding
the optimal use of the resources channeled to the subprojects whose
characteristics make them technically, economically and financially
viable.
2.2.4     It is important to point out that during the execution of Loan
2610-NE the Bank's flexibility as regards disbursements was severely
restricted by the prevailing interest rates as well as the margtns of
financial intemediation granted to the participating banks because of
the economic crisis, as well as the inflation occurring at that time.
This situation contrasts with the conditions under which loan 2454-ME
was executed, when the Bank was more open to negotiation, so that the
loan was disbursed in a very short time (one year) although the amount
involved was greater than under loan 2610, which allowed FIRA enough
financial liquidity to meet large resource requirements submitted
cyclically.
2.2.5     The project was evaluated by Bank staff and outside
consultants. Much of the evaluation was performed by consultants
working with FIRA technical staff, which was considered very useful to
the Bank as it thus had the opportunity to appraise and observe, through
eyes other than those of either institution, the evaluation and
monitoring criteria applied by FIRA as institutional policy over many
years.
3. The Role of the Executing Agency
2.3.1     During project implementation the following particularly
interesting points were noted within the executing agency, FIRA:
a)   The gap between the interest rates of agricultural credits, on
the one hand, was being closed by periodic adjustmeuts for all
types of producer, which led to the effective application of
varying interest rates to the producer, as well as their
indexing with respect to the banks' cost of raising funds.
b)   At the start of this project's implementation, a producer
category existed that lay halfway between low-*ncome producers
and medium-income producers (PINs). In line with its standing
policy of keeping its operational p'rocedures up-to-date and
realistic, FIRA took an important step in the history of the
institution by reducing the number of producer categories to
two: low-income (PBI) and other (OP).
c)   The foregoing notwithstanding, the Bank never agreed to
consider FlRA's proposals relating to a revision of the



-23-
indicator concerning the PBI category (1,000 times ihe daily
minimum wage of the region in question), although that minimum
wage has been proved to have declined rather significantly
since 1985. Even if the use of this parameter has not been
agreed between the Bank and FIRA, the latter will continue to
insist on that revision.
d)   Excellent progress was made in offering support services and
technical assistance, especially to PBIs, with the
incorporation of the external advisors program (PAE), which
facilitates the use of ground-floor technical assistance
services by producers or associations. At the outset this
program was in principle charged to FIRA, but an effort was to
be made halfway through to have producers pay for services as
they were integrated into the productive process. More than
600 specialists have now been hired to provide their expertise
in the various areas of production.
e)   The system for monitoring and evaluating results has been
expanded with the inclusion of agroindustrial and fisheries
projects. Beginning in 1984 and during project implementation
a sampling of 814 enterprises that received FIRA funding in
1983 were monitored. From 1988 to the present a new sample of
about 950 enterprises that received FIRA funding in 1987 are
being monitored in the context of a stage where the evaluation
activity initiates a decentralization process at the Regional
Office level. The relevant analysis attempts to quantify the
changes in enterprises following the receipt of credit, as
compared with the prior situation. The results are also
compared with the changes observed at the macroeconomic level.
In this connection it should be noted that even though the
Bank had agreed to contribute to the financing of this
aetivity with resources earmarked for productive support,
mainly through the hiring of consultants or the training of
experts, FIRA found it preferable to carry out those
activities, both technical and financial, with its own
resources.
4. Categories of Beneficiaries
2.4.1     Initially the project included three beneficiary categories,
PBI, PIK and OP. However, reviews of those categories in January 1985
resulted in their reduction to two: low-income producers (PBIs) and
other producers (OPs).
5. Project Cost and Financing
2.5.1     Total project cost was Nex$1,149,900,000 compared with the
initial estimate of Mex$764 million. The IBRD's participation was 39%
and FIRA's 34%, the investment of the banks participating in the
projects was 14% in all and the producers contributed 21% [sic]. The



- 24 -
imported component financed within the project amounted to US$517.5 or
45%, of which the Bank financed approximately US$181.1 million or 35%.
2.5.2     FIRA rediscounted 80.3% of the total funds through the
commercial banking system and 19.7% through the Development Bank. Of
the amounts discounted with the Development Bank,' 96.5% was rediscounted
to BANRURAL, 1.9% to the National Fisheries and Ports Bank and 1.6% to
National Financing. Of the commercial banks' operations 38.9% was for
PBIs, 16.4% for PINs, 39.6% for OPs and 5.1% for agroindustries, while
BANRURAL operations concentrated heavily on PBIs, with 91.6% of its
credits channeled to that producer group.
6. Characteristics of the InvestM=nts and Subloans
2.6.1     FIRA's investments in the project broke down by branch as
follows: 50.3% of project costs to annual crops, 5.1% to perennial
crops, 36.4% to livestock and 8.2% to agroindustry.
2.6.2     Of the annual crop investments the largest share, 44.2%, went
to the establishment of crops, followed by 41.7% for procurement of
machinery and equipment. In perennial crops the largest investment,
43.7% again went to the establishment of crops, followed by 28.5% for
construction, rural installations and irrigation works. In livestock
the largest investments were made to purchase live animals, and
constructions, rural installations and irrigation works with 64% and
22.5%, respectively [sic]. Agroindustrial investments were mainly
intended to support canning and meatpacking enterprises, fodder plants,
sawmills and activities related to fishing.
SUPPORT SERVICES
2.6.3     The production support component was used in its entirety
after a special allocation of US$1 millidn was made in loan 2610-NE, in
which no provision for that type of expenditure had been included. The
resources were used to support the establishment and operation of
Demonstration Centers and for the training of experts from FIRA and
participating banks as well as PBIs.
2.6.4     With the project, FIRA increased the number of its
Demonstration Centers, which include a wide range of agricultural
activitl.s such as basic crops, milk, fodder, fruit trees, meat, smaller
species, irrigation systems and agroindustry. After doubling its
outlays on Demonstration and Training Centers in 1981, FIRA had to cut
them from 1984 on and is now complying with the government's austerity
program.
2.6.5     In the period 1980-1987, FIRA expanded its training programs.
The number of courses rose from 525 in 1980 to 1,247 in 1986, [serving
10,083 and 3,220 experts from FIRA and participating banks,
respectively, and 11,451 producers].



- 25 -
DISBURSEMENTS
2.6.6     Loan 2454-ME was totally disbursed in approximately one year
(August 1984 to August 1985), including US$20 million for expenditures
incurred prior to the signing date of the contracts (August 8, 1984),
and US$91.2 million to finance short-term loans (working capital).
Originally this loan was to have been disbursed in four years (September
30, 1988). Given the speedy disbursement, the Bank, foreseeing that
FIRA might run short of cash, authorized an extension of US$180 million
(loan 2610-ME) while the analyses necessary for a new loan were being
carried out.
2.6.7     Loan 2610-ME was contracted on September 26, 1985, for US$180
million, exclusively to finance medium- and long-term loans (financial
assistance). The experience of the rapid disbursement of loan 2454-ME
led to the expectation that 2610-ME would be disbursed in a shorter
period, and a closing date of December 1, 1986 was considered. However,
the economic problems that affected Mexico from late 1985 through all of
1986 decreased the demand for financial-assistance credit considerably,
so that disbursements were well below projections. By December 1986
(the planned closing date), US$52 million remained undisbursed even
though transfers of US$25 million for working capital loans and US$1
million for traizing were authorized.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SUBLOANS
2.6.8     This project made possible, during its implementation, a
substantial decrease in subsidies via interest rates, the latter being
revised approximately every six months or less. In 1984, interest rates
varied between 27a and the CPP plus 7 points; the CPP ranged from 56 to
47%. Two adjustments, one in April and one in October, were made in
1985. In the first adjustment the rates stayed at 29.5% and CPP plus 8
points; in April the CPP was 51.93%. In October of that year the
interest rates were revised again, the lowest being set at 37.5% and the
highest at CPP plus 8 points (62.29%).
2.6.9     During 1984 and 1985 the rates that were below the CPP applied
to PBI, PIN and Op basic products which represented for FIRA
approximately 95% of its discounts, and only the rates applying to OP
Other Products, which include non-priority products, were above the CPP.
2.6.10    Interest rates were revised again in March and August 1986.
The March revision established for the first time interest rates which,
in addition to being indexed to the CPP, were variable in line with
those in effect at the time the credits were recovered. In that way the
minimum rate was 65% of the CPP for PBIs and 100% of the CPP for OPs.
In August of that same year the rates to PBIs were adjusted upwards to
75% of the CPP minus 4 points, this being the minimum rate applicable to
FIRA's entire PBI portfolio, generated from March 1, 1986 forward.
During that year the CPP ranged from 68.55 in January to 95.33 in
December, wXth an average of 80.88. The working capital loans had an



_ 26 -
interest rate 4 points higher than the one applied to financial
assistance loans.
2.6.11    In 1987 the interests were revised twice.  In Nay, 65% of the
CPP was established for financial assistance loans to PBIs as a minimum
rate, and 108% of the CPP as the higher interest rate for working
capital loans and for Other Producers, In order to align lending
operations with the general trend governing interest rates in the market
since October 31, 1987, the minimum rate changed to 70% of the CPP and
the higher to 110s of the CPP.
2.6.12    The CPP, which corresponds to tho period of January to
September 30, 1987, the closing date of this loan, ranged from 95.89% to
91.02%, averaging 94.3% for an increase of no less than 23 percentage
points over the preceding year at the same time, even though the CPP
dropped by 4.87 points in the period January-September.
2.6.13    The minimum contributions characterizing the producer
categories were 10% for PBIs and 20% for OPs, and the parameters used to
rank the producers were 1,000 times the region's rural minimum wage for
PBIs and 1,001 times and up times that wage for OPs.
2.6.14    Under the terms of GIRA, the Government of Mexico committed
itself to reducing the subsidies via interest rates by 50% in real terms
by January 12, 1988, through a combination of the following:
a)   A gradual adjustment of interest rates to 90% of the CPP in
credits to PBIs, with biannual adjustments in January 1987
(80% of the CPP); July 12, 1987 (85% of the CPP) and January
1988 (90% of the CPP).
b)   A larger interest-rate differential between working capital
loans and financial assistance loans.
c)   A revised definition of low-income producers.
2.6.15    It should be noted that at the time this report is being
prepared the interest-rate subsidy has been reduced through several
adjustments marked by the SHCP, inasmuch as the rates are currently
indexed to the CETES 28-days rate.
7. Lessons Learned from the Proiect
2.7.1     Generally speaking, the objectives set in the evaluation of
the loan application were achieved. FIRA succeeded in increasing the
flow of credit to low-income producers (PBIs), although that increased
the decapitalization which had to be made up for with public funds. Of
the total credit granted, 50.4% went to PBIs. The financial and
economic profitability rates, calculated on a credit sample, are on
average very similar to the estimates effected during loan appraisal.
FIRA also strengthened its institutional structute, continued the
program for decentralizing operations, improved its credit appraisal



-27-
procedures, stepped up its technical assistance services through the
establishment of new demonstration centers and improved its training
programs. In addition, a new technical assistance service (PAE) was
introduced, with expert consultants hired directly by the producers and
financially supported by FIRA, in the first few years, with excellent
results.  The levels of subsidy through interest rates diminished as a
result of three measures:
a)   A redefinition of producer categories left only two--PBI and
OP--while the former category PIM was included in the OP
group.
b)   Interest rates charged to producers were linked to the CPP.
c)   A system of variable interest rates was established.
2.7.2     Bearing in mind the country's credit policy and general
economic conditions, the supply of institutional agricultural credit in--
Mexico was expanded. Output and productivity were generally increased
in all spheres. Annual crop yields were kept above the national
averages, and productivity rose from pre-loan levels for the great
majority of the crops under consideration. The evaluation showed
production by enterprises to have increased, mainly because of the
increase in the area under cultivation. This means that the goals of
raising the output and productivity indexes of finaa!_eable agricultural
commodities, and creating and expanding agroindustries, ware met.
2.7.3     It is further evident that the role of technical assistance in
achieving better output levels is very important. Working capital
increased,by 320 in real terms, so that producers are better able to
work at peak efficiency.  The present difficult situation in Mexico has
reduced the demand-for credit;-nevertheless, most of the money that was
borrowed went for investments in machinery and equipment, with the
establishment of crops in second place.
CREDIT POLICIES AND MEASURES TO MODERNIZE FIRA
2.7.4     FIRA policies in the short and-medium term will be tied to the
Federal Government's economic-development guidelines and strategies, in
order to achieve a quantitatively and qualitatively greater
participation within the agricultural sector.
2.7.5     It is necessary to stress FIRA's importance as a generator of
balanced economic development, thanks to its coordination, guidance and
management endeavors. The steps planned for credit modernization entail
the active participation of the agricultural producers as well as the
participating banks, so that they may modernize- their production systems
and become more competitive in the new, more open business environmert.
The first step will be to delegate more functions to the participating
banks. leaving FIRA greater freedom to)carry out its functions as a
Second-Floor Banking System. The second will be to define credit



- 28 _
policies for the agricultural sector, while continuing nonetheless to
exercise appropriate supervision over that operative system.
2.7.6     The measures undertaken in furtherance of 'nstitutional
modernization include the following:
-   Modernization of the countryside and the rural environment
will be promoted by offering additional financing and services
in support of projects responding directly to the needs of
producers, of an improved rural environment and of
comprehensive rural development.
-    Credit selectivity measures will be established, aimed
primarily at the self-liquidity of the financings.
=   The "Zonal Evaluation" procedure will be implemented, based on
computational systems and user records.
=   To enhance service to banks it will be necessary to determine
in timely fashion the annual financing needs of agricultural
enterprises, and the established formats for operational and
technical procedures will be simplified.
2.7.7     As a component of the structure through which the Federal
Government extends support to the agricultural sector, FIA engages in
ongoing coordination efforts with all domestic credit corporations,
state governments, producers and their organizations, and research and
educational institutions.



2~ ~~2
- 29 -
PROJEC~T COHPJZUON REPORT
EIGHT  AnDITRUM  ACLTRLCREDIT PROJECTS*
PART Ills STATISTICAL TABLES
*For the sake of clarity. Loan 26lo-MR, the Agricultural Credit Project.
is hereln 'called the Interim Agricultural Credit Projeqct.



-31 -
PART III
Table I
Page 1 of1
RELATED BANK LOAS AND/OR CREDI
Lan 2454-ME and 265ME
LoanCmedt                                 Dete of
Nunbr and Title    Objectvs                Approv      status
1891-ME M/  Provide continued financial   70040        Completed
Vil Agri    support through FIRA, to public
Credft     and commercia banks for lending
perations In likto  cropk ,
and agroindustries. The loan
alo supports nsttutional
dJevelupmet and technical
misance to farmers.
2262-ME _l  Improve efficiency of the     419-83       On-golng
Agric.     marketing system for perishables
Maketing
2837-ME S   ProWide continued financial    -17487      Ongoing
IX Agric.    support to brmers, through
Credit     rediswcounts from FIRA and FICART,
to raise agricultural productivt
so as to Increase food producton,
agricultural exports, resf farm
Income, and rural employment;
also to suppo Ins onal
development and technical
assistance to farmers
Previous agricultural credit project.
J  This loan is a credn pro lectwith part of the funds also channeled through 7iRA.
This opeation Is a cotnuation of loans 2454-ME and 2610-ME



_ 33 -
PART III
Table 2
Page 1 ot 4
,PROJEC TIMETABLE
Loan 2454ME
Date                Date                Actual
Stags                     Planned             RoVie                   Di"
Identifcaton                          July 82            Sept- OR            18"Nov-2
Preparation I                         Feb. 83                                 7-Feb43
Preparation 2                        June 83              Aug. 83           19-Sept-83
Appraisal Mission                     April 83             July 83            2Nov43
Loan Negotiatons                    March 84              April 84           4June4
Board Approval                        Nov. 83             April 84          27-June84
Signature Date                      8-Aug484                                  8-Aug-4
nate of Effctveness                 6-Nov84              6-Dec84              3-Dec44
Completon Date                   3-March48                                   21-Jan-S6
Closing Date                      30-Sept-88                                30Sept-88
~, loin dte asno aendd itouh te oa wiy  ebse bJrwaryfub , 1086.m
of low-wcom    rolngigItrs ae nln with commelbia rates reduci  assldles; efniio
_   _~~~~                                  ~      ~~~~ bSeps hdxm   a
finaning fs; d                 r l ; actof BANRuHALfrII a B
exectn agecy and Ih need for hnproan codiaon f th brinn anwd te_ialmac lawsoo
lrom vaiu amcla Total project cost esim_ d at US$1 bibn at Wdetlcaon later reued to US$670
mFIio  debbng p usnbid.hi       ^ R          s le          gid                  R
scies bl X a asector. To l projectcsincluding cotn_nla vmrcliae  tUS$840
devaluationaof th  Mecan peso; the B s Jan    d be for US$300 mOkn.
N      e  hintrestonwblnsto be in acordncwh GIRA; ihcr          ini bdeposin th
to US$30 li  retroac  in      d us$  milOn; comrci  aw' eiibuty for
coninuopr ticpat con et on a m        m        1%ae   e irsuboan prat
_etended by      of the Medcan Gov m GOM also rques d an          in h
ii 190a mal USIV fm Uha



="l I                                                                                   vW
cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C4   a      ES 
cl                                               a~~~~~ 
4uhj
0 jI~~~~V 04q~                                                        j



- 35 -
PART IlIl
Table 2
Page 3 of 4
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Loan 2610-ME
Date             Date             Actual
Stage                 Planned          Revised             Date
Preparation/Review Mission March 1985                         March 1985
Loan NegotIations            13-May-85                         30-May-85
Board Approval              25-June-85                         23-July45
Signature Date                                                 26-Sept485
Date of Eflectiveness      August 1985         19Jan-46         17-Dec85
CompletIon Date              l-June-86       30-Sept-87        30-Sept-87
Closing Date                  1-Dec-86       30-Sept-87        30-Sept47
IsY
hbmis an Irbim la; no appraisal reponstwas isued.
Dibumenwfte lagging behind because FIRA was exhausin funds frm an IDB oan;  asa resul, t loan
1osing date had to be xdtended to allow FIRA to fully dIsbu  th loan



- 36 -
PART III
Table 2
Page 4 of 4
PROJECT SCHEDULE
Loan 2610ME
1234  1234  1234
Quarter
Year            1985   1986   1987
Preparation               X
Loan Negotlations EC
Board Approval             X
"'Ignature Date               X
Date of Effectiveness       -X=
Completion Date                 |    = = = X
Closing Date                -        =
Year            1985   1986   1987
Quarter          lI       I 
1234  1234  1234
Scheduled: -      Revised: ===       Actual: X



- 37 _
PART III
Table 3
Page 1 of I
DISTIBUTION OF LOAN RESOURCES BY CATEGORY OF BENEFICIARY
Loan 244ME   2610-ME
(In US$ mililon)
SAR         ACTUAL
DISTRIBUTION  DISTRIBUTION
CATEGORY OF BENEFICIARY
US$   %       US$   %
Investnent Loans
a. Low-income Producers /          188.0  39.2   173.9  36.2
b. Other Produces                  170.0  35.4   137.8  28.7
c. Agroindustrles (alUproducers) g/   27.0  5.6     9.9  2.1
Workina CaDital Loans
a. Low-Income Producers             58.3  12.1    88.7  18.5
b. Other Producers                  33.0  6.9    67.2  14.0
Supoort Services                     3.0  0.6       2.0   OA
Loan Fee                             0.7  0.1       0.7  0.1
Total                         480.0 100.0   480.0 100.0
Al  Agroindustries loans are Included In each of the three categories of
benefticlarles for Loan 2610-ME
t/ In November 1986, loan agreement 2610-ME was ammended to eliminate
Cateory 2 Beneficlaries (medium-Income producers) and redefine
Category 3 (Other Producers) to Include all farmers with annual family
Incomes over 1,000 tUmes the daily minimum rural wage for their region.
For the purpose of this table, the medlum-ncome producers category
was also combined with and listed under "Other Pr'ducers" for Loan
2454-ME
,/ This category applies only to loan 2454-ME.
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



- 39 -
PART m
Table4
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COSTS BY SOURCE OF FINANCINr
LQn 2454--M
LoAN          Revised
NM=           May 24, 1985      Actual bI
SOURCE                           (US$m)  %    (US$ m)   %    (US$ m)   %
IBRQ alt
Cal. 1: Medium and Long-Term Subloans           205.0  26.86   207.0  27.191   181.4  23.7
A. Low-income producers
Crops                                    65.0   8.5      65.0   8.5%    49.2   6.6%
LUvestock                                33.0   4.3      45.0   5.9%    50.2   6.7%
B. Medium-income producers
Crops                                    23.0   3.0f    44.0   5.8%    31.3   4.29
Uvestock                                 20.0   2.68    30.0   3.9       24.2   3.2%
C. Other producers
Crops                                    20.0   2.6%    10.0   1.39       9.1   1.2t
Uvestock                                 17.0   2.29      1.0   0.1%      7.5   1.0%
D. Agrolduses                                27.0   3.5%    12.0   1.6%       9.9   1.39
CaL 2: Short-Term Subloans                       9't it          91* .3  11.9%   117.2    0.2
A. Low-Income producers                      58.3   7.68    58.3   7.6%    69.6   9.3%
B. Medium-Income producems                   18.0   2.49    33.0   4.39    35.2   4.79
C. Oter producers                            15.0   2.0       -      0.0%    12.3   1.7%
Cat. 3 C1idworks, equpnme   sonslt nservices       .                              0.7   0.1%
and taIing
Cat. 4: Fee                                        7    0.10 0.7    019           0.7   0.1
PRODUCERS
PARTICIPATING BANKS
FIRA
al By catory of disbursement. Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.
b/ Actual figures for IBRO are actual amounts disbursed waccording to Report LOA1060. IBRD
Loan Department Actual figures for Participating Banks and Fira are those shown In the
-informe de Terminacion del Octavo Proyecto FIRA-BIRF," FIRA, Banco de Mexico.



PROJECT COSTS BY SOURCE OF FINANCING
lIn 2610iM
Revised         Revised
Planned a/    November 1986   Au  st 1987       Actual bl
SOURCE                      (US$ m)F       (US$ m)   O    (lus$           (US$ m)  
IBRD cd                                    180.0  38.1    180.0  38.1    180.0  38.1    180.0   40.7%
Cat. 1: Medium- and Long-Term Subloans
- Subloans to Cat 1 Beneficiaries       90.0  19.0%    78.0  16.5%    70.5  14.9t    74.5   16.80
- Subloansto Cat. 2 Beneffciaries       80.0  16.90/   76.0  16.1%    68.5  14.5%    65.7   14.8%
- Subloans to Cat. 3 Beneficiaries     10.00    2.1%      dl   --       ---    -        -
Cat 2: Short-Term Subloans
- Subloansto Cat 1 Beneficiaries                --      12.5   2.6%    20.0   4.2EV    19.1    4.3%
- Subloans to Cat. 2 Beneficiaries      _ -    -        12.5   2.6V    20.0   4.2.    19.7    4.5E              o
Cat 3: Support Services                 _                    1.0   0.2%      1.0   0.20/    1.1    0.2N
Revolving Fund  el                                                                          -0.1
PRODUCERS                                7.* 7.1.0  15.                     710  415.0     84.8   19.
PARTICIPATING BANKS                        .71.0   1.        1.0  15.01   71.0  15.000  60.1   13.68
FIRA                                      . 151.0   31.9    151.0.  31.9    151.0   1.9 . 117.5   26.69i
al  Source: Loan 2610-ME, President's Report, World Bank, June 28, 1985.
bl  Source: Actual figures for IBRD are those actually disbursed from each category, according to data
00
provided by the Loan Department. Figures for other financiers are those presented                         00 c 
In the 'Informe de Terminacion del Octavo Proyecto FIRA-BIRF,' FIRA, Banco de Mexico.                      ,
cl  By disbursement category, Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.                                                a
dl  In Novemt er 1986. the Loan Agreement was amended to redefine Category 2 Beneficiary to include
all farmers with annual family Incomes over 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage for their region.
Category 3 Beneficiaries was eliminated.
el Overdrawn amount In the Special Account.



41        ,PART III
_ 41 -                             Table 5
Page 1 O 2
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACrUAL D lSSURSEBMt
LOAN 2454-ME
On milUon of US$)
Cumulative Disbursements             WORLD BANK FISCAL YEARS
(As of June 30)      1985     1986  1198 1 1988   198
Appraisal Estmate               80.0    155.0    235.0    295.0    300.0
% of Total                      26.7     51.7     78.3      98.3    100.0
Actual                         228.7    300.0       _
% of Total                      76.2    100.0   _                     -
Date of Final D  isursment January 21, 1986
30I
42001
_                                                            I
i1
w-                            .- 
ts             tt7                                       
0  ~     o tt+



-42-                                PART III
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
LOAN 2610-ME
(In million of US$)
Cumulative Dlsbursements    WORLD BANK FISCAL YEARS
(As of Jjne 30)     1986      1987     1988
Appraisal Estimate             160.0    180.0    180.0
% ofTotal                       83.3    100.0      -
Actual                          92.3    136.6    180.0
%of Total                       51.3     75.9    100.0
Date of Final Disburfsment December 22,1987
IO
170-
140-
130 
120 
Ms '
Go . 
to
30 
20
10
135                   SBUS                  19117
O Edi.t         + ~tu



- 43 -
PART IIl
Table 6
Page 1 of I
DIRECT BENEFITS
Loan 245E  and 2654-ME
Appraisal
Indicators         Unft      Estimate !/     Actual 1I
BENEFCIAR:IES          families       105,000         118,760
Individuals   580,000          593,800
YIELDS OF KEY PRODUCTS
CROPS
Maize (rainfed)        tone/ha          1.7             1.7
Beans (rainfed)        tons/ha          11              0.6
Wheat (Irrigated)      tons/ha          r).0            4.6
Sorghum (Irrigated)    tons/ha          15              4.9
Cotton(Irrigated)      tons/ha          3.2             3.0
Mango                  tons/ha          10.0            9.4
Bananas                tons/ha          30.0            28.3
Apples                 tons/ha          20.0            11.8
- tookna Rates
Aid AMi i50f          animal           0.09            n/a
Tropical Dual Purpose    unIs p/ha     1.5             1.0
- Milk Production
TroI011           liters            800             160 ct
Central Plateau       liters          3,500           3,220 pI
Source: Staff Appraisal Report Loan 2454-ME, World Bank, June 4,1984.
W Source: "Informe de Terminaclon del Octavo Proyecto FIRA-BIRF,
Prestamos 2454-ME y 2610-ME," FIRA, Banco de Mexico.
Milk produced In relaton to cultivated area.
Milk produced by dairy cattle only.



- 44 -
PART III
Table 7
Page I of 1
-RTES OF REFURN
Lam 2254-ME and 261 0ME
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE            6CTUAL
F_nanclal  Economic     FlnanciUL le
Rainfed Annual Crops     23%        27%       31.2%-31.6%   Over 50%
lrigated Annual Crops    31%        54%       246%-26.4%   Over 50%
Dual Purpose Cattle      35%        19%       17.0%-24.4%  17.6%-22.1%
Egg ProductIon           35%     over 100%         n/a         n/a
Feed MlII                26%        28%            n/a         n/a
Milk Production           -          -        23.8%-26.8%  11.9%-13.2%
ai source: "Informe de Terminaclon del Octavo Proyecto FIRA-BIRF," FIRA,
Banco de Mexico.



_ 45 -
PART III
Table 8
Page 1 of l
SUPPORT SERVICES COMPONENT
Lon 4M E and 2610-ME
Ooeratina Expendltures for Tralning and Demonstration Centers
(In US$'000)
1984           1985          1986
TlamIng                   3,768          2,828          2,841
Centers       1,932          29489          1,448
TOTAL                     5,700          5,317          4,287
Number of Tralnina Courses and Particlpants
1984           1985          1986
Partlcloants
RRAT      _dhniS       3,754           3,091        10,083
4,103          1,516         3,220
7,885          4,727         11,451
Total                  15,742         109234        24,754
Couf8"                     82              797          1,247
Soure: "Informe de Teminaclon del Octavo Proyecto FIRA-BIRF, Prestmos
2454-ME y 2656-ME," FIRA, Sanco de Mexico.



-47-
PART III
Table 9
Page I of 2
STATUS OF COVENTS
LoE 24 E and Loan W26OME 
Deadline
Covenant           Subject         For Compliance      Sus
LOAN AREEMENT.
Secton 1.02 (h)   Definitlon of Category I  n/a   According to GOM's
Beneficiarytas having            all eJldatrios are
an Income of lees than           claified as low-
1,000 times the daily            Income producers.
minimum wage                     It Is not clear If
eidataros with
Income In excs of
the amount specfied
In the Loan Agrmt
were excluded from
COt I Beneficiaries
Secton 4.02     Audit of the Special   Annually  Compiled wthl
Account
amt~~m
Section 2.02 (d)   Suspensionof ElIibility  n/a   Generally compiled
Partiipating Banks whenever      wlth About half
arears under such loans          of the Banks did
exceed r15%of the aate           not repo on
outstandIng amountofthese        arreasto FIRA
loan                            on a timely basis
Section 2.04    Request of Bank's approl   n/a    Compiled with
for subloans In excess of
US$800,000
Section 2.05    Employment of Consuants  n/a      Complied with
Secton 2.06     Procurement               n/a     Complied with
Sectlon 2.07 (b)   Progress Reports   Periodically CompOed with



- 48 -
PART ill
Table 9
Page 2 of 2
Deadline
Covenant           Subject         For Compilance     Stews
PROJECT AGREEMN (cont)
Sectlon 3.0143.02   Audit of Project   Annually  Delayed but complied
Accounts, FlIRA's                with.
Financlal Statements
and opinion on SOEs
Schedule 2, 1.B    Credit Policles:
Benet. Contribution      n/a     Compled with
Paic. Banks Contr.
Rediscount Percentages
Lending terms and        n/a     Compled with
grace periods
Schedule 2, 1.B    Credit Policies:
Interest Rates on    Periodically Compiled with
Subloans to be re-               aer protrad
adjusted according               neotiations
to GIRA _W
MargIns to be used by    n/a
Participating Banks
In rediscounting or;
otherwise financing
subloans
1V Loan 281 0-ME Is an Interim loan. Sections of the loan agreements and status of
covenants are the same for both loans.
_y General Interest Rates Agreement between the Bank and the Goverment of
Mexico slgned on August 7, 1984.
n/a = not appilcable



_ 49 _
PART IlIl
Table 10
Page 1 of 2
USE OF StAFF RESOURCES
La 2454-ME
)STAFF INPUT(weeks) FY62 FY3 FY4 F"5  FY6  F67 FY88 TO
ldent/Prep.        0.55 16.24  5.96                          22.75
AppraIsal                     61.62                          61.62
Negotiatons                    3.68                           3.68
Supervision                    0.07 12.80 10.91  4.32  0.91  29.01
Total Staff Weeks  0.5S  16.24 71.33 12.80 10.91  4.32  0.91 117.06
Total
Defte Number of Staff weeks
SoS            CMV)  persons   In VW Fiel
Id ntIfIcatIon        11182     3           6                 f
Preparaton 1          02183     1           1                 a
Prepamaon 2           09/83     1           2                 f
AppraIsal             11/83     6          14           e,fa,ae,c
Supervsion 1          08/84     2           4                ftc
Supervision 2         01/85     3           35             e,f,a
Supervision 3         11/85     1           0.5               f
Supervision 4         01/87     2           1                f,oe
SupervisIon 5 (partIal)   0618  1           0.2              as
a - economist, as = agricultural economist; a = agriculturalist;
f  financhl analyst; c = credit specialist
Source: Project Flies and Baniks MIS.



- 50 -
PART III
Table 10
Page 2 of 2
USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
Loan 26t10-E
STAFF INPUT(weeks)    FYN5      FY86      FY8      FY8      TOWl
Ident.IPrep.            1.96      60                         7.96
Negotltons                        676.67
Supervlbn                         6.31     10.11    6*8    22.40
Total Staff Weeka       1.96     11.98     10.11    6.98   37.03
Towa
Dai  Number of  S   weelalt
MISSOS            (MM    pmon       In hFeld F
Preprtion            06/85     1           1.5              f
Supervision 1        11/85     1           0.5              f
Supervlsion 2        05/86     3           6             a,e,t
Supervlson 3        09/86     1           0.6  -
SupervIslon.4        01/87     2           1.5             e,t
Supenison 5          09/87     3           3            ae,e,t
SupervIsIon 6 (partIl    06/87  1          0.2             as
e = economIst, a   agrelulu?nal eonomIst; a  agriculturalit;
f = financIal analyst; c = ciedlt speols
Source: Project Files and Banks MIS
Note: This Is an Interim loan. There was no appraial mbsIon-
2~~                                     !.'
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FIRA 
TOTAL NUMER OF LOANS GRANTED BY FitA TYPE OF WAN AND CATBaORY OF PRODUCER
BY TYPE OF LOAN, CATEORY OF PRODUCER, AND MBER OF BEFCAI
TYPE OF LOAN          1983             1984            1985             1986            1987             1988
# OP     OU    #OP F#OP F   OP    F OP    F OP    # OF             OP F#OF    fOP    #OP
CAT. OF BENEF.    LOANS  BENEF. LOANS  BENEP. LOANS  BDNEP. LOANS  BENEF. LOANS  BENEP. LOANS  BENEP.
=          =    ~_                                  _
WOF    'CAn ,    3                    ,069: 50,6   8*,. 6            65         4   ...,1. 00,9    1.63  680,931
PBI               32.433 247,129  34,343 414,427  37,317 410,445  29,733 458,016  31,570 495,743  27,227 532,690
PIM               31.177  54,908  34,744 102,919  33,647 188,141        -       -       -        -       -       -
OP                19,692  54,971  16,982  44,942  18,168  57,827  38,847 175,428  25,626 107,754  24.409 148,241
INV~8TMENT.        19,862 240,03.  *,    2,6    29,01  338,267  16,0 2 3 .1816 .6.,093  19,056 291.469
PBI                7,887 180,042   9,189 178,181  11,628 234.899   8.898 234,039   9,120 235,886   8,716 242,125
PIM                7,948  40,912  10,432  42,848  12,371  61,446        -       -       -        -       -       -
OP                 4,027  25,084   4,304  12,846   5,019  41,922   8,002  38,193   9,043  50,207  10,340  49,364
PBI               40,320 427,171  43,532 592,608  48.945 645,344  38,631 692,055  40,690 731,629  35.943 774,815
PIM               39,125  95,820  45,276 145,767  46.018 249,587        -       -       -        -       -       -
OP                23,619  80,055  21,286  57,788  23,187  99,749  46,849 213,621  34,669 157,961  34,749 197,605
SOURCE: Microfiches; FIRA - Dvsion de Coinputo Electronlco.                                                        g V g
0 c



-WEHTED INTRIATION MARGINS TO PARTICIPATMNG BANKS
(Nominal percentage points by type of loans) *
AVERAGE WORKING
CAPITAL LOAN     AVERAGE INVESTMENT LOAN
YEAR           AVERAGE MINIMUM MAXIMUM    Pal          OP        PSI         OP
1980               2.58     2.00     3.75     2.00      2.00     3.50         2.83
1981   -           2.85     2.00     5.75     2.75      2.00     3.50         3.16
1982               5.14     3.00     7.00     5.12      4.87     5.25         5.31
1983               6.37     6.00     7.00     6.00      6.75     6.00         6.75
1984 -             6.37     6.00     7.00     6.00      6.75     6.00         6.75
1985               6.37     6.00     7.00     6.00      6.75     6.00         6.75
1986               7.83     6.00     9.63     7.91      7.46     7.93         8.01
1987               9.45     9.00    10.43     9.46      9.41     9.46         9.46
1988               8.46     4.00    13.59     8.94      7.99     8.46         8.46
1989               4.80     4.70     4.94     4.80      4.80     4.80         4.80
As ot June 1989    6.66     5.00     6.00     6.00      5.00     6.00 *^      6.00 *
* SOURCE: BANCO DE MEXICO, FIRA. Division de Operacdon del Credito.
* Includhng April.
**^ Estimated.
1- H
O FN Nu
N



..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [  o    o BRD 11789R2
/  \    EXICti"",                                                                                                                                                  t 4__r  UNITED) STATES        <A/Pl
S   |  \   >  ~~~~'-  #   ,'p  l ~~U  N    I  T    E  D                             S    T  A    T  E    S||                                                 '           .(q 
-30-                                                                                                                                                                          W7. _    H1iAU   /        > .4-   A ___  AiU
t   _H2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---g  ce   A 99  @   ji  S}                \.>                  4,               \    ,                                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~30-  $LVAI~  A
.   I   .   \S  \   0    ^ *    gz   >   '  I C O A H U I t AA  p         CA66                                       r                            l '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSA IC
|~~~~~ 0                      S 0: fI           N    iR    * A,' , ' : I
62 C t. 27 , s \ \<APA CAA DLi R S 1.G0                                  -  J                                    ........................... g .-o <.
~~ - 15          \    gt               z  ng           D~~~~~~~~~HURANUA                                                                                           wf t  -aX'  fd?t /ro    
------CJ    -*_ -w9                                                                                                                                                     w-wsAl      oTAUIA'i/X 
| *  0    MEXICO  ,   W I-x\ g622)4sw                                                               ,    r    O;  <_ _0 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t ftM. r
v  E  KRICWE'RE CRB etnimEtIc '. } t &txJ+t < & & , ' fMeRb @ 14- -~~~C-p"V_T"d_-
-~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        H Iitibto   oft FiAOi0iiWETA4A    r+      t 8 X          >    >                                           ,ti                            1
- ~   ~      _                                 i A>L| SC            OtzpU                  >Att{W;  1- -                                 ;         Sve{Ji,NU  t.  20 
|~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                      A H USi r  I L Ak                ce                                                    
l~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ .   *  ntrJooiBudot  -            /M                                                          \               A   C} A                                             |EZ 
.  _  . o i . ; R o ) StStlJ T~~~~~~~~~~~0 1cvH*g UR,^GtedNEZi 
,   ,   ;    1                                                    =                           t                     Wa 3    CI>H X A P A s _ iULVO
.  .  0    t00   200   300   400   500  I                 t                                    _ >        2                s         /{   GL1ATEMALA       {/ ARREY  ATAAFO
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A



