OFFICIAL              LOAN NUMBER 2454 ME
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Eighth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MEXICO
Dited                              , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2454 HE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    A            9           , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCO DE MEXICO (hereinafter called
Banxico).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three hundred mil-
lion dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Banxico,
acting as trustee for FIRA, agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Banxico, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA,
declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall
carry out the Project described in said Schedule with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, industrial and agricultural practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, all funds and other resources which
shall be required by FIRA for purposes of the Project.
(b) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall enter into
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 2.02 (a) (ii)


﻿-2-
of the Guarantee Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, Banxico shall not change or fail to enforce any provisions
of such contractual arrangements.
(c) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall carry out
the lending operations included in Part A of the Project in
accordance with sound operational policies and in conformity with
the principles and procedures set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and FIRA Lending Policies and Operating Manual.
Section 2.02. (a) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA,
undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, all Sub-
loans included in the Project will be made on terms whereby the
Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of Banxico and the Participating Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, including the
right of the Participating Bank to: (i) require the Beneficiary
to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
industrial, agricultural, and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii) require that (A) the goods and ser-
vices to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the case of services,
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them
and, to the extent practicable, after evaluation and comparison
of quotations from at least three suppliers, and (B) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Bank and Banxico if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that the Beneficiary shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with norm-
al Lusiness practice; and that such insurance cover hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of Sub-loans to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as Banxico or
the Participating Bank shall reasonably request relating to the


﻿-3-
foregoing and to the administration, operation and financial
condition of the Beneficiary; and (vi) suspend or terminate the
right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform any of its
obligations under its contract with the Participating Bank.
(b) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA,.shall cause each
Participating Bank to exercise its rights in relation to each
Sub-loan in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Bank and Banxico; (ii) comply with its obligations in respect of
the corresponding Sub-loan; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Pro4eet.
(c) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall not make
available FIRA's credit facilities financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to any credit institution, other than those credit
institutions which currently participate in carrying out the
Prior Project, unless such credit institution has been considered
eligible by the Bank as a Participating Bank.
(d) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall suspend the
eligibility of any Participating Bank to make Sub-loans whenever
the arrears under loans made by any such Participating Bank and
discounted by FIRA exceed 15% of the aggregate outstanding amount
of such loans.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of
the Project.
Section 2.04. Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall
apply to the Bank for approval of any Sub-loan to be made under'
the Project in excess of the equivalent of eight hundred thousand
dollars ($800,000) or such other amount as shall be agreed be-
tween the Bank and the Borrower. When applying to, the Bank for
such approval, Banxico shall furnish to the Bank a -description of
the Sub-project and such technical, economic and financial data
regarding such Sub-project as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.05. In order to carry out Parts B and C of the
Project, Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall, as and when
appropriate, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to


﻿-4-
the Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
goods and civil works for Parts B and C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the local competitive procedures of the Guaran-
tor, acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.07. (a) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA,
shall, at the request of the Bank, furnish to the Bank, the
plans,  specifications,   contract  documents  and   construction
schedules  for  Part   B  of  the  Project,   and  any  material
modifications thereof or additions thereto.
(b) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall: (i) main-
tain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost), to identify the
goods and services for Parts B and C of the Project and financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in Part B of
the Project and to examine the goods for such Part of the Project
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank reports on the pro-
gress of the Project with a periodicity acceptable to the Bank
and, from time to time, all such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Banxico of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the con-
tract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Banxico and
the Bank, Banxico shall, acting as trustee for FIRA, prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as


﻿-5-
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and operation
of the Project, its cost and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
(e) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall, at the
Bank's request, enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
examine  all plants, installations, sites, works,- buildings,
pioperty and equipment of Banxico and any relevant records and
dcuments related to the carrying out of Parts B and .C of the
Project.
Section 2.08. (a) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA,
shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall promptly
inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the- Los, or the performance by Banxico of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall
from time to tiMe-assess the economic impact of representative
Sub-projects included in the Project, and exchange views with the
Bank on the conclusions of such assessment.
ARTICLWE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA,
shall maintain separate accounts and records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, receipts and payments for or in con-
nection with carrying out the Project and the use of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,


﻿-6-
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure,
and shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 3.02. Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, shall:
(a) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) of FIRA for each fis-
cal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of FIRA's financial statements for such year
as so audited;"and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors
of such supe and La such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof,. as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive,
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Banxico thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify Banxico thereof.


﻿- 7
-7-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
iscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banxico:
Banco de M4xico
5 de Mayo, 2
06059 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Cable Address:
BANXICO
MEXICO, D.F.


﻿Secti-n 3.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banxico may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as its Director
General shall designate in writing, and Banxico shall furnish to
the   Bank  sufficient   evidence  of   the  authority   and   the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico D.F.,
Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
President
BANCO DE MEXICO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The objectives of the project are to: (i) increase agricul-
tural productivity and production in the territory of the Guaran-
tor, thereby creating conditions to increase exports, improve
food self-sufficiency and increase farm income; and (ii) continue
to strengthen FIRA's institutional capabilities with a view to an
efficient allocation of financial resources. The Project consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:   Credit
Financing of Sub-projects through the provision of Sub-
loans.
Part B:   Technical Assistance          -
Expansion of FIRA's technical assistance program to promote
the adoption of new     and improved   technology among farmers,
including construction and equipping of demonstration centers,
land improvement and development, crop and forage establishment,
acquisition and utilization of agricultural machinery and equip-
ment, and acquisition of livestock.
Part C:   Support Services
(i) training of FIRA's technical staff, including fellow-
ships, overseas training, and scholarships for post-
graduate degrees.
(ii) strengthening of FIRA's planning, programming and proj-
ect-monitoring and evaluation capabilities.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Organization, Credit Policies
I.   Medium- and Long-Term Sub-loans
A.   General
1.   Banxico, acting as trustee for FIRA, will rediscount or
otherwise finance Sub-loans made by the Participating Banks.
FIRA's determination of eligibility for such financing will be
based primarily upon the appraisal as to technical feasibility
and satisfactory return on investments. Each Sub-loan will be
appraised and approved by qualified technicians of, or acceptable
to, FIRA before such Sub-loan is made. Appraisals of Sub-projects
will be reviewed from time to time by FIRA in order to determine
that such appraisals show the technical, economic and financial
viability of the Sub-projects and that the appraisals are in com-
pliance with FIRA's Lending Policies and Operating Manual.
B.   Credit Policies
2.   Participating Banks will be required to provide from their
own resources not less than 10%, 15% and 20% of the total. amount
of Sub-loans made to Category 1 Beneficiaries, Category 2 Bene-
ficiaries and Category 3 Beneficiaries, respectively. The balance
will be rediscounted or otherwise financed by Banxico, acting as
trustee for FIRA. For this purpose, Banxico, acting as trustee
for FIRA, will make available to the respective Participating
Banks, promptly as needed, amounts sufficient to cover such
b".L,4nces. The financing granted by Banxico, acting as trustee for
FIRA, will have the same repayments of principal as the Sub-loans
financed, and if such financing is granted through rediscounting,
such rediscounting will be evidenced by negotiable instruments
representing the Sub-loan to be rediscounted signed by the
Beneficiaries.
3.   In rediscounting or otherwise financing Sub-loans, the fol-
lowing rules will be applied:


﻿- 11 -
Minimum
beneficiary
contribution           Maximum
(percentage           percentage
of cost             of Sub-loan
Beneficiary               of project         rediscounted or
category                 financed)         otherwise financed
(1) Category 1              10%                 90%
(2) Category 2              15%                 85%
(3) Category 3              20%                 80%
4.   No Sub-loan will be made to an individual Beneficiary for
on-farm investment if the amount of the proposed Sub-loan toge-
ther with the aggregate principal amount outstanding of Sub-loans
made for on-farm investment to such Beneficiary and financed by
FIRA exceeds 30,000,000 pesos or such other amount as shall be
agreed between the Bank and Banxico. In case the Beneficiary is a
group of persons, such amount will be multiplied by the number of
members of such group.
5.   The lending terms and grace periods will be as set forth in
the technical and financial plans. Repayments of principal of
Sub-loans will range from 2 to 15 years and will include grace
periods of 1 to 3 years; provided that, in exceptional cases and
with the prior agreement of the Bank, repayment of principal may
extend for up to 20 years.
6.   Interest rates on Sub-loans will be established and perio-
dically readjusted in accordance with the provisions of the
General Interest Rate Agreement. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, in rediscounting or otherwise financing Sub-loans made by
Participating Banks, Banxico will allow the followitig percentage
points as margins to such Participating Banks: (i) 6.5% with res-
pect to Sub-loans to Category 1 Beneficiaries; (ii) 6% with res-
pect to Sub-loans to Category 2 Beneficiaries; and (iii) 2% with
respect to Sub-loans made to Category 3 Beneficiaries.
II. Short-term Sub-loans
1.   The appraisal and approval of Sub-projects to be financed
out of the proceeds of a Short-term Sub-loan and their super-
vision will be made in accordance with FIRA Lending Policies and
Operating Manual.


﻿- 12 -
2.   In rediscounting or otherwise financing Short-term Sub-
loans, the interest rate to be charged to the Beneficiaries shall
be as provided for in the General Interest Rate Agreement and the
repayment terms shall be less than two years.
3.   Short-term Sub-loans to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan will be incremental, such increment defined as addi-
tional over FIRA's total short-term lending of the previous
year. By November 30 of each year, starting on November 30, 1984,
FIRA will provide the Bank with an estimate of its incremental
short-term lending for the subsequent year, which would consti-
tute the estimated amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan or Short-term Sub-loans during the year in question.
Such amount will be revised against FIRA's actual incremental
short-term lendind during each such year and any difference re-
sulting therefrom will be added to or substracted from, as the
case may be, the estimated amount to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan as short-term Sub-loans during the immediate
following year.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day ofJh l Akg   98
FOR SECRETARY


