Document of
The World Bank                        FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1806a-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
HONDURAS
February 14, 1978
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Lempira (i)
g 1.0                          US$ 0.50
Z 2.0                          US$ 1.00
Measures
1 r.2                          1.09 yd.2
1 m.                          10.80 ft.
1 Km.2                         0.62 mi.2
1 Km.                          0.39 mi.
1 ha.                          2.47 acres
Acronyms
BNF             National Development Bank
CAHBANA         Honduras Banana Corporation
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
COHDEFOR        Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development
CONSUPLANE      Higher Economic Planning Council
EDUCREDIT       Student Aid
ENA             National School of Agriculture
ENF             National School of Forestry Sciences
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IHCAFE          Honduran Coffee Institute
IICA            Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences
INA             National Agrarian Institute
INFOP           National Institute for Vocational Training
MNR             Ministry of Natural Resources
SCD             School Construction Department
USAID           U.S. Agency fQr International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   DEVELOPMENT PROSPECTS AND HUMAN RESOURCES IMPLICATIONS ..         1
Development Prospects ............ . . .  ....................... .  1
Human Resources Implications          2......................   2
II.   EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM ...........................         4
General                       .....4
Primary Education ...................      .    ..... ..        5
Secondary Education ...       ..     ......... .......          7
Formal Technical and Vocational Education.                      7
Formal Agricultural and Forestry Education ............         8
Higher Education ....................                           8
Nonformal Basic Education and Training.                         8
Education Finance  ........10
Government Development Priorities .....................        11
III. THE PROJECT    ....12
Obj etives and Composition.                                    12
Elements of the Rural Primary Education Component .13
Elements of the Agricultural Education Component               16
IV. COST OF THE PROJECT .19
Cost Estimates ..............                    .      .      19
Contingency Allowances .................      . . .21
Foreign Exchange Component            .     .     .22
Financing Plan ...                        .............        22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Honduras during July/August 1977. The mission comprised Messrs. A. Freire
(senior educator), L. Secco (architect) and T. Ramos Saco (agricultural
educator, consultant) and Ms. L. Jallade (economist, consultant).
This document has arestricted distribution and may be used byrecipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS .......................    23
Project  Administration  . ............................. .  23
Implementation Schedule ......  ........................  24
Sites ...... ..........................................  24
Civil Works Procurement     ..............................  24
Furniture and Equipment Procurement ................. .  25
Maintenance       ........................ ...............  25
Disbursements ..................................... .... .... ...  25
Completion Report .......    .............................  26
VI.  BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. AND EVALUATION ......    26
Benefits   ................. ............................  26
Risks and Uncertainties .................. ............  27
Monitoring and Evaluation .. ...... .... .. .... ...........  27
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............. ...    27
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 Supporting Tables and Charts
T 1.    Comparative Education Indicators
T 2.    Requirements for Professional and Technical Manpower
T 3.    Educational Profile of the Labor Force
T 4.    Professional and Technical Vacancies at the Ministry
of Natural Resources
T 5.    Projected Output of Secondary and Post Secondary Schools
in Agriculture and Forestry
T 6.    Projected Requirements for Middle and Higher Level
Technicans in Agriculture, Animal Sciences and Forestry
T 7.    Stock of Trained Agricultural Manpower in Employment
T 8.    Enrollments in Primary Education by Area and Grade
T 9.    Cohort Analysis:  Urban Primary Schools
T10.    Cohort Analysis:  Rural Primary Schools
Tll.    Primary School Textbook Production
T12.    Secondary Enrollments by Level, Field of Specialization
and Grade
T13.    Actual and Projected Expenditures in Education
T14.    Public Fixed Investment in Education
T15.    Recurrent Expenditures in Formal Public Education by Level
T16.    Recurrent Expenditures Per Student in Public Education
T17.    Rural Primary Project Schools
T18.    Upgrading Courses for School Supervisors, Directors and
Teachers
T19.    Curriculum for Primary Schools



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
T20.     Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule
T21.     Summary of Estimated Project Costs
T22.     Contingency Allowances
T23.     Financing Breakdown by Category of Expenditure
T24.     Project Implementation Schedule
T25.     Disbursement Schedule
C 1.     Structure of the Formal and Nonformal System of Education
and Training 1977
C 2.     Organization of the Ministry of Education 1977
C 3.     Enrollments in Public and Private Institutes 1975
ANNEX 2  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP






HONDURAS.
if
Basic Data
Population (1975)                         2.9 million
Urban                                0.9 million           31%
Rural                                2.0 million           69%
Average Annual Growth Rate t1971-74)    2.7%
Urban                                5.2%
Rural                                1.8%
% Under 15 Years of Age                   48%
Labor Force (1974)                   In Thousands               %
Total                                76J3                  100
AgricTulture                        461                    60
Industry                            113                   15
Services                            189                    25
% of Population                                            29
GNP (in 1976 market prices)                                     US$ 1,162 million
Per Capita GNP                                             US$ 390
Annual Growth Rate (1969-76)                               3.2%
Central Government Expenditures                            21%
(as % of GNP)
Literacy Rate (1975)                                            53%
Urban                                                      74%
Rural                                                      44%
Enrollment Ratios (1975)
Primary   ( 7-12)                            90% (gross); 78% (net)
Secondary (13-18)                                          16% (gross)
Higher    (19-24)                                           4%
Public Education Expenditures (1976)
As % of GNP                                                4.2%
As % of Central Government Expenditures                    18.8%
Per Capita Expenditures                                    US$ 16
See also Table T-2






I. DEVELOPMENT PROSPECTS AND HUMAN RESOURCES IMPLICATIONS
Development Prospects
1.01      In the 150 years since independence from Spain, Honduras has made
slow economic progress, with per capita income reaching only US$390 by 1976,
among the lowest in the Western Hemisphere. Two-thirds of the population of
about three million live in rural areas, 18% in the cities of Tegucigalpa and
San Pedro Sula, and the rest in secondary cities. The rate of population
growth is high (estimated at about 2.7%). Malnutrition is widespread and most
people have no access to piped water or sanitary waste disposal. Disparities
in income distribution are wide: a 1967-68 Survey of Incomes and Expenditures
showed that the poorest 40% of the population, almost all of whom resided in
rural areas, had an average income per capita equivalent to only one-fifth of
the already low national average (e.g. about one-tenth of the urban average).
1.02      Honduras' slow economic growth has largely reflected trends in
agricultural output and exports. The country's major natural resources are
land and forests, and agriculture (including forestry) accounts for nearly
two-thirds of employment, a third of GDP and about 80% of total exports.
Nevertheless, the full potential of the agricultural sector is not yet being
realized. Besides good agricultural soils in the northern and southern
coastal plains and inland river valleys, some 18% of the land area is covered
by exploitable pine forests. However, the predominance of steep rugged
terrain and isolated valleys makes potentially cultivable land difficult to
exploit and road construction costly. With respect to yields, productivity
is relatively low as a result of traditional farm practices, inefficient land
use and tenure patterns, and the heavy toll of pests and animal disease.
Except for the production of sawn wood, the forestry industry is still rela-
tively underdeveloped, and wasteful exploitation practices could lead to
significant resource depletion. Finally, recurring natural disasters and
adverse weather conditions, coupled with heavy dependence on the export of
only a few basic commoditie's (bananas, coffee, lumber and beef), have also
resulted in periods of depressed agricultural output. With regard to other
sectors, mining accounts for 3% of GDP, manufacturing 17%, construction 6%,
and services 45%.
1.03      Current development strategy emphasizes export diversification
through forestry development and tourism, and improved rural productivity and
income distribution through agrarian reform. Supported partly by improvements
in the structure and administration of the tax system, public fixed investment
increased significantly to about 7.5% of GDP in 1976, as compared with 3.8% in
1972. Investment in the productive sectors also increased from 1% to 10% (as
a share of total public investment) during the same period, and there was an
important trend to strengthen or create new public agricultural institutions.
As a result of increased banana exports, high coffee prices and rapid expansion
of both public and private investment and consumption, the GDP growth rate
reached a relative high of 6% in 1976.



-2-
1.04      Given good export prospects and the nature of the government's
development program, overall economic-growth in the next five years should be
even more rapid than in the recent past. The level of public fixed investment
is expected to increase to about 10% of GDP by 1981, with a further increase
in the share of the productive sectors through the Olancho forestry develop-
ment scheme, a tourism project, and several small rural development projects
in the initial years followed by some large integrated rural development and
irrigation projects at the end of the period. A major hydroelectric project
and expansion of social infrastructure account for the rest of the planned
public investment program.
Human Resources Implications
1.05      In 1974 Honduras had a labor force of about 763,000, of which 60%
was in the agricultural sector. In the medium term, the overall labor force
is expected to grow at a high rate of more than 3% per year, with the agri-
cultural sector growing at a slower rate of slightly more than 2% annually.
Given that total and agricultural GDP are projected to grow at rates of more
than 5% and 4% annually over the next 10 years, a significant increase in
output per worker is expected (Table T-2). The average educational level of
the labor force is low: in 1974, 41% had no formal education and 27% had
fewer than three years' primary education; the respective proportions were 52%
and 27% among agricultural workers (Table T-3). Some 47% of the population is
illiterate, with the highest rates being observed in rural areas. Professional
and technical occupations account for only 4% of the total labor force. With
overall enrollments in upper secondary and university education growing at a
fast pace and semiskilled training needs in the non-agricultural sectors being
taken care of by the recent creation of the National Institute for Vocational
Training (INFOP), the main priorities for future human resources development
are to raise the basic education and training level of the rural population
and to increase the supply of highly qualified agricultural personnel.
1.06      Basic Education and Training of the Rural Population.  Traditional
production practices and land use patterns are among the main factors account-
ing for low agricultural productivity. A 1975 survey concluded that as
many as 84% of the farmers in the sample required some type of agricultural
training to improve production techniques, diversify output and stimulate
participation in cooperative organizations. Families covered by the agrarian
reform program have some access to training, extension and credit services; in
the last five years the number of such families has been increasing by about
11,000 annually. Both within and outside the reform sector, several public
and private agencies are involved in farmer training programs with some
financial support from international agencies. It is estimated that in 1975
about 13,000 farmers attended such courses, and more than twice that number
are expected for 1977. The effectiveness of this manpower training effort is,
however, constrained by the very low level of education of the participants.
Acknowledging this problem, both the 1974-78 Education Plan and the new plan
now under preparation give first priority to rural primary education linked to
rural development needs. Targets for 1985 call for providing accelerated



-3-
primary education to all overage students, raising the enrollment ratio of
the seven year age group to 95%, and-increasing the proportion of students
completing the fourth and sixth grades to 85% and 65%, respectively.
1.07      Technical Manpower in Agriculture and Forestry.  As a result of
government emphasis on agricultural development, the demand for professionals
and technicians in that sector has increased markedly and shortages are now
acute (Table T-4). It is estimated that by 1990 the stock of agricultural and
forestry professionals and technicians will have to be almost tripled. Planned
output from relevant educational institutions during 1977-1986 represents from
60% to 80% of projected requirements, depending on the field, but only 40% to
55% when graduates likely to undertake further studies or other activities are
excluded (Table T-5). Many Honduran students receive graduate and post graduate
training at foreign universities, and government loan and fellowship programs
for studies abroad are being implemented with foreign assistance. Also, the
National University has received IDB support to increase gradually its output
of agricultural professionals.
1.08      At present, therefore, the government is focussing its concern
on the training and recruitment of technician level personnel. The budgets
and staffing of the public agricultural agencies have increased rapidly in
recent years, a trend expected to continue in the future. In order to compete
with the small private sector for scarce manpower, most public agencies offer
significant staff training incentives and the central government has recently
increased its standard salary scale. In cases of extreme shortage, central
government agencies recruit personnel on a special contract basis at above
standard salary levels. Consequently, unfilled vacancies in public agencies
are attributable more to absolute manpower shortages than to failure to attract
personnel due to poor conditions of service.
1.09      The main agricultural technician 1/ occupations include extension
agents, loan/project evaluators, and instructors. Requirements for such
technicians are estimated at 1,600 for the next 10 years (Table T-6). Among
the three educational institutions providing relevant training, the upper
secondary National School of Agriculture (ENA) in Catacamas has played a key
role; its graduates are easily absorbed by the market and they represent
between 50% and 94% of the manpower employed in the abovementioned occupations.
Graduates from the lower secondary J. F. Kennedy Agricultural School are less
easily absorbed, in spite of the lower level of their salaries. Finally, the
post secondary Pan American Agricultural School, a high quality private inter-
national institution at Zamorano, accounts for a relatively small proportion
(17%) of manpower in intermediate level occupations in the public sector,
because only a limited number of Honduran graduates are produced annually and
some 35% of these are attracted to private employment (Table T-7).
1/   Excluding animal science personnel and forestry technicians, who are dealt
with separately in paras. 1.11 and 1.12, below.



- 4 -
1.10      As public agricultural programs develop, the mix of required skill
levels is changing and the importance of specialized and fairly complex jobs
increases. The output of Honduran graduates from the Pan American Agricultural
School, although expected to double in 1977, will be inadequate. Therefore,
the government plans to upgrade the ENA to post secondary status in order to
produce the additional technician level manpower needed by the economy, while
upgrading as well the J. F. Kennedy Agricultural School 1/ to include the upper
secondary level to fill the gap left by the ENA.
1.11      With regard to animal science personnel, there are presently 52
graduate veterinarians in Honduras, all trained in foreign universities, of
whom 80% are employed by the public sector. The ratio of veterinarians per
animal unit - 1:45,000 - is the second lowest in the Western Hemisphere.
As a result of the livestock development and animal health programs under
way, serious shortages are being experienced: in early 1977 there were 22
vacancies for professional veterinarians at the Ministry of National Resources
(MNR). At the technician level, the existing 94 animal science assistant
posts in the public sector have been filled with unqualified personnel trained
on an ad hoc basis. Minimum requirements for professional veterinarians are
estimated at 65 for the period 1977-1987, 60% of whom could be expected to get
training abroad through existing financial support channels or on their own,
and 40% would require a special financial assistance program from the MNR
as their main employer. Requirements for animal science technicians are
estimated at 190 for the same period (Table T-6).
1.12      The Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development (COHDEFOR)
presently employs 165 forestry technicians in production and exploitation
activities, who have been trained at the National School of Forestry Sciences
(ENF). COHDEFOR has thus far absorbed almost all the ENF's output, since
private demand is still limited. Implementation of government development
programs would require that a new type of industrial technician, presently
unavailable in the market, be trained. Projected requirements amount to about
650 additional forestry technicians of the kind now produced and 165 of the
new forestry industry technicians for the next ten years (Table T-6).
II. EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
General
2.01      The formal education system in Honduras (Chart C-1) consists of
one to three years of preprimary education, six years of primary, six years of
secondary (including a common lower cycle and a diversified upper cycle), and
three to six years of higher education. The Ministry of Education (MOE)
administers most of the formal system up to university level. It includes
operating departments for each level of education, as well as for adult
education, arts and culture, school construction, and education planning
(Chart C-2); decision making is heavily centralized and personnel tend to
be poorly trained for administrative functions. The MNR is responsible for
middle level agricultural technician training, while higher level agricultural
1/   Recently, November 28, 1977, upgraded to upper secondary level.



-5-
and forestry technicians are trained at the private Pan American Agricultural
School and the ENF, respectively. INFOP provides apprentice and accelerated
training for skilled and semiskilled workers in industrial, agricultural and
service occupations. In addition, several government and private agencies
carry out relatively small nonformal training programs.
Primary Education
2.02      Primary education enrollments totalled 460,000 in 1975 (Table T-8),
equivalent to 90% of the population aged 7 through 12 if overage students are
included in the total, or to about 78% if they are excluded (Chart C-3).
While a large number of children attend primary schools, only 30% of first
grade entrants complete the full six year cycle and there are extreme dis-
parities in access and efficiency between urban and rural areas. 1/ Urban
enrollments are equivalent to 120% of the 7 to 12 age group 2/, compared with
60% in rural areas; while 54% of children complete six years of urban prima-y
schooling, only 16% do so in rural areas. The serious inefficiency of the
system is demonstrated by the fact that it takes 9.3 student years to produce
one sixth grade graduate from urban schools and 19.5 from rural schools
(Tables T-9 and T-10). The major reasons include: (a) the large number of
schools offering fewer than six grades, as well as the long distances children
need to walk; (b) the lack of appropriately prepared teachers and school
directors for rural areas (about 24% of all rural teachers have no professional
qualifications, and even the qualified teachers have not been trained specifi-
cally for work in rural areas); (c) lack of teaching materials; and (d) the
fact that the school curriculum is oriented more toward preparation for
further studies than for rural life, although most rural children will never
reach secondary school. The government has determined that the improvement of
rural primary education is its main priority in the area of human resources
development. In this context, the principal planned or initiated programs are
described below.
2.03      School Nuclearization.  Since 1973 the government has been experiment-
ing with nuclearization 3/ of rural primary schools, as an approach to organizing
and supervising rural education, so as to provide maximum access to children
1/   However, data indicate that there is no sex discrimination in the primary
schools, nor in the upper levels of education in Honduras. Enrollment in
primary education is approximately equal to sex ratios (female 49%, male
51%). The majority of primary teaching staff is female, and women hold
numerous high positions in public administration, including the present
Minister of Education and Technical Director of the Higher Economic
Planning Council (CONSUPLANE).
2/   This figure is higher than 100% because of enrollment of overage children
and of children from rural areas.
3/   A school location and administration system of linking primary schools
at the local level.



-6-
and to integrate the schools into the community. Seventy-two "pilot" nuclei
are now functioning throughout Honduras, but these have met with mixed success
because careful study of each local situation was not made, appropriate train-
ing was not provided to teachers and directors, and administrative procedures
were not clearly defined. The government is presently developing policies to
correct these deficiencies and plans to revise the legislation now governing
the organization and administration of the school nuclearization system, as a
basis for enlarging its experimental program with IDA assistance under the
proposed second education project. In this new scheme each nucleus would
serve 1,000 to 1,400 students, taught by 15 to 20 teachers on a double shift
basis. A "central" six grade school would be linked to a number of neighboring
schools which may have six ("subcentral" school) or four grades ("associated"
schools). The central school would have, in addition to classrooms, a small
workshop and a covered multipurpose space for providing accelerated primary
education (three years of schooling equivalent to the six years of the formal
system) to youths and adults, as well as literacy courses, some farmer train-
ing, short courses in community development and in home economics. Walking
distances to schools for children would be no greater than three kilometers.
The director of the central school would have no teaching responsibilities but
would supervise teaching activities and serve as liaison between the community
and. the nonformal training agencies which would utilize school facilities.
Besides ensuring maximum utilization of physical space, the double shift
system would offer financial incentives to rural teachers, who would receive
about 160% of normal salary for teaching two groups. Central school teachers
would be trained in health, agriculture, or practical subjects and would
supervise other teachers and assist in organizing community activities. The
new nuclearization system would be implemented in the western, southern and
southeastern regions of the country, where development activities are already
in progress and/or the need to expand and improve education opportunities is
most acute. A school mapping survey was conducted to determine where the new
facilities should be located. In future, a nationwide school mapping program
would be undertaken with a view to expanding the nuclearization system through-
out Honduras.
2.04      Primary Teacher Training.  The total number of primary school
teachers in 1975 was 13,000, of whom about 81% were qualified (i.e., had
completed secondary level teacher training and held teaching certificates).
Nearly all of the unqualified teachers were located in rural areas where
they constituted 35% of the total teaching force. Since 1974 the government
has taken positive steps to improve and rationalize teacher training, by
concentrating 47 pre-service programs into four teacher training schools which
were financed under the First Education Project (Loan 954-HO/Credit 452-HO).
This has served both to improve quality and to eliminate the former overproduc-
tion of primary teachers.  In future the government also plans to improve and
expand in-service teacher training by constructing a new training center in
Valle de los Angeles and by establishing in-service courses at existing
teacher training schools during vacation periods.
2.05      Curriculum and Materials.  Although the primary school curriculum
was revised and improved in 1971, the syllabi continue to be urban oriented
and not very relevant to rural life. In the absence of library books,



-7-
equipment or other supporting materials, teachers rely on traditional teaching
techniques and do not often implement practical work. The government regularly
printsktextbooks (Table T-11), which are provided free of charge at the primary
level, but the distribution system is poor.
Secondary Education
2.06      Inequalities of opportunity between urban and rural areas prevail at
the secondary education level. Enrollments have been increasing at about 10%
annually since 1970, and by 1975 reached 16% of the 13-18 year age group
(Table T-12). About four-fifths of total enrollments were concentrated in
Tegucigalpa, with the rest in other urban areas. Public school enrollments
accounted for only 25% of the total, with semi-public schools 50%. Although
the government supports one to two-thirds of the costs at the semi-public
schools, students must pay the equivalent of from US$10 to US$20 per month,
and the number of scholarships provided to needy children is small. There is
still a wide margin for improvement in productivity of secondary education:
only about 60% of entrants complete the lower secondary cycle (grades 7-9);
91% of these enter the upper cycle (grades 10-12); and 80% of entrants
complete the cycle.
2.07      The lower secondary curriculum is common to all except a few voca-
tional schools. The upper secondary curriculum is diversified, including
specializations in general education (28% of total enrollments), primary
teacher training (11%), secretarial studies and commerce (57%), and agricul-
ture/industry (4%). Although both lower and upper secondary school curricula
are satisfactory, the quality of education is still low due mainly to a
shortage of trained teachers. About 25% of the teachers have the necessary
training for their profession; the majority (53%) are qualified only for
teaching at the primary level; others (17%) are only secondary school graduates;
and the rest (5%) are university students or professionals without pedagogic
training. This problem will be solved gradually as the secondary teacher
training college, recently improved under the First Education Project, enters
full operation in 1978. The college has a capacity of 1,600 students, is well
equipped and effectively managed. Besides the pre-service course, it provides
in-service training for teachers during vacation periods and regular courses
for school directors, supervisors and vocational guidance counselors.
Formal Technical and Vocational Education
2.08      Courses for training semiskilled workers are offered in two MOE
lower secondary institutions which enroll a total of 580 primary school
graduates. Efficiency is low: in 1975 only 60 students graduated after three
to four years of training. At the upper secondary level, a public institution
provides a three-year course leading to a technical secondary degree. Wastage
has been extremely high (20 graduates in 1975 out of an enrollment of 172),
and industrialists claim that the training is not related to occupational
needs and that a graduate must be given further, intensive on-the-job instruc-
tion. In 1974 the MOE obtained IDB financial and technical assistance to



-8-
improve formal technical education, through a project which is expected to
be completed in 1979. In addition, the Federal Republic of Germany has
provided substantial assistance (specialist services and equipment) for the
operation of a technical center in San Pedro Sula, which offers a three year
upper secondary level course to prepare industrial technicians. The effi-
ciency of this center has been satisfactory; about 80% of the entrants
graduate.
Formal Agricultural and Forestry Education
2.09      The education system is not supplying sufficient qualified manpower
for the agricultural sector. At present agricultural and forestry education
is provided by: (a) one post primary private agricultural school; (b) one
public upper secondary agricultural school under the MNR; one private post
secondary agricultural school; and (c) one post secondary forestry school
operated by COHDEFOR. The quality of training and relevance of curricula
have been unsatisfactory in all the public agricultural schools, although
two projects under way should help improve the situation. Functional
physical facilities, adequate equipment, updated curriculum, and qualified
staff for the MOE's upper secondary J. F. Kennedy agricultural school are
being provided under an IDB financed project. The public upper secondary
school (ENA) is being improved under the Bank Group financed First Education
Project, and will be upgraded to the post secondary level under the proposed
project in light of the projected needs for trained agricultural manpower to
implement the government's agricultural development programs. The proposed
project would improve the training offered by the ENF and help establish a
new forestry industry technician course.
Higher Education
2.10      Higher education includes the autonomous National University and
several post secondary programs in agriculture, forestry and secondary teacher
training. Enrollment in the University in 1975 was 10,635 (equivalent to 4%
of the 18-24 year age group), distributed among three major areas of study as
follows: health, 22%; social sciences, 54%; and engineering, 25%. Almost
two-thirds are graduates of private secondary schools, and the government
subsidizes 90% of the annual cost per student. University authorities,
the government and students are presently studying a proposed reform to
improve efficiency (in 1975 graduates represented only 7% of first year
enrollments in 1970), establish a merit-based recruitment system for both
professors and students, and design programs more relevant to national devel-
opment priorities.
Nonformal Basic Education and Training
2.11      Basic Education.  Nonformal basic education for out-of-school youths
and adults is provided under two types of programs: accelerated primary
education and literacy training. The first comprises four years of study I/
1/   To be reduced to three years under the proposed project (para. 3.06).



- 9 -
and is provided through evening courses or organized radio listening groups.
In 1975 enrollments in this program totalled 33,342, of which 45% was offered
in public schools and 55% in private centers, nearly all in urban areas. The
number of persons completing accelerated primary education in the same year
was a low 2,500. Literacy courses are also provided to about 10,000 adults
annually, mainly in urban areas.
2.12      The government intends to reorient adult basic education under
the auspices of a new agency administered by CONSUPLANE. Programs for the
rural population will be designed on the basis of systematic evaluation,
while the specific training will be provided by other agencies. In 1977
experimental programs have been initiated in the Aguan Valley under contract
with the National Agrarian Institute (INA) and in Ocotepeque; results cannot
yet be evaluated. The MOE's Department of Adult Education will be responsible
for ensuring close collaboration between these programs and the formal educa-
tion system in those areas of the country where the new primary school
nuclearization scheme is to be implemented.
2.13      Farmer Training.  The INA, MNR and INFOP are all rapidly expanding
their farmer training programs. INA was providing "animation" training to
over 23,000 families in its agrarian reform zones by early 1976. INFOP,
through mobile agricultural training units, provided short term training to
3,350 farmers in improved production techniques in 1976. The MNR also offers
training in production methods, linked to its extension services, and it will
soon open three new farmer training centers, which were financed under the
First Education Project, with a capacity of 50 places each for farmers, home-
makers and youths. Evaluation of these new programs, as well as better
definition of the respective roles of INFOP, INA and the MNR, is needed before
any substantial expansion is attempted.
2.14      Health Training.  The government is constructing 300 additional
rural health centers, to make a total of 500 throughout the country. USAID is
financing the training of paramedical workers and supplies for family planning.
The government is also preparing an agreement with the National University to
train nurses in rural health administration.
2.15      Vocational Training.  Since 1973, vocational training has been
developed by INFOP, with financing from a payroll levy. Under the First
Education Project, two vocational training centers were built and equipped in
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, and technical assistance was provided to help
establish an in-plant training unit, organize an instructor training program
and develop selection procedures. INFOP's output has increased from 333 in
1973 to 7,075 in 1976. With 90% of the courses oriented to upgrading existing
workers, the focus has been on increasing productivity. Further expansion of
in-plant and apprentice training is envisaged for the coming years, and
greater emphasis is to be placed on improving teaching methodology, refining
costing and measuring external efficiency.



- 10 -
Education Finance
2.16      Expenditures on education in 1976 reached a high 5.3% of GDP
(4.2% for public education expenditures and 1.1% for the private sector).
However, education's share of total public sector expenditures decreased
from 18% in 1972 to 15.1% in 1976 (Table T-13). Education expenditures by
the central government are by far the most important, accounting for 89% of
total public education expenditures in 1976 (or 77%, if transfers to the
National University are excluded).
2.17      Capital Expenditures.  Capital expenditures for education have
increased significantly over the last decade to about 7% of total public
investment in 1976. A major inflow of external assistance in recent years has
provided support to seven large government projects covering all of the main
areas of education: primary, secondary, agricultural, industrial, university,
primary and secondary teacher training, vocational training and student aid
programs for higher education (paras 2.21-2.22). The total cost of these
projects is US$40.7 million, with external financing of US$28.6 million. Some
primary school construction is executed through a "self-help" system with
community participation, and this has achieved significant economies in unit
construction costs. Most of these major projects should be completed by late
1978, after which public investment for education would decline. However,
investment would remain high in the sub-sectors of rural primary and technical
education and training, with the proposed second education project equivalent
to about 30% of total investment in education during 1978-1981 (Table T-14).
2.18      Recurrent Expenditures.  Despite the fact that expenditures for
education reached a relative high of 23% of total central government recurrent
expenditures in 1976, the absolute amount spent fell short of the goals set by
the 1974-78 Education Plan. In particular, the government has assumed full
financial responsibility for only four of the 16 secondary schools financed by
USAID (the remaining 12 retain semi-public status). Budgetary allocations for
teaching supplies, maintenance and other nonpersonnel expenditures remain at a
low level, particularly in primary and secondary education. The level of
primary teachers' salaries is a low US$100 per month (initial salary), and
does not provide sufficient incentives for attracting qualified teachers to
rural areas. One of the striking features of educational finance in Honduras
is the distribution by level of education (Table T-15): in 1976 primary and
university education accounted for 62% and 19%, respectively, of total public
recurrent expenditures for formal education, while secondary education
accounted for only 15% (including subsidies to private schools). This unusual
distribution results from the fact that only a low 25% of secondary enroll-
ments are in public schools (para. 2.06). Expenditures for adult education
and literacy training are also low in relation to their importance for current
development programs.
2.19      Education's share of total public recurrent expenditures is not
expected to increase beyond its present level in the next few years, although
resources would increase in absolute terms, reflecting GDP growth and a likely



- 11 -
increase of public expenditures as a share of GDP. It is therefore important
for the MOE to look for ways of increasing efficiency in the use of resources.
For example, recurrent costs per primary student are now a reasonable US$47
(Table T-16), but these costs are between 150% (urban) and 300% (rural) above
those which would be possible under a fully efficient system.
Government Development Priorities
2.20      The National Education Development Plan of 1974-78 set out the
ambitious goals of providing more equitable access to the educational system
and linking it more fully with economic development. The strategy to achieve
these aims included expansion and improvement of rural primary education on
the basis of a school nuclearization concept, expanded public sector support
for secondary education, improvement and expansion of technical and higher
education, and expansion of nonformal education. Since the Plan was adopted,
the government has expanded primary, vocational and technical education, has
revised secondary curricula and is improving teacher and farmer training
programs. Quality improvement of both primary and secondary education has
lagged, especially in terms of school administration and supervision, in-
service teacher training, and provision of equipment to secondary schools.
In addition, budgetary constraints have forced cutbacks in the expansion of
public secondary education. As discussed earlier, the main priorities for
future development of the education system are to improve and expand rural
primary education and the training of agricultural technicians. Additional
priorities include the development of a basic nonformal education system for
adults, expanded rural skills training, and expansion and quality improvement
of secondary education, particularly in rural areas. These goals, which are
financially feasible, will be articulated in the forthcoming 1979-84 National
Education Plan.
2.21      Bank Group's Role in Education and Training.  The basic objective
of Bank Group lending to the education sector in Honduras is to support the
government's effort to expand access to and improve the quality of formal and
nonformal education and training relevant to the needs of the economy. The
First Education Project (Loan 954-HO/Credit 452-HO - US$3 million each - of
January 9, 1974) has assisted in developing more effective systems for the
training of primary and secondary teachers, agricultural technicians and
farmers, and skilled and semiskilled industrial workers. Implementation
is proceeding in a satisfactory manner, and the project is expected to be
completed by the original closing date of June 30, 1978. All project schools
are now in operation, except one in Tegucigalpa, which is expected to be
completed by the end of June, 1978. The agricultural training centers are
completed and courses for small farmers and their wives will begin in early
1978. The construction of the extension to the agricultural school at Catacamas
and of INFOP's vocational training centers at San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa
will also be completed by the end of June, 1978. The proposed second education
project would reinforce lending objectives in the sector by assisting the
government in extending and improving primary and agricultural education
opportunities for the rural population.
2.22      Activities of Other Donor Agencies.  IDB assistance has been mainly
for technical and higher education. A loan of US$2.8 million in 1969 pro-
vided for construction at the National University; a second loan of US$7.5



- 12 -
million in 1975 assisted expansion and replacement of two secondary level
industrial and agricultural schools; and in early 1977 a loan of US$3 million
was approved for a student loan fund for local and foreign study at the higher
and technical education levels. USAID has assisted primary, secondary and
nonformal education. A 1967 loan provided US$7 million for the construction
of 16 secondary schools. After Hurricane Fifi in 1972, USAID financed emer-
gency reconstruction of primary classrooms, and in 1976 made a loan of US$2
million for additional reconstruction in the coastal areas, construction of an
in-service teacher training center, and equipment and materials for a curri-
culum materials production center. Jointly with UNESCO, USAID is assisting
with grant funds in the development of an experimental nonformal education
program. UNESCO is also providing technical assistance in secondary education
and secondary teacher training. UNICEF has been providing basic materials and
equipment for pilot rural schools, and ILO has been assisting INFOP in voca-
tional training.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
3.01      The proposed second education project is designed to support the
government's rural education and training development strategy by: (a)
improving the quality and efficiency of rural primary education through the
provision of adequate school facilities, in the context of an improved school
nuclearization system and supported by appropriately trained teachers and
administrators and relevant curricula and learning materials; and (b) increas-
ing the supply of agricultural professionals and technicians through expansion
and improvement of two existing training institutions and through financing of
the training abroad of professional veterinarians. Specifically, the proposed
project would comprise:
(a) the construction, furnishing, and/or equipping of the
following educational institutions (see Table T-17 for
further details):
Schools                          Places
Kepiace- Exten- iqutpment           New   Existing, Staff
Institutions    Total  New   ments  sions   Only       Students  Boarding Boarding  Houses
40 Rural Nuclei    558    77    269    45    167       33,720              -        -
Post Secondary    1    -      -      1       -         240      -      240       10
Agricl. School
Post Secondary    1    -      -      1       -         220      60     160       15
Forestry School



- 13 -
(b) in-service training of about 1,000 primary teachers, school
directors and supervisors assigned to the project schools
and upgrading of all teaching staff of the existing primary
teacher training schools;
(c) revision of curricula and/or syllabi for rural primary
education and accelerated programs for overage primary
students;
(d) improvement of the distribution of textbooks and other
learning materials to rural primary schools;
(e) school mapping of the entire country;
(f) professional training abroad of 20 veterinarians; and
(g) related technical assistance, comprising five man/years of
specialist services and eight man/years of fellowships for
training abroad.
Elements of the Rural Primary Education Component
3.02      Rural Primary Education Nuclei.  This project element would assist
in establishing 40 rural primary education nuclei (para. 2.03), compris-
ing 558 schools, as follows: 131 four grade "associated" schools, 387 six
grade "subcentral" schools and 40 "central" schools. A total of 853 class-
rooms are included in the project, of which 545 would be constructed, equipped
and furnished (80 in central, 363 in subcentral and 102 in associated schools),
and 308 would be equipped and furnished only. Besides classrooms, each central
school would have facilities for teaching science and practical subjects, a
school library and an administration area. Subcentral and associated schools
would have a workshop and storage area, and all schools would have a covered
open space for community activities. In 1982, when project facilities would
be in full operation, about 35,000 school age students would be enrolled in
primary education (equivalent to 89% of the 7-12 year age group), as well as
about 10,000 overage students (about one-half of whom would attend special
accelerated courses). In addition, some 15,000 out-of-school youths and
adults would receive literacy and nonformal training courses, mainly at the
project central schools. Criteria for selecting the nuclei included a minimum
population of 6,300 inhabitants, relatively low income levels, and inadequate
education and training facilities; the majority of the nuclei would be located
in areas where agrarian reforms and other development activities are already
in progress. School mapping was carried out to determine the number of new
and replacement schools needed, the schools to be expanded, teaching materials
to be supplied, and in-service teacher training requirements.
3.03      Each nucleus would constitute a technical and administrative
unit. The central school would offer six grades of formal primary education
for school age children, two or three years' accelerated primary education for
overage students, and literacy and nonformal training courses for out-of-school
youths and adults. The accelerated primary education and literacy courses



- 14 -
would be offered by specially trained teachers. Nonformal adult training
courses would be designed to improve agricultural productivity and the quality
of life of each community. Trainers would include volunteers selected from
among the most capable local workers and primary school teachers, all of whom
would receive training by INFOP and assistance from agricultural extension
workers. The Ministry of Health and CONSUPLANE's new nonformal education
agency would also collaborate in offering short training courses at the
central schools. Subcentral schools would provide the full six grades of
primary education to communities 10 to 15 km distant from the central school,
while associated schools would provide only the first four grades of primary
education to small communities located within 3 km of a central or subcentral
school where students might attend the fifth and sixth grades. Double shifting
and multigrade teaching techniques would be used extensively, especially in
subcentral and associated schools. The government gave assurances during
negotiations that by April 1, 1979, it would take all necessary action, in-
cluding the issuance of regulations, to organize and administer the primary
school nuclearization system in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(para. 2.03).
3.04      The director of each central school would be responsible for super-
vising all schools in the nucleus (averaging about 14), and would serve
as the liaison between the community and the nonformal training agencies.
Given the pivotal role of the director, the government gave assurances
during negotiations that it would select directors who are graduates of
teacher training schools and specifically trained for this purpose and would
classify their positions as equivalent to assistant supervisors. Project
rural schools would be staffed with qualified teachers who had success-
fully completed in-service training courses on rural basic community education
under a school nuclearization system. The Ministry of Education would assign
a teacher trained in multigrade teaching techniques for each group of about
35 students, regardless of grade, if working one shift and for groups of
about 70 each if working two shifts. To attract and retain competent teachers
for project schools, the government gave assurances during negotiations that
rural teachers would be permitted to work two shifts, with salaries adequate
to compensate them for such increased teaching responsibilities.
3.05      In-Service Training.  This project element would finance a compre-
hensive upgrading program for about 1,000 teachers, nuclei directors, national
supervisors and staff of primary teacher training schools. The program would
be implemented during vacation periods in the four existing teacher training
schools which were recently constructed or remodeled under the First Education
Project. Teaching staff for the upgrading courses, selected from among
personnel of the teacher training schools, would receive special training
during 1978 by international specialists contracted under the First Education
Project. About 40 nuclei directors would receive a two month course on school
organization and administration, modern supervision techniques, rural develop-
ment and statistical data collection. Some 900 rural primary teachers would
attend a course of about eight weeks' duration, aimed at better understanding
the objectives and content of the revised curriculum for rural primary educa-
tion (para. 3.06), including multigrade teaching techniques and the use of
textbooks, equipment and other teaching aids. Optional training courses would



- 15 -
be offered to rural primary school teachers in agricultural and technical
subjects under the auspices of INFOP. Finally, four administrators (princi-
pals or vice principals) of the teacher training schools and three national
primary education supervisors would be given fellowships to study abroad. A
satisfactory implementation schedule for these courses has been prepared by
the government (Table T-18). Given the particular importance of the courses
in multigrade teaching techniques, the government gave assurances during
negotiations that such courses would be established by December 1, 1978.
3.06      Primary Education Curriculum.  The curriculum for formal primary
education, which was revised in 1971 by the Education Reform Commission of
the MOE, comprises language and mathematics (nine periods per week), social
and natural sciences (eight), arts (three), health (three) and practical
activities in agriculture, industrial arts and home economics (seven)
(Table T-19). Although the curriculum is satisfactory, the syllabi need
to be revised to reflect the social, economic and geographic conditions of
rural areas.  The present four year curriculum for accelerated primary educa-
tion would be reduced to three years. The project would provide technical
assistance to the Education Reform Commission in revising curricula and
syllabi for formal primary and accelerated primary education (para. 3.10).
3.07      Educational Materials Distribution.  Textbooks for grades 1 to 6 of
primary schools are printed by the MOE. The project would provide technical
assistance (para. 3.10) and a vehicle for the purpose of improving the dis-
tribution of textbooks to project central schools. The project would also
provide basic elementary science and mathematics equipment, maps, charts, and
tools for agricultural and industrial arts. The directors would be respon-
sible for assuring that schools within each nucleus receive teaching aids on
time and would schedule the rotation of equipment items provided only to the
central school but occasionally needed in the subcentral or associated schools.
3.08      School Mapping.  This project element would finance technical
assistance (para. 3.10), transportation, per diem of field personnel, office
equipment and materials for school mapping and the preparation and printing
of related documents. A central coordinating committee, comprising the
Director General of Education Planning (chairman) and the Directors of Primary,
Secondary and Technical Education, School Construction and Education Reform,
would: (a) review methodology, techniques, forms and questionnaires used in the
school mapping of the regions included in the proposed project; (b) update
national, regional and local targets for expansion of educational opportunities
at all levels; (c) establish an implementation program and supervise its
execution; and (d) liaise with other relevant Ministries and public agencies.
Regional supervisors, school directors, teachers, local authorities, and
community leaders would be directed to collaborate with the school mapping
effort. The government gave assurances during negotiations that
draft terms of reference and a schedule for completing the school mapping
would be made available for the Association to review by January 1, 1979.



- 16 -
3.09      Evaluation.  The programs implemented under the rural primary educa-
tion component of the project should be evaluated continuously with a view to
their future expansion throughout all rural areas. The project includes
technical assistance (para. 3.10) to aid in the establishment of an evaluation
system. The Project Unit educator would be responsible for directing such
evaluation, in coordination with relevant offices of the MOE. The government
gave assurances during negotiations that it would establish, by July 1, 1979,
an acceptable evaluation system for the rural primary education component of
the project.
3.10      Technical Assistance (Table T-20).  The project would finance the
equivalent of 34 man/months of specialist services and 48 man/months of
fellowships in support of the rural primary education component, as follows:
(a) specialist services in: (i) curricula and syllabi development
for formal primary and accelerated primary education (12
man/months); (ii) school mapping (12 man/months); (iii)
improvement of the distribution system for textbooks and
other learning materials (six man/months); (iv) establishment
of a system to evaluate the rural primary education component
of the project (four man/months); and
(b) fellowships for about four primary teacher training school
administrators and three national primary education super-
visors (48 man/months).
During negotiations the government gave assurances that it would appoint
specialists and select fellowship candidates on the basis of criteria and on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and that it would provide
qualified counterparts for the specialists and make appropriate arrangements
for the placement of fellowship recipients.
Elements of the Agricultural Education Component
3.11      National School of Agriculture (ENA), Catacamas.  This project element
would assist the government in upgrading the ENA from an upper secondary to a
post secondary level institution, in order to train higher technicians in agri-
cultural and animal sciences (paras. 1.09-1.10). Since the existing school
is being remodeled and expanded under the First Education Project, only some
minor additional extensions are needed, including construction of two labora-
tories, a milking shed, a workshop for processing farm products, 10 staff
houses and four storage rooms. Capacity would remain at 240 boarding students
in a three year course, about one-third enrolled in animal sciences and
two-thirds in general agriculture, with an estimated annual output of 24 and
48 graduates, respectively. The school would operate on a trimester basis,
and preemployment orientation subjects would be offered during the last term,
with the participation of major employing agencies. The curriculum would
include 33 periods per week, of which 52% would be practical, with students
divided into small groups of 10. Students would be selected on the basis of
academic background and proficiency tests from among graduates of secondary



- 17 -
education. A dropout rate of 20% during the course is estimated. Staff would
number 24, almost all full time; about 75% would have minimum qualifications
of a university degree in their teaching area, with at least two years of
teaching experience and field practice; and the four department heads would
have Master's degrees.
3.12      ENA is being reorganized in preparation for the start of post-
secondary courses in 1978. No new students have been admitted to the upper
secondary program since 1975-76; therefore, the last group of upper secondary
students graduated in December 1977. Specialist services provided under
the First Education Project have been engaged in the reorganization of ENA,
in preparing a new curriculum and in determining the additional facilities
required for the school's operation at post secondary level, although addi-
tional technical assistance and fellowships would be needed to complete this
task (para. 3.19). A more attractive staff salary scale is being established,
and many of the staff are being replaced by personnel with higher qualifica-
tions. It is planned to create an Advisory Board responsible for school
policy, with representatives of the MNR, CONSUPLANE, INA and National Develop-
ment Bank. Establishment of the Advisory Board of ENA, as well as the upgrad-
ing of ENA to post secondary level, would be a condition of disbursement for
this project item.
3.13      Although the proposed upgrading of ENA would fill a critical manpower
gap, there would still be a need to train agricultural personnel at the upper
secondary level. Therefore, the government has recently upgraded the existing
(lower secondary) J. F. Kennedy agricultural school, which is being improved
and expanded under an IDB education project.
3.14      National School of Forestry Sciences (ENF).  This project element
would improve the training offered by the ENF and help establish a new
forestry industry technician course. It would comprise the construction of
new laboratories and a library, the remodeling and expansion of existing
dormitory blocks to increase ENF's capacity from 160 to 220 student places,
and the provision of additional equipment and furniture. About 160 students
would be enrolled in general forestry and 60 in the forestry industry course,
with an annual output of 50 and 16 graduates, respectively. A consultant
would assist the government in improving the student selection system (para.
3.19). ENF would operate on a trimester basis, with eight terms in the
general forestry and nine in the forestry industry course. The first term
would be common to both courses, and the latter would be given in the field;
each course would include about 37 periods per week, with some 56% practical
work; curricula are satisfactory. Students would be selected from among
graduates of secondary education or the equivalent.  About 15% of enrollments
in 1977 are nationals from other Central American countries; this proportion
will likely increase somewhat during the coming years.
3.15      COHDEFOR is providing the funds required for staff improvement in
the general forestry area, and five persons are currently being trained abroad.
After expansion, ENF would require a total of about 30 staff, including 23 for
the general forestry and common subjects, and seven for the forestry industry



- 18 -
course. About 80% of staff members would have a minimum qualification
of one university degree, supplemented by field experience in their teaching
areas, and the remaining instructors would have at least a higher technician
level degree. A minimum of five staff would be at the Master's level upon
completion of the project. In addition, ENF would organize staff improvement
courses in pedagogy with the cooperation of the Inter-American Institute of
Agricultural Sciences (IICA) and the MOE's secondary teacher training college.
3.16      The new course for training forestry industry technicians would
require specialized equipment and substantial technical assistance, both of
which the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has agreed in
principle to finance. Receipt of the signed agreement with CIDA, or satis-
factory evidence of alternative financing for the equipment and technical
assistance, would be a condition of disbursement for this project item.
3.17      TraininR of Professional Veterinarians.  This project element would
finance the professional studies abroad of 20 Honduran students in four year
university level veterinary science programs. The fellowships would include
transportation costs, university fees, installation expenses, books and
equipment, life and health insurance, food and lodging, and miscellaneous
expenses. The program would be administered by EDUCREDIT, a decentralized
public agency with extensive experience in handling fellowships abroad (includ-
ing those sponsored by the government under USAID and IDB financed projects).
A committee to be appointed by the MNR would select candidates from among
students who had sucessfully completed a minimum of one year of general
studies at the National University. The government would provide the Asso-
ciation with a list of acceptable foreign training institutions and the
curricula vitae of the candidates nominated to receive fellowships.
3.18      The Association would finance 75% of the cost of the fellowships,
plus a 15% fee to EDUCREDIT for administrating IDA's share of the program,
including control and followup of the students' academic performance and post
graduate responsibilities. The balance of fellowship costs (25%) would be
covered by EDUCREDIT under its regular program. Both this amount and the 15%
fee would be reimbursable by the student, and these funds would be used to
establish additional veterinary science fellowships. The student would repay
the 75% financed by the Association by means of services to the MNR or an
institution designated by it, for a period equivalent to twice the IDA-financed
time spent studying for the degree (normally six years). Students who fail to
complete the training course or who do not comply fully with the services
requirement would be liable for reimbursement of total expenditures incurred
during training. Students selected would sign a contract with EDUCREDIT and
the MNR, wherein the conditions of the fellowship would be clearly set forth.
A draft contract between the MNR and EDUCREDIT setting forth the financial
conditions and regulations governing EDUCREDIT's administration of this
fellowship program has been prepared. Receipt by the Association of the
signed contract and of satisfactory evidence that the committee for the
selection of fellowship candidates has been established would be conditions
of disbursement for this project item.



- 19 -
3.19      Technical Assistance (Table T-20).  The project would finance the
equivalent of 26 man/months of specialist services and 48 man/months of
fellowships in support of the agricultural education component, as follows:
(a) specialist services in: (i) agricultural education (24 man/-
months) to assist the Ministry of Natural Resources in upgrading
the ENA to a post secondary level institution; and (ii) student
admission systems (two man/months) to assist the ENF in establish-
ing criteria and regulations for the selection of students; and
(b) fellowships for about four teachers of the ENA (48 man/months).
During negotiations the government gave assurances that it would appoint
specialists and select fellowship candidates on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Association, and that it would provide suitable counterparts for
the specialists and make appropriate arrangements for the placement of fellow-
ship recipients.
IV. COST OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$7.6 million.
The breakdown by type of program, shown in more detail in Table T-21, is
summarized as follows:



- 20 -
Lempiras (million)            US$ (million)
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
Rural Primary Education
Rural Primary Schools            5.60    2.62    8.22         2.80    1.31    4.11
School Mapping                   0.10    0.02    0.12         0.05    0.01    0.06
Teacher Training and
Textbooks                      0.12    0.06    0.18         0.06    0.03    0.09
Technical Assistance             0.04    0.28    0.32         0.02    0.14    0.16
Sub-Total             5.86    2.98    8.84         2.93    1.49    4.42
Agricultural Education
National Agricultural School   0.38    0.14    0.52           0.19    0.07    0.26
National School of Forestry    0.34    0.22    0.56           0.17    0.11    0.28
Veterinarian Training            0.08    0.72    0.80         0.04    0.36    0.40
Technical Assistance             0.04    0.22    0.26         0.02    0.11    0.13
Sub-Total             0.84    1.30    2.14         0.42    0.65    1.07
Project Administration           0.34    0.08    0.42         0.17    0.04    0.21
Base Cost
Estimate /2         7.04    4.36   11.40         3.52    2.18    5.70
Physical Contingencies (8.7%)  0.68    0.32    1.00           0.34    0.16    0.50
Sub-total             7.72    4.68   12.40         3.86    2.34    6.20
Price Contingencies (22.5%)    1.88    0.92    2.80          0.94    0.46    1.40
TOTAL PROJECT COST   9.60    5.60   15.20          4.80    2.80    7.60
/1   US$1.00 - Lempiras 2.00.
/2   Base cost estimate expressed in prices as of January 1, 1978.
4.02      The construction costs for rural primary schools are based on
contracts recently awarded by the MOE and on a cost analysis of a comparable
prototype design. The prototype consists of a module of 8m x 8m, including a
gallery of 2m x 8m. Facilities will be one story buildings of a simple design
using economical standards and specifications, with concrete floors and block
walls, and asbestos-cement roofing sheets. Depending on location, sanitary
installations will be water-borne toilets or latrines. The base cost per
module was estimated as of January 1978 at US$2,700 (about US$40/m ), taking



- 21 -
into consideration that local communities would provide an additional contri-
bution, not included in the total project cost, valued at about 20-25% of the
cost per module (for site development and some materials such as sand, gravel
and stones). In cases where the community contribution is deficient, such
costs will be met by the government (para. 5.05). Cost of land is not included
in the project; where sites cannot be donated by the community, the cost will
be borne by the government. Furniture and equipment costs are based on recent
procurement experience in Honduras for comparable schools and average US$18
and US$8 per student place, respectively. The average capital cost per
student place is estimated at about US$146, but it should actually be much
lower since about 50% of the project schools would be used on a double shift
basis.
4.03      The construction 2osts for the extension of the ENA and ENF are
estimated at about US$120/m of gross floor area, excluding site development
costs, and were derived from actual costs of recent construction contracts
for comparable designs under the First Education Project. The proposed
extensions include laboratories, staff houses and agricultural facilities and
they will be one story buildings with brick or concrete block walls, asbestos-
cement roofing, concrete flooring and flexible electrical and mechanical
installations to permit future adaptation to different training purposes.
Site development costs have been estimated at about 12% of construction costs.
The furniture and equipment costs for the extension of ENF have been based on
costs under the First Education Project. Architectural designs and super-
vision for ENA and ENF project items would be contracted with consultant
architects acceptable to the Association. Professional fees have been esti-
mated at 12.5% of construction costs in accordance with local regulations.
4.04      The cost of in-service teacher training courses has been estimated
at an average of US$30 per trainee/week, which includes payments to professors,
per diem of trainees, teaching materials, reference books, and transportation.
The cost of school mapping has been estimated at US$60,000, including staff
transporation and per diem, office equipment and materials for the preparation
and printing of related documents. The cost of improving the textbook
distribution system, estimated at about US$11,000, includes a vehicle and some
office equipment and materials. The cost of technical assistance specialists
has been estimated at US$50,000 per man/year. Training abroad of veterinarians
has been estimated at US$5,000 per man/year (including US$4,500 for fellowships
and US$500 for administrative costs of EDUCREDIT), reflecting the costs of
various Latin American universities where the training courses are likely to
be offered. Fellowships for other studies have been estimated at an average
of US$10,000, because some courses may be selected in universities in the
United States or other countries where the costs would be higher.
Contingency Allowances
4.05      Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost estimate
for: (a) physical contingencies averaging 8.7% of the base cost, estimated
as follows: 10% for civil and site works, professional services, furniture,



- 22 -
equipment, teacher training and project administration; (b) price contin-
gencies averaging 22.5% of the base cost plus physical contingencies, esti-
mated as follows: 12% in 1978/79 and 10% in 1980/81 for civil and site works
and furniture, and 8% in 1978/79 and 7% in 1980/81 for equipment, technical
assistance, professional services, project administration, teacher training
and school mapping. Total contingencies amount to US$1.90 million, represent-
ing about 33% of the base cost estimate. Contingency allowance calculations
by category of expenditure are shown in Table T-22.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.06      The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$2.80 mil-
lion, representing some 37% of the total project cost. This has been calcu-
lated as follows: (a) furniture, 15%; (b) school mapping, project administra-
tion and professional services, 20%; (c) civil and site works and teacher
training, 30%; (d) specialist services, 85%; and (e) equipment and fellowships,
90%.
Financing Plan
4.07      Capital Costs.  The total project cost of US$7.6 million would be
financed by an IDA credit of US$5.0 million and a government contribution of
US$2.6 million. The proposed credit, equivalent to 66% of the total project
cost, would finance the equivalent of the full foreign exchange component of
US$2.80 million and US$2.2 million or 46% of local currency costs. A break-
down of financing by category of expenditure is shown in Table T-23.
4.08      The annual government budgetary allocation and IDA funds required
to finance project implementation have been estimated as follows:
Financing Schedule
(US $'000)
Calendar Year       Government       IDA          Total
1978                300           600            900
1979                960         1,850         2,810
1980                780         1,500          2,280
1981                560         1,050          1,610
TOTAL             2,600         5,000          7,600
The government should give assurances that it would make sufficient and
timely budgetary allocations to meet the annual requirements for counter-
part funds to implement the project.



- 23 -
4.09      A revolving fund amounting to about US$100,000 would be needed to
finance semi-monthly labor payments and procurement of some construction
materials for each school. The government gave assurances that such a
revolving fund would be available to the School Construction Department of
the MOE no later than September 1, 1978, when rural school construction would
begin.
4.10      Recurrent Costs.  The recurrent costs generated by the project
would be well within the capacity of the central government to finance.
The rural education component would generate about US$1.3 million (1977
prices) additional recurrent expenditures per year by 1985, when the schools
would be in full operation, representing an increase of 3% over the MOE's
1977 recurrent budget. As the result of two offsetting trends - improved
efficiency in the utilization of staff and increased resources for supervision,
school supplies and maintenance - recurrent costs per student in the project
area would be slightly reduced.  The agricultural education component would
raise recurrent expenditures by about US$0.5 million annually by 1980, equiva-
lent to 1.7% of the 1977 recurrent budget of the relevant public agencies.
About 45% of the projected increase for the recurrent budget of the ENA is
expected to be met from increased school farm revenues. The absorption of the
projected output of agricultural and forestry technicians from project and
nonproject schools for the 1977-87 period would require an expansion of staff
positions, representing an average annual increase of less than 1% in the
recurrent budget of the four main public employers (expected to absorb about
75% of the projected supply).
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Administration
5.01      The Project Unit established under CONSUPLANE to administer the
First Education Project would be responsible for coordinating implementation
of the proposed second project and for liaison with involved Ministries/agencies
and the Association. This Project Unit presently comprises a director, an
engineer, a procurement specialist and an accountant; it would be strengthened
by the inclusion of an educator acceptable to the Association, whose appoint-
ment will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. The MNR
and CORDEFOR would each appoint a high level officer acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, responsible for the implementation of the project items related to
its Ministry/agency and for liaison with the Project Unit; these appointments
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
5.02      The School Construction Department (SCD) of the MOE would be respon-
sible for the physical implementation of the rural primary education component.
It would, inter-alia, be responsible for: (a) preparing architectural briefs
and designs (on the basis of the already discussed and agreed prototypes);
(b) preparing furniture and equipment lists and bid documents; (c) organizing
support from the communities for rural school construction activities; and (d)
supervising civil works. For these purposes the SCD would be strengthened and



- 24 -
the director would be assisted by the following full-time staff: one manager-
engineer, two supervisor engineers, one administrator, one accountant, two
social promoters and support staff. The government gave assurances that
appointment of the key personnel acceptable to the Association would be made
by September 15, 1978. The salaries of these full-time staff, estimated at
US$277,200 net of contingencies, have been included in the total project cost
under professional services, but would be financed by the government. The
salaries of the Project Unit staff in CONSUPLANE have been estimated at
US$210,000 net of contingencies; these have also been included in the total
project cost under project administration, but would be financed by the
government. Finally, the project cost also includes a sum of US$48,000
for procurement of four vehicles, additional office equipment and furniture
for the SCD and a vehicle for the Project Unit.
Implementation Schedule
5.03      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the project,
an implementation schedule had been prepared and was discussed during nego-
tiations (Table T-24); the government gave assurances that the schedule would
be reviewed and updated on a regular basis and used as a project implementa-
tion and monitoring tool.
Sites
5.04      The MOE already owns the majority of sites needed for project rural
primary schools. Criteria for location, size and conditions of these sites
were discussed during appraisal; the government gave assurances that sites for
project primary schools would be selected in accordance with criteria accept-
able to the Association and acquired prior to the start of construction.
Existing sites at ENA and ENF are suitable for the construction of the exten-
sion included in the project.
Civil Works Procurement
5.05      Rural Primary Schools.  Foreign contractors are unlikely to be
interested in bidding for civil works under this project component because
of the scattered and remote locations of the schools and their small con-
tract size. The contract size may vary from about US$3,000 for construction
of a one classroom school to about US$80,000 for a complete nucleus. The SCD,
which has considerable experience in rural school construction, would carry
out the civil works program as follows: (a) construction would be executed
on a labor contract basis with essential building materials supplied by the
government and by contribution of local communities (e.g., sand, gravel and
stone); (b) whenever possible lump-sum contracts would be signed with the
selected contractors; (c) SCD would maintain separate accounts for each school
or educational nucleus and would make semi-monthly payments to contractors in
accordance with the quantity of work completed; and (d) the bulk of the building
materials would be procured in accordance with local procedures acceptable to
the Association and would be delivered to each school in accordance with the
implementation schedule. For the purposes of ensuring quality control of



- 25 -
construction, about 40 labor contractors would be selected and trained by
staff of SCD and INFOP in a one to two week course on the construction
procedures and methods established for modular rural primary schools. An
amount equivalent to 10% of the building materials' cost has been included
in the project to finance transportation. IDA disbursements for the construc-
tion of rural schools would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures,
with the understanding that the SCD would maintain all the related documenta-
tion for IDA supervision missions to review. Annual audit reports on accounts
related to the expenditures made in executing project items under the MOE
would be done by the Audit Unit of the Ministry of Education; the government
gave assurances that these audit reports would be available for the Association
to review not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year.
5.06      National Schools of Agriculture and Forestry.  Construction contracts
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association. Foreign
contractors are not expected to participate in bidding for the construction of
extensions to the ENA and ENF, at costs of about US$250,000 and US$200,000
respectively, although they would not be precluded from doing so.  The list of
prequalified construction firms approved for the First Education Project would
be reviewed and an updated list of prospective bidders prepared. Construction
supervision would be carried out by the architectural firm responsible for
designs.
Furniture and Equipment Procurement
5.07      Contracts for furniture and equipment for the project institutions
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with IDA guidelines. Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
into packages for bulk procurement of at least US$50,000, not exceeding in
the aggregate US$190,000 (equivalent to about 15% of the estimated total
cost of furniture and equipment), would be procured in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Association. A preferential margin for domestic
manufacturers would be limited to 15% of c.i.f. base costs of imports or 50%
of the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
Maintenance
5.08      The government gave assurances during negotiations that it would
adequately maintain the buildings, equipment and furniture of the institutions
included in the project; and would make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof in accordance with sound administration and technical standards.
For this purpose, adequate allocations would be included in the budgets
of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Natural Resources, and the
National School of Forestry Sciences.
Disbursements
5.09      Disbursement of IDA funds would be made over a period of four years,
with construction and procurement and installation of furniture and equipment
completed by about mid-1981 (Table T-25). Disbursements would finance:



- 26 -
(a) 64% of total expenditures for site works and professional services for
extensions to the ENA and ENF and 64% of total expenditures for all project
civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and
furniture or 85% of expenditures for locally procured equipment and furniture;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance; (d) 75% of total
expenditures for veterinarian fellowships and 100% of total expenditures by
EDUCREDIT for administration of the fellowships; and (e) 100% of total expendi-
tures for school mapping, teacher training and improvement of textbook distri-
bution (Table T-23). Disbursements in respect of items (b), (c), and
(d) would be made against normal documentation.  Financing of items (a) and
(e) would be on the basis of statements of expenditures, with the pertinent
documentation kept in the Borrower's files and subject to review by the
Association.  However, disbursement applications for financing the civil works
of rural primary schools would be supported by certificates signed by the
Project Unit stating that construction had been satisfactorily completed and
the school(s) was (were) ready for operation. Retroactive financing not
exceeding US$30,000 would cover expenditures incurred after July 1, 1977 in
respect of professional services for designing the extension of the ENF and
for construction of ENF's dormitories.
Completion geport
5.10      The government gave assurances that the Project Unit director would
be responsible, in consultation with the Ministries of Education and Natural
Resources and COHDEFOR, for preparing and furnishing to the Association within
six months after the closing date of the credit, a completion report on the
execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and benefits, the
performance by the government and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under the Credit Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the credit.
VI. BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, AND EVALUATION
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would assist the Government of Honduras to
correct the imbalances in basic education and training opportunities between
rural and urban areas and to train critical middle and higher level agri-
cultural manpower necessary for implementation of its rural development
programs. About 35,000 primary school age children and 25,000 out-of-school
youths and adults would benefit annually from the provision of basic educa-
tion and training services in the project institutions. Through the intro-
duction of an improved system of school organization and administration (the
revised school nuclearization system), the training of about 1,000 rural
primary teachers, school directors and supervisors, and the provision to rural
primary students of textbooks and other learning materials, significant
improvements in quality and efficiency are expected. The project would thus
help reduce the considerable wastage in annual operating expenditures for
rural primary education caused by low student completion rates.



- 27 -
Risks and Uncertainties
6.02      No major risks are foreseen.  The largest component of the project,
the expansion of rural primary education within the framework of an improved
nuclearization system, would benefit from the experience gained by local
educators and policy makers in earlier attempts to implement a similar system
(para. 2.03). There would be a shortage of qualified teachers and administra-
tors if their conditions of service were not improved, but the assurances
described in para. 3.04 above are considered adequate to avoid such a problem.
Some delay in project execution and consequently higher investment costs could
occur if school construction based on community participation methods were not
carefully supervised, but such a risk is considered small given the proposed
staffing of the Ministry of Education's School Construction Department as set
forth in para. 5.02 above and the implementation procedures described in para.
5.05.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.03      The project would be administered by the Project Unit established
for the First Education Project, strengthened by the addition of a full-time
educator, which has the experience and authority necessary to carry out this
task. A comprehensive implementation schedule was designed during appraisal,
was agreed upon during negotiations and would be periodically updated as a
project monitoring tool. Systematic evaluation of the software/educational
aspects of the project would be undertaken by relevant offices of the Ministry
of Education, with support from a technical assistance specialist financed
under the project; the government would also prepare a completion report on
the project within six months of the closing date of the credit account.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations the government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) take all necessary action, including the issuance of regulations,
to organize and administer the primary school nuclearization system
in a manner satisfactory to the Association, no later than April 1,
1979 (Para. 3.03);
(b) select qualified nuclei directors specifically trained for this
purpose and classify their positions as equivalent to assistant
supervisors (para 3.04);
(c) permit rural teachers to work two shifts, with adequate
remuneration (para. 3.04);
(d) establish by December 1, 1978, in-service training courses in
multigrade teaching techniques for rural primary teachers in
the project area (para. 3.05);



- 28 -
(e) prepare by January 1, 1979, draft terms of reference and an
implementation schedule for the school mapping program
(para. 3.08);
(f) establish by July 1, 1979, an acceptable evaluation
system (para. 3.09);
(g) appoint specialists and select fellowship candidates
on the basis of criteria and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, provide suitable
counterparts for the specialists and make appropriate
arrangements for the placement of fellowship recipients
(paras. 3.10 and 3.19);
(h) make sufficient and timely budgetary allocations to
implement the project (para. 4.08);
(i) establish by September 1, 1978, a revolving fund for
construction of rural primary schools (para. 4.09);
(j) appoint key staff to the Ministry of Education's School
Construction Department, by September 15, 1978 (para. 5.02);
(k) regularly update an implementation schedule and use it as
a project monitoring tool (para. 5.03);
(1) select suitable sites for project primary schools
(para. 5.04);
(m)  make available to the Association annual audit reports
(para. 5.05);
(n) make adequate budgetary allocations for maintenance and
operation of project schools (para. 5.08); and
(o) make the Project Unit director responsible for preparing
a Project Completion Report (para. 5.10).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
credit:
(a) the appointment to the Project Unit of a full-time
educator acceptable to the Association (para. 5.01);
and
(b) the appointment by the Ministry of Natural Resources and
CODEFOR of liaison officers acceptable to the Association
(para. 5.01).



- 29 -
7.03      The following would be conditions of disbursement for the respec-
tive project items:
(a)  for the National School of Agriculture (ENA), the establish-
ment of an Advisory Board and the upgrading of ENA to post
secondary level (para. 3.12);
(b)  for the National School of Forestry Sciences (ENF), satis-
factory evidence of the availability of financing for equipment
and technical assistance (para. 3.16); and
(c)  for the training of professional veterinarians:  (i) a signed
contract between the Ministry of Natural Resources and EDUCREDIT;
and (ii) satisfactory evidence of the establishment of a committee
for the selection of fellowship candidates (para. 3.18).
7.04      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$5.0
million to the Republic of Honduras.
February 14, 1978






ANNEX I
CtIMPARAIIVL LDUCAIJON INDICAttIRS                                                    TABLE T-1
Page 1 of 2
I JAN, II, 1979 I
..........................................................                        .......................................................................
I                                                            I       I            a             I        I       I   -    I
'.Ne/      C-411  11 TIIIAI 111  IIF PUBLIC 11                     11           IPRI, jAV'PI#l#   I               I         13I.C  IT        I
1100111AI Dt"11041"Hil It: I to"I.14TWO    ji.ITER. I PRI, iCtIMPLE. 1514-                                              W , islu- I             I
IAlI 11, I 011,1  1XI'. I FILLUTIMCNr    $ACV                OENHOLLifilIN        oDfNIDIgAtAitY IklInN MAIE 1NRL1LLkDENTSjNIQHkRj
, I T.   'B' ICIDLIVOILOW            ALLOCArl'01  RAIF lithill) IIIAtE FUNIPCR   lititAITUN iFili'M PRI,IRATIO  IPER   IENRULLI
P-11'. if'O ILI !.: I XI'.  I   ft)   I       ILII       i (I LIF   I NEt  IFIIII.SCM.MACHO In GNP/ IN) SEC,   I NEt   ITFACM- RATIOI
'(PIM111.5.1 1115S):  OIL V )I  UDU. IIIRI. 3LC, HI.IADULTSJI (t)  ICYCLE(II)IIER    I CAPIIA   I   (1)                          I CS)   IEN    a (X)   I
I        I                      I                 I          I        I           I       I            I             I        I       I         I
(0  It  Ile) :   (1)        :   (4)   I       CS)        I (b)    I(7) I   (Al    I (4)I   (IO                3 Ot)         l(la)   1(13) 9(14)   1
....................................................................................................................................
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA           71    7.SL 4,410t         ov.s      Ova      470   ISD   109    99          901-   911           26         ?to         49         St       19       6.00
CANAVA            ie  ez.5L 6. usitr         7.7    19,4       34    In    19        98       89         9a        24         ato         99         sa       17       9.00
I]ER'4ANY F.WLI'de  ItO. a I. 6, ?.0        4 . JI   14.2      ...  74*4 eb          04       91         99       .33                     49         qt       22      17.00CY
JA PA t,          7i Ivy,'TL 4,OuL           4.1    eq.?       39    3a    la        99       990        99C       ZSC        2.0         99C       1040      POC    26.000
NEIMLNLANUS    7I   I A, 51- %,?SVC          F, . S  I 1) . tu   -%a    as    19     tiq      9s         9s        24         S'(         97         73       24      il'ou
N[- ZLALANil   ?I    I.OL 4.110C            S.?    .1.         34    a4    1-9       99       99         99        26         vo-         99         67       19      24.00
NOR.Ay            lt    4.QL S.AbqC         7 , o    0. I      SR    ji    13       99        99        98         20         1,9         99         76       14      11.00
SwCDE4            73    A'c 7,240L          R.9    I 4'..)    36    t4    11        99       99         99        17         0 0 1       90         45       10      30.00
U.K.              72  55, 'IL 3, Sqgt        6.1    I ,.I      26    19    22        ga       99         ...       26         2,0         1-6        b3       I?      11.00
U.S.A.            V? 411.yL 1,,Out           6.4    15.4        ...  73** 27         99       99         qq        2su        204         1-1        103      iqu    29.00
CURLIPC
70    4.1  ?,SYQ          ?.6    10.4        37    16    21       ebb      q9         A2D        31       2,0          70E        80       27      15.00
IRLLAND           11    3.ft  2, lke,)C     5.1    t3.91)   4%f   41Y   14Y    901           ft?        94A        Ss        ...          9%A       75        19       7.00A
PONTUGAL          75    4.6   1,.3g         4, 4    07.A      Sz    27    11        it)      9a         Ss        21       Soo           70        ag        14       7.60
ROMANtA           YS   al.1   t, 1464       4.0    ft.4        3%     O      11     9R        lati                 at        ...          as        49        22      10.00
SPAIN             71  SS.IL 2,4991          2.40   15.2A    49Y   22Y   ISY    94A            91A                  SSA       off          9-0       agA       'SO      6.00A
AFRICh
ALGKR IA          77   tft.4      Y-OtIG     ?,S               42    '..  Zt         is       7ax        4s        19         4'a         S's        26X      13       6.00
BENIN             71,   A.ol.   1?*L         1%. ,   Savo      47    .1    to        11       32XB       ?*a       Soo       2s . all     439         76      398      o,4w4cy
UUTS.ANA          74    Q'7       "',       S.0    ?0.4        3H     "      is      2s       ?OX        7s        Is         5.9         24         13X      la        *'Oy
BORIIN111         74    1.0        40       2.5    1).qu    47A   4111  12R    la             2OX        110       is        10.0         14          ax      is        I'D
CAKLRIIUN         73   'P. &L    ?SO[       5.9    d'O.V       IKY   z9Y   17y    ...         74         ...       SIDY    ...            e.,         9       23CY    0,90CY
C.A.R.            7;j   I.%       p1qL       4.4k   IV.%       sb    tq    ...    ...         44tv       as       fisev    P..            is          SCY    ?78V    0.67Y
CHAD              ?S    4.oL    I ovE        11.0    lu.4      7A    Z2              IS       29xsy    3a         fisay    lS'Q            a          2xey   30        0,01ey
CONGO(O)          74    10        470        6.9    19.1       40    Itz    21       Sol    133%         61       fill        6.0         40         33X      a2       3.40
EGYPY             74  Itb. 4      ?Mt,      Sol       ...      Io    36    24        4q       74X       4S         40                     64         39X      26      11,00
ET4111PIA         7.  ift,V       luv       Z'm    t S.m       2"    is    I t,       7       21       ...         so                     63          a       34
GAbith            I't   m.S   t,Qt,qL       5.4    2V.b        2-i     9    It       ...    InAlkaY    zst         qhc        Sea         t6A.       aer      21C       1:44ty
GAMI,jA           70    V.S       liv        "i    - I .'.     ;.    .1       b      I -)     21        1.4        3%        ...          92         &3       2.
GHANA             71   It. *L    4 401       4.1    ?4.qUR   189   150   ISO    ...           S&XCY    6a          SOCY    ...            14         Aix      16cy    0.74gy
IVQICI( c"Abi    7e    60L    qtQE          b. 1;   24.7       27gy Ildl 13Y          9A      S2        s74        46       I..           0-9        to       25       1.209Y
KENYA             To   IS.R       ?4o       s.g    e..v        67    is    to       40        go?       601        114        600         so         16       27       1,0
LE SOT "U         75    I.t       i4qr               11.0      49    IN    Zi        40       as         S4        sa         hilk                   to       26        t'40
LISCH(A           7.   I.S       41o       ?.I    13.e        ?T    Is    I to    73         SR         ...       3s         2,0                    la       26        1.10AY
MADAGASCAII    Id    R.6          140       3.2    II . j      St    dq    as       44        6AX        141       6%        is's         46          qx      26        1.00
MALAAI            lb    5.a       140       ?.4    10.0        4i    16    23        2s       S6Fx       II        S2        '?, 4        70          4EX    20         0.26cy
MALI              75    S. Tr      149F     4,zm   33.vr    45F   SIF   taF    IOF            22xr                 48F       q'SF         SGF         ix      23
MAURITANIA        ?v    WL    ?4vt           4 ''   ?1.0       ...    ...    ...    19       151,                 91         f..                     3       24
MAUH111113        7#.             b9s       4,7    I... I      SU   1?6       a      nvc      94         90        14                      9#
MORI It;cu        74 1            Itio                                                                                        4.S                    49       32        I'So
S'Qc   I...s       44    07      9      261      Sax        21        ly                     It         93X      21        2'Go
NI6ER I A         71  730C    11?7F          3.?N   ...        49*   ?.A   ZOA    ...         39xcr                34cy                               4       20ey    o.3?cy
RWANDA            73    vi.vL      avE       I'?C   A.qo    ...   ...   ...   2`3            sz                   St                                 a       13        0.23cy
3ENCGAL           79   4.qL    SNoL         4'qN   it.5011  34A   GRA    $*    IV             3ex        ...       46         ...                    six      25        t.71cy
31ERRA LEII14L   71    1.9L    SYML          3.4    ?1.4       31    36    31        IS?      34X        4S        32-        4,61E       65         13X      21        0.538Y
5U4ALIA           ?S    1.4       log       1.70   19'NO    190   160   190   .502            341       a6         3s        16.6         66          3       is        0.10
3UDAN             TO   IS.4L    2NOE        4.S    13.?        41    29    201    Is          36         7s        4s         4,0         2S         11       20        1,23Y
3WAZILAND         TS    0.5       479        ;,A      ---      38    3i    19        so       73         ?I        p          3.8         St        24        22        1.00
TANZANIA,         74   tGOL    16ot         S.104  17.0        ltb    ...  la        63       44X        ...       49         .1.          7          2       21C       0.30
7UNZSIA           1rit   5.1;L    6501:     6.v;   ?3.4        17    411   In        Ss       72         at        4t         6.0         31         14       21        3.00
UGANDA            70   11.tL    p4of        S.PN   17.aCR   400   220   2SO    2S4            4sXCy                16                     14A         4
UvecR VOLT&    7'e   S.AL          guE       4.9    -I.9                                                                      fell                      XCY  21         .'sesy
JAIRC                                                           6s    1.      6       5       I*         ...       4s        44.0         20          2       a3        0.0tay
71  24.1L    lsot         SOICN k1.3C    S4C   t7C   29C    is              61        is         44A       6.0          43          a       24       0,968Y
ZAN61A            74    4.A       Sig       S.%    14.2        34    to    14,    43          as         so        47         9.0         2.         13       22        1,60
CENTRAL A-COILA AND Tkt: CAR113HI AN
;-------------
4:9L    A49r       5 P     e.1:7      SI    Is    I?        okq      $&CY       6s        "q         3.0         so         22cy    25
DUMINICAN RLI'.7t            L    bSgL       3:0    13 9                                                                                                               12.11CY
CL SALVADI-H                                                    42   1?4    ae       St       so         I?        54         3100        63            ;'CS   24       7
75    IL, it L    4101    1.6,   ?I.n        41      5    II      608       4sc       ...        M y                    39                   'eV        o,
GUATC-ALA         711   S. IL    sMgL        1.9    I..o                                                                      .19                             2         4:SsBy
NAlft                                                           SS    Ill   14       47       64         26        35         its         69          a       2s        4.oqy
T.    a.?      ?00        1.9      A.0       4t    21    11       JOB       2SF       13         s6U       3.0         62           4       ...       0.7
MONOURA3          75    Z.9       3904       4,,,G   JR.RG    6IG   ISG   19G    S3           Ts         10        3s         3.0         68         It       IT        4.00
iAqAICA           7le   Z.QL I . I -)*I      6.sy   t9.7        IIY  i2y    Ty    R6         106xy       ...       S2                                12xy    iq         4 79y
ME X T CO         To  ST.4c I , ON"c        2.4       9.3      S4    24    it        76       Yt         31        46
N IC ARA r.11A    74    -. uL    .79t       .h. S   1,1.2                                                                    390         63         29       23        6:32cy
IRL41DAD & T, 7.                                               41    is    13        S7       6s         at        37         2.0         91         17       24        7.04
30IJfh AMEVILA           1.00 1,A75E         1.4k   $4.Ro    S#E   JSE   13t    OOL            III       91         34        2.00        49         44       2s         10;
;ZMA              7"    5.8       lisf       S.#    17.SF                            %A       17B        29D        Z4        SF'         1.1         40       too
SRAZIL             rl 101.9   1,010         %.v    sz.4        ;;; -;Q'r    ;;c  44A         86C        ...        2TCY
CMILL             74   10.4L   1130C         A.by   1Q..AY   36Y   14Y   Say                                        3781                             26a       ISCY    6.009
CULIIMBIA         70  21.jL    Savor         4.    14p.9       35    #A    26       is         1,                  36                    'a          7                 ...
ECIIAOIIR         7,-   ..4L    linoc        't.?    ?1.7t    4sQY 429Y lqoy  69              721        ...        Sol                   0.1       11         1:       ::91701,
GUVAhA            74    V.A       -960       S. AN   14.70    47    is    14         AgA      92K        39         31        6.6          19        682 1     124         00
PARAGUAY          714   Its       %I 1)      I'A    I I .#      55    13    zi       Al       #1 11      26         30         1.9       fis         17                51:09
PERIO             71  1-4. 41-   749L        4.S    ;,4. 1 0    So    I2    $S       72       so         is         390Y      3.6          70       'so       2131DY   12.00
ur(lirlitAy       71,  J.. A   t , 34;4p     ;' S    t%.3       46    14    Iq       94       qfi         ...       24                     83         .4.       0
WENEZI)CLA        7t  11..bL t,469E         .4.6     19.9       '100   ,HQ   ISQ   77'%       at        ...        33           4         4.1       33                1-,.:3cy



ANNEX 1
CI*HPAnAYOVL tCDUC.TION IN~DICATORS   (CONTD)                                TABLE T-1
Page 2 of 2
ItJAN, 33.  1978I
I       I        2          S         S                 2         8        I          a      S            3            S           I   II
I       8 CNr'j I I G41V  it TO)!ALIX  [IF PUBLIC I                        a          aPR?. SAV.PRI.                            SWSIIC 2 
a       SCA3'l1A2 o DVonTD8r'u$LL t    T DULATIIIN   ILITEI'     PRI, SCOMPLE. SSTU- 1SCH.TEACM:PROGRE33.8  3EC. $STU-I8 
I   Al  a 1I  LUU.8  LXI'. I FlEuurirT*E           IACY       88NHOLL8FION        2OENTS8SALARY IN8ION RATE SENROLLEOENT31MIGMER2
I       g93AI.'I*j (s 8r'UILILIOr'VIITLDIEXP ALLOCATED:  RAT.'E gRA(ID  8RArC FUJRzPER   iRELATION :FROM PRI,SRATIO $PER   tEN,*CL.L.
IPillp. g**21(jj3 LXOP.        Ti'    I     TU:        IC   Or 21     NET  sPR!,SCH.:rEACHI TO GNP/ i rO SEC.   3 NET   17EACM.. RATIO:
YI'8VJLLS.  (iJ.A)t "'k TI   S  LDU. aPRI.  LC, 1t8.vAOUVSJi CZ)   ICYCLECO)2If4                  CAPITA   S  (0)        a 81)  SIR    g (1) s2
8       2                                 S2                               2          3      2                         2       8       I        8-
* tEl 23  (2?) I  Cl)    I  (')  t8           (5)       S (6)    8C 7) I      (Al)    2 (9) 2  (30)    1 (81)          8C323   aCI31S)  (34)   2
ASIA AND .8:LA091A
AFGHAN15.8AN    la   2o.11    Ito                          398'  232'  16P    8#Ai      260       24        48        5*so        78         ex     28       8.00
BANr.LAO*E2-     7A  7,..4L    2001L      8?        .          .. 23                    560       ...       48         .          ...       23%     25       *..
CHINA(TAI.A%l 75  15.78.    a*[38        1t.2    3'8*Q     2A4 ?                 2      9RC       94        40       14.0         a4        bic     26      20.OOC
11,D8A           72 %95.bL    8'fio       Z.aVY .,..         .....             29       79        *...      43A       ..          *,         8       ?0AY   4:.OIAY
18801l4C58A      7*3 8llo8      ?./EfO    1.9F   gi.or    69    22    to       bob1    791        43        30        2.06        52        19X    14        2.0
IRANI            71  13,1L 1,P508         t.1 lt1?.b       SUB   2og   I 8    5*9       77        74A         12      5.08        BOA       24       12      '8,32CY
IRA'             7,e  So . L 81,118r      6.7    14',31D     . ....             24      6280      ...       22        ...         ..*       260C1   2.       4..JAcy
J311DA,d         719   1.t.L   .8108      7.0      A*H     S2    is    23      59       930       76        38        5,0         8*8       500      22      4.00
KU48:A           75.  3%.1t     5  Sb     Z.'    I ,.R LA   5b   31      2     9de I 2040         98*       52        3.5         77        550      38      7.8
L.ELIAki         le    1.21. 1,0708:      3.5    IR* Pt.    19    40    go     68*      86,       65         89       2.0         63        2b0      25     23.00
MALAYSIA         Yu  It.?       0-1*)     6,'I    ?n.O o   44    31    It      60L:    96F        #0        12        4.00        83F       'lAP     27F     3.0Oo7
NEPAL            7.    2.07,b   8i@F      1.1    30.0      29    20    41       89      59        28        31        2.3         64        84       24      0.8
UMAN             72-   v. L t bfqC8    2.7N    S."*    9o               *       20      240       99        31        7,0          .,       0.4X      9        .
PAKIStA%         715.  b8.0     l13u      8.6    80.2      45    Os    14      23       *870      so        39         ?.0        *.        37X      iB      6.00
PAP-,A N.G:.     75    2.6      480       5.6    th..      lA4   16    24      32       577       732'      31       83.0         90        320?    24       0.90?
P'9ILIPI'II-,LS   74  fl1,4L   '1101.      .5 S   34.9     71    Is    12      Al7    804          *.       34       35.0         ...       '860     ...    21.00)
SI..YllA'Jr8     l 7      .2   ?,rl:      .1.    8..2      44    33    I5      7S0      960       72A       33        *.1         99A       571     24       B.?sT
SYRIA            I 5.   7.4     .oo       1.4   t09         30    25    26     53       889       70        35        2.0         92        45       21     12.00
I8AILAND         73  4w.7L    1308:       4.ONF ~'0.7r    65       9    is     8*2      2173      93C       12        3.0 U       918:      21X     24       2.00
TUNALY           ?ce  17.40   9. iof      ...    t3.0D8*.....    .             ..        ,SXCY    ...       140Y         I  ..   *.         2270    270Y   5.31BY
18:9*8:8.   ~~~71    4.48:   gIgE1    V.5     *8u      45P'  ZIP  W32    10         S5 8                1          .         75          OX     19       0.0501
YEMEN P.0.k.   le.     I 8,6L    ?"08     ?, IA   22Z. 6   79   S22      -      I 0     ?0x       ILI       29      I30.0         99        82x      208      0.0 800
SUMMA1RY F1** LIILVLL**I'8NG C**UN11t03 S.
l*UML8CR 187F C:I11t1RE83                 77     is       71    72    72      74       90        s8        Al           Ss       is        el       76        74
R&NGF'                                80,5S-   (I."-   (25- to-   (V-    (S-         (J0-      (17-      (349.      (8.8-    (7..       (.       (9.      (.018
Iv.)    12.1;  Y*(',  :..   4 ,)    909      18402    99 I      65 I         s 5.42    991      7'.:!'.-3'       23.0)
08ANTILLS:***IIN  1         ~~~~~~~~~         ~~~. ?    22.2  55    it   lea  75  57  75        46          8        80        29       26       6.0
ML.8)A9*1                  4 ,60   Sol. 0   45    23    8s      so       73        50        18           5        63        36       23      2.00
3             It~~~.0a   31.9   36    36    22      21       52        10        31          S        25          9      20        .9
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                      -.--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
SYMAL9LS ... LIATIsm IINAVAILAALI-               A-1970 OR9 IIEFLRr            H=CUI(IENT PRICIS                           SOURCESI
-    AC'8118lDL 8801 LII? NLGL 1G001LL i8..2'71                   N:62P                                       - ---
7  80LSTI.INABLC                    L=297Z                        PzINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                      C82LUJN381  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
A*  IIJILUDI-3 PART-FIM4E STUDLNYS 0=1971                           O=(ENTRAL GOvr, ONLY                                             OR 2640 MISSIONJS
**  C1i08188E0 wITH PI'RMARY           t1.5344                       *zH'*NISTRY OF EDUJCAtION CMOE) ONLY                    3 TO 14 10R0  MISS1ONS
0*8*  UI.DCM  RrV88:4                    F.2975                        6=I`UE AND 580ArE Guvr, ONLY                                     AND/OR UNESCO
680u976                       11LXCLUD1ING  CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
LUIPU0LJC ONLY                                                   YEARBOOK
#&IWCLLIDING PRIVATE EXPENDI'TURE
Xzl*CLLJDING OVERAGED STUOENTS
Y=LNE.SCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE LOULAIJ41N DATA AIlE 8858UFUL IN INC LVALUAIION OF VARIOUIS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND AIA1*11352 O7 RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
l>EVELi'i-*rNY ULT7,11:1  VArl08181, CIUNrR3LS. HiI*rVEVI?,ON8 THE BASIS UF THC PRESE5.NT DArTA,CRk).qS-NATI8INA1, COMPIARISOIN S81801.  HE APPRUACHED WITH
CACAT CA'911*'t.. OATA P80:SL#j1LD IN IHI ABL8VL TA*L.1' HAVL 38LEN CULLECTL.) IARGCLY BY rHE BlANK 81818510N0 FROM GO1VERNMENT SUURCES1 THE
REIIAINDEIN A"L STAFF LS18MAILS POR DATA FRi*M UNLOCCi. EFFO)RrS HAVL 881:14 MADE to srANL*ARIOZE DLFIN8rIONS AN0 WITHIN LIMI7S, TO ChECK THE
ACCIRACY O9* 89*L DATA. P8rvcEIMICLFSS,SUCII VATA Ailtr STILL IMPURFCCT IN SEVERAL RESPEcrS AND T'*. BANK 15 WORKING1*  TO IMPROVE liMEM
PROG.R3SS2VrLY i8l, 19*8L OCCASIOlN ITr l3s IIwE8AT2IONA. WOLRK, IN TIlL USL  ITF TVIESL DATA, TIlE FOLLUw1NG OUALIFICAIIUNS SHOULD aE BURNE IN
MIND.,
(j)'r0Ut:AtZ*LIIJ AS 0ouF4N.D IN 1ikE 80A18: 1NcLuorS ALL EDUCATION A4D TRAINING, FORIMAL ARND N(IN-FORMALS1
82)'3'VIVArY CDI*CATI*N I0L7its let L.0UCA08IL1N AT THE FIRST0 1.1V1.L AN) IS6CUNDARYOY  EDUCATIUN RCER0n TO ALL EDUCATION Al THE SECONDARY
L8:VC[ IOLGAT?8LLS3 *8F IYI'I  (t,8:. CFNI4818A1, TiICNICAL, A1588ILULTU.IAL) pI
(1)'LITL:IIALY rArLS88t*3IL,6) 488l tirrT1N IIITA8NrD FROM COIUNTI8V CI.31NSSC, IN MANYE1UIRIJRFB THEY AR85 ONLY APPROXIMATION$ AND If is
OOultPilt-8 THAT AIIT 18N87*8I8  n8784113888* lIF "LI TL8A TER 81A01 SIFN  c0tm118:  81811 TN ILlp
(4)'1414tiIL 83I.XPL'.*881 in*tr 181 LnIUCArTIN8Ec*iI a5,1,  4N*) 5) 01.71.  TU ALL cApirFAL AND NICLJAR:NT EXPEND? TUNES DCVI8TED TO) I)1CA1181N BY
VI'**.L8. A8.D (JUASI-PU8 IC 3AGI8 NC18581
(5)EiIlI.LMII.TIATI*5.-ICIII Z; 7, 82 AND fill lrrF(R  rfl SChU8J(L Yr&R 49*8 MEAN THF P1.I1E8:NAGF fIF SLIOILiLI CMII.T*RElN 9NN8LLID FULL.TIMI
IN 3F9L AIIIPI r9'8!3A3 1L :'iII*8 , IOliLIC ArID PII80Ar8` Ii I LEVEL. 1818Y A01. Oif EN 6UNJL.j I TO A HI8jt. MARGIN (12' ENROU IN TMT PfIftI,01419
8:I*881TI'l8 5 UsIJNG Tit VARiA TII*N 1N IlL ACCURACY UF BASIC DAMI,f.E  AG8:..fPT8:UIC POPKAT.8OJIN AND FhROLLIMLN76B)  LN11fd8LLHTNY  PG*JNES
F8C (11I.t.L8,IY AIOL 9IGH180 (MANi I84L N09*B1.8  Of SIUDLNTS ALTUIALLY I"1  SCMCKI1I,, (IVEJIAGED ATLJDCNT&S MMCIII INCLUSION la INDIGATIB   By
Fill'ITM'3TL- AL1.( LAN INF1.2ArL IHL. RATIOS8,



AM"N I
TABLE T-2
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Recuirements of Professimal and Technical Manpower: Agriculture-Forestry Sector and Total
(1961, 1974, 1987)
1961                                 1974                                 1987                                 Manpower Requirements 1974-1987
Whole          Agriculture/          Whole          Agricult.rl         Whole           Agricult.rT/                Whole Economy                Agriculture & Forextry
Economy         & Forestrv_          Economy         & Forestry-         Economy          & Forestry-          No      Reglacement   Total    New    Replacement   Total
1. GDP at Factor Cost (million 1966 h)                   757               276              1.330               427              2 550               691
7 annual change                  -                  -                4.4                3.4               5,1_              3.83_
2. Total Population   (000'.)                          1,884.89                                -                                 4 047r 76
% annual change                  -                  -                2.7                 -                3.3  4L
2.1 Labor Force    (0001s)                            568.0             379.1              762.8             460.6            1,208.0)            603.5
% annual change                  -                  -                   2.3               1.5             3.6  -/            2.1  5/
2.2 Employment      (000's)                           534.0             360.1-6/           713.5             437.6             1,129.6            573.3            416.1       278.3        694.4  135.7       170.7        306.4
3. Productivity         (1966 L per worker)            1.418                766             1_864               976               2.257            1.205
% annual change                  -                  -                2.1-               1.9               1.5                1.6
4.  Bpyment of Professional and Technical
Personnel           (000'a)                            13.3             rna                                     1.8              63.3              5.1              34.8         11.1        _4.9    3.3         r.7           4.0
4.1 In Production Activities (000'6)                   13.3                0.6              28.5                0.8              63.3              1.2
as 7. of 2.2                        2.5               0.16              4.0                0.18               5.6             0.21
% amnual change                    -                                     3.7               0.9                2.6             1.3
4.2 In Public Sector (000's)                           9/                a.0.               9/                  1.0-/9                               3.9
% anual change                              -                           -                 -
1/ Fishing and hunting included.
2/ 1976-1982: 5.7%; 1982-1987: 5%.
2/ 1976-1982: 4.5%; 1982-1987: 4%.
4/ CEILADE estimate based on vital rates. Assumes undereatimation of 1974 Census data.
5/ 91.7% of total rural population; % annual change as estimated by CELADE-CONSUPLAN.
6/ Employment rate of rural labor force.
7/ Productivity change likely to be overestimated due to 1974 Census undernumeration.
8/ Estimated.
9/ Included in 4.1.
SOURCES:  National Census, Central Bank, CONSUPIAN, World Bank and Mission estimates.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
Educational Profile of the Labor Force (1961-1974)
1961                                                    1974
Agricultural                                            Agricultural
Total                      Workers                      Total                       Workers
Levels and Years of Education         No.         %                No.        %                No.        %                No.         %
University                          3,884        0.7               146       0.0             9x885        1.3               303       0.1
1:-- 3                              956       0.2                                          3,1 3       0.4
4 - 6                             3,230        0.4                                         5,761        0.8
7+                                  698        0.1                                           941       0.1
Secondarv                          25s363       4.5             1,371        0.4            58,860        7.7            3.096        0.7
1 - 3                            11,456       2.0               861                       18,761       2.5             1,587
4 - 6                            13,907        2.5               510                      40,099        5.2             1,509
Primary                           229,324      40.4           122,644       32.8           378,719      49.7           180.267       39.1_
1 - 3                           158,104      27.9           102,446       27.4           203,952      26.8           122,468       26.6
4 - 6                            71,220       12.5           20,198        5.4           174,767       22.9           57.799       1265
No Formal Education               294,635       51.8          241,838       64.6           310.689      40.7            239,390      52.0
Unknown                            14,786        2.6            8,223        2.2             4.647        0,6           37.544        8.1
TOTAL                             567,988      100.0          374,222      100.0           762,800      100.0          460,600      100.0
1/ Of 10 or more years of age.
SOURCE: CONSUPLAN,Diagnostico de los Recursos Humanos 1961_1974, Tegucigalpa 1976 (based on 1961 Census and 10% sample of 1974 Census).
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
TABTE T-4
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Ministry of Natural Resources
Number of Unfilled Professional and Technical Vacancies
(as % of total
Occupation                      Dec. 1975    Dec. 1976    Jan. 1977          stock
Administrators & Planners           8             3              7
Agricultural Engineers             28            24             41           (16)
Agronomists III & IV -/             2             3             31           (13)
Agronomists I & II 2/              27            32             46           (11)
Veterinarians                       3            11             21           (40)
Other Professionals                 6             9              9
Other Technicians                   -            10             19
TOTAL                              74            92            164
Budgeted Salary
Expenditures ('000 t)             680.6         874.6        1,670.1
1/ Includes Zamorano school graduates.
21 Includes Catacamas school graduates.
SOURCE: Ministry of Natural Resources
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
HONDURAS                                                             TABLE T-5
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Projected Output of Secondary and Post Secondary Schools in Agriculture and Forestry (1977-1986)
Total Graduates
Graduates Proceeding            Remaining
Total     To Further    To Other           in Sector at
School                            Education Level                       Graduates      Studies 1/   Sectors 2/    Technical Level
J.F. Kennedy Agricultural School          Grades 7-9                                     172            -              12                160
Grades 10-12                                   595           178            15                402
National School of Agriculture,           Grades 10-12                                    41            10              1                 30
Catacamas
Grades 13-15 (Agriculture)                     288            72             7                209
Grades 13-15 (Animal Science)                  144            36             4                 104
Panamerican Agricultural School,         Grades 13-15                                   350           105              9                236
Zamorano
Sub-Total Agriculture           Grades 7-9                                     172            -             12                 160
Grades 10-15 (Agriculture)                  1.274           365             32                877
Grades 10-15 (Animal Science)                  144            36             4                104
National School of Forestry,              Grades 10-12 ("Peritos")                       474            71            85                 318
Siguatepeque                                                                           -                                               -
Grades 13-15 (Gen. Forestry)
Grades 13-15 (Forestry Industry)                96            15            17                  64
TOTAL                                                                       2.160           487            150              1.523
1/ Based on partial data provided by the schools. It is estimated that once the J.F. Kennedy School is upgraded, the percent of graduates going into
further education will be higher than that observed at present for Catacamas graduates, due to the additional opportu nities for short-duration post
secondary studies to be offered by the new upgraded Catacamas school.
2/ 7% for J.F. Kennedy School; 2.5% for National School of Agriculture and Panamerican Agricultural School.
SOURCES:  Ministry of Natural Resources, CONSUPLAN, individual schools, Mission estimates.                                           December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
HONDURAS                                                               TABLE T-6
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiected Re"uirmenta for Middle and High Level Technicians in
Agriculture. Animal Science and Forestrv (1977-87)
REQUIREMENTS 1977 - 87                                       PLANNED OUTPUT 1977 - 87
4/           6/
1977 Stock                  Additions             Replacements         Total                                         Entering
Public  Private            Public    Private                                      Annual        Total     As Z Total       Relevant 5/  As % Total
Sector  Sector  Total      Sector    Sector   Total                    1977-87   Average    Graduates  Requirements  Occupations  Requirements
Agriculture           556     150     706        1,238      150     1,388          212        1,600     160.0        1,274          8Q            877            55
1/      2/
Animal Science         94              94          160        -       160           28          188      19.0          144          77            104            55
1/      3/
Forestry              165             165          620        _       620           30          650      65.0          474          73            318            49
Forestry Industry       -       -        -         165        -       165            -          165      16.5           96          58             64            39
1/ No data available. Numbers known to be negligible.
2/  Includes personnel with no formal qualifications employed by the Ministry of Natural Resources.
3/  Includes graduates from the National School of Forestry Science employed by COHDEFOR.
4/  3% annually.
5/ Foreign graduates and graduates going on to further education or to other sectors of activity are excluded.
6/ For the five main public agencies, the corresponding expansion in staff posts would represent additional recurrent expenditures of about Z13 million
(1977 prices), equivalent to an average annual increase of about 1% over their 1977 combined recurrent budget.
SOURCES: Relevant individual public agencies and mission estimates.
December 15, 1977



ARID 1
HONDURAS                                                           TABLE T-7
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
Stock of TraLned Agricultural Manpower in Employment
(March 1977)
Professional                         Technician                                     Total
2/
Agricultural   Agricultural
Agronomists   "Bachilleres"    "Peritos"                               Middle/Higher
Agricultural    (Zamorano         (Catacamas      (Kennedy                   All            Level
Engineers        School)         School)         School)        Other   Categories    Technicians
Principal Public Agencies                       195              61             359             56             -          671            476
Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR)             137              41             153             30              -          361            224
National Development Bank       (BNF)             10              7             130              -              -          147            137
National Agrarian Institute   (INA)               35             12              37              -              -           84             49
Honduran Coffee Institute       (IHCAFE)          13              1              39             26             -            79             66
Other Public Agencies                            34             43               23              4            IQ          114              80
INFOP                                            11              20               7              -            10           48              37
COHBANA                                           4               3               -              -             -             7              3
Other   4/                                        19             20              16              4              -           59             40
Private Sector                                   28              54              42             54              -          178            150
Main Firms                                        28             47              22             48-             -          145            117
Other   6/                                         -              7              20              6              -           33             33
TOTAL                                           257             158             424            114             10         956             706
1/   Manpower in some teaching institutions excluded.
2/   Catacamas School graduates with "perito" diplomas included.
3/   Including 11 university graduates in their "social service" year.
4/   Partly 1976 figures.
5/   Some "peritos" graduated from Catacamas School are probably included under this heading.
6/   Estimated at about 5% of total on the basis of data from the survey of Catacamas School graduates.
SOURCES: Individual agencies; telephone survey of main private firms; A. J. Valle, Estudio Analitico
de la Escuela Nacional de Agricultura, Secretaria Recursos Naturales, 1976 (Minieo); and
mission estimates.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX I
TABLE T-8
HONDURAS
SECON-D EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollment in Primary Education by Area and Grade (1970-75)
Enrollments
Area and Grade       1970         1971        1972          1973        1974         1975
Urban -
Grade 1           44,199       47,160       49,977      49,913       51,299      56,364
Grade 2           33,750       35,018       35,976      38,061       38,917      38,235
Grade 3           29,196       29,567       30,944      31,864       33,453      34,298
Grade 4           23,907       24,689       25,601      26,886       27,473      28,055
Grade 5           19,891       21,361       21,406      22,159       23,188      24,133
Grade 6           16,592       18,048       18,380      18,747       19,299      20,599
Sub-Total        167,535    .175,843       182.284     187,630      193,629      201.684
Rural
Grade 1           91,059       88,578       97,499      96,373      107,037     109,974
Grade 2           50,050       49,742      49,957       53,795       54,749      56,126
Grade 3           33,202       32,990       34,712      34,563       37,160       38,391
Grade 4           21,655       21,677       22,179      22,421       24,009      25,237
Grade 5           13,143       14,100      14,818       15,387       16,505      16,810
Grade 6            8,212        9,728       10,601      10,545       11,103      11,703
Sub-Total         217,321     216,815      229,766      233,084     250,563      258,241
National
Grade 1          135,258      135,738      147,476     146,286      158,336     166,338
Grade 2           83,800       84,760       85,933      91,856       93,666       94,361
Grade 3           62,398       62,557       65,656      66,427       70,613       72,689
Grade 4           45,562       46,366       47,780      49,307       51,482       53,292
Grade 5           33,034       35,461       36,224      37,546       39,693       40,943
Grade 6           24,804       27,776       28,981      29,292       30,402       32,302
TOTAL             384.856     392,658      412,050      420,714     444,192      459,925
SOURCE:  Unpublished records in the Directorate General of Primary Education,
Ministry of Public Education.
December 15. 1977



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-9
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Cohort Analysis: Urban Primary Schools
Ye                                     2                      3       Grades       4                                             6
_   I   +   9jof *S WX ,l ,~~~~~~~~I 
-       +      X ~ ~~ ~~6  369                          5\         8                  ,        ,W                    %
2                                   609 3   4               01             1     23 6   1              2 6     1        ,9
3~~~ 59                      259  462
4~~~~~~~~~~~
6~~~~~~~~~~~~6
9~~~~~~
4.                                                                               338  21 14            y    <                  3
_                                              15            3         r      t        3         -       i       < \ <x~~~~~6319
101                                                                                                        14
.n-lmet                                                                                               '-                    i;-.
3 ~   ~          ~           ~          ~          \
7          1                     130                                   |761  
FiErselets Tim                       r      3~                       ~ r  4             3F                 69      1          :                      9.3 Years
3,SB6 pupil years      =6.1 years
635 students to 4th grade 
per 4th
grade gradsato
Source: Minisnry of Education
5.090 pupil years
545 students to 6th qrade |= 9.3 Years per Bth
grade graduate
World Bask - 19071
1/ Based on a sample of 1974-75 data.
SOURCE: Miniatry of Education
December 15, 1977
Deeme   15317



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-10
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Cohort Analysis: Rural Public Primary Schools
Grades
Years,           1                      2                      3      '               4                      5                     6
322               2
-~~~~5                   424\25                     ''            ,        ,* 
2; 254/                                                             E             t                               E            :
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
8
49       1     16      1        1    63                1    149                          32
|12 \8                  8           8                   99: 
10       |     4       t        |     1      1         l      0     |4             108
<   4  \t                9  \3~~~~~~~~~5 1\\70                                                     |
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                         32r
~~~~~4~~~ ~                                  12                    27z
9      1 39
10                                                                                                                               4 
Enrollments                                                                                                  236
First-Timne      vi3                     E                     3                      3                  [      3      EE                                years
2861 pupil-years         =9   er  e
290 students to 4th grade  949 years per
4th grade
graduate
3270 pupil-years
t68 students to 6th           yearse    Pe
5th grade graduate                                                                        Soure: Ministry of Education
I/ Based on a sample of 1974-75 data.
SOURCE: Ministry of Education
December 15, 1977                                                                                                                     World Bank - 18072



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-11
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Primary School Textbook Production and Present Stock (1963-1977)
Subject                   Grade             Quantity         Present Stock.
Reading                              1 to 6            2,472,404           195,570
Language (Spanish)                   1 to 6            1,347,124            35,073
Social Sciences                      1 to 6              766,863            51,842
Mathematics                          1 to 6            1,416,633             78,537
Sciences                             1 to 6              787,685            44,259
Supplementary Books                  1 to 6              458,201            31,895
Teacher's Guides                     1 to 6              215,000            78,943
TOTAL                                            7,463,910            516,119
- / Includes textbooks being printed.
SOURCE: Ministry of Education
December 15, 1977



ANNEX I
HONDURAS                                                   TABLE T-12
SECOND EnuCATION PROIlCT
Secondary Enrollments by Levels. Fields of Specialization and Grades (l970-75)
- -   *         Enrollments
Level/Grade                       1970                 1971                  1972              2l73                  19T4
Lover Cycle                       29218                3359                  36,503            40,386                45.292           46.524
General
lo.         7                   13,601               15,983                17,366            18,285                20,877           21,502
20.        8                     8,382                9,358                10,764            12,201                13,326           13,638
30.        9                     6,629                2,049                 7,662               222               10,493            10,799,
Total  28.612        32,390                35,792            39,708               44,696            45,939
Agricultural
lo.         7                       79                    65                   71                82                    63               65
20.         8                       43                    58                   61                 57                   40               38
3o.        9                        o6                   44                    51                60                    34               30
4o.       10                    ______-                                                                                20               26
Total                                1280  _               167                  183                201                  157              159
Industrial
1o.         7                      305                   320                  343               280                   210              205
2o.        8                        96                  102                   109               121                    66               93
30.        9                        45                   39                    36                46                    90               52
4o.       10                        32                   41                    40                30                                      6
Total                                                      502                  5284773
Upner Cycle                       12.372               13,983                13.826            15.546                17,020           17,494
General
lo.       10                     1,812                1,880                 2,219             2,502                 2,712            2,850
20.       11                     1.410                1,444                 1.570                 3                 2,008            2 114
Total                              3,222                           3,324       17,9                        4,720  
Agriculture
lo.       10                        81                    76                   75                 78                   41                55
2o.       11                        71                   49                    45                 36                   40               34
Total        12                                             41                   50                 57                   31                3
Total  189  ~   ~      5i>S                  170               171                   112              128
Industrial
lo.       10                       102                    91                  105               187                   229              212
20.       11                        47                   94                    90               100                    82               84
3o.       12                        31                    25                    4                                      68               71
Total                                1                     210                -+269                342                  379               367
Teacher TrainiM
lo.       10                     1,339                1,226                 1,234               429                   781              946
2o.       11                     1,346                1,147                 1,089             1,126                   395              681
3o.       12                     1.390                1 261                 1 062             1.OT6                 1,103              377
Total                              4,0T5                                                        2,631                 2,279            2,004
Commercial Education
1o.        10                    1,932                2,635                 2,756             3,701                 3,817             4,017
20.       .11                    1,102                1,490                 1,730             2,003                 2,544            2,678
Tot3ali 12                                              1.078                 1.146                 6                 1.677                6
5,203                562               7,269                 8,038               46
Cc-ercial Secretarial
l.o       10                       482                  891                   312               543                   925              974
2o.       11                       295956
Total                  778               ~~~~~~~~~                        ~       ~~1,446  571  --98    1,92             1,571
Grand Total                       41,590               -47,042               50,329             55,932               62 312            64,018
*        SOURCE: Hinistry of Education
December 15, 1977



AN.,iX1 1
TJA91LE T-13
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Expenditures in Education. Actual 1967-1976 and Projections
(Million Lempiras)
Projection 1982
1967                            1972                            1976                       1977 Estimate                    (1977 Prices)
Rec.      CaP.      Total      Rec.       Cap.      Total      Rec.       Cap.      Total       Rec.     Cap.      Total       Rec.      Cap.        Total
1. Central Government -/            28.3        1.1       29.4      48.7        3.9       52.6       80.9      10.9      91.8        91.2     12.4       108.6      128         7          135
1.1 Min. of Education-/          28.3        1.1       29.4      48.7        3.9       52.6       80.4      10.3      90.7        89.9     14.85/    104.7
(trans. to Univ.)            (3.2)        -        (3.2)*    (6.0)        -        (6.0)    (11.3)      (1.3)    (12.6)     (12.6)    (1.3)      (13.9)
1.2 Min. of Natural3/
Resources (ENA)-               -          -          -          -         -          -        0.5        0.6       1.1         0.5      2.4        2.9
1.3 Non-formal Educ.
program                        -          -          -          -         -          -          -         -         -         0.8       0.2         1.0
2. Decentralized Agencies             0.2       1.2        1.4        2.4       1.0        3.4        8.3       2.8      11.1        12.4      5.7        18.1       28         7           35
2.1 University                     0.2       1.2        1,4        1.3       0.7        2.0        2.2       1.0       3.2         4.7      2.42/       7.1
2.2 INFOP                           -         -          -          -         -          -         2.3       1.6       3.9         4.3      3.0-/       7.3
2.3 COHDEFOR (forestry school)                          n.a.       n.a.      0.3        0.3        0.9       0.2        1.14-      1.2      0.3         1.5
2.4 Student aid6/                   -         -          -         1.1       0.0         1.1       2.9       0.0       2.9         2.2      0.0         2.2
3. Public Sector (1+2)               28.5       2.3       30.8       51.1       4.9        56.0      89.2      13.7      102.9      103.6     23.1       126.7      156        14          170
4. Private Sector
Primary and Secondary             n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      19.1        -        19.1       26.7                26.7        29.2       -         29.2       44         -           44
5. Total Education (3+4)              n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      70.2        _         75.1     115.9        -       129.6      132.2       _        155.9      200        14          214
6. GDP                                 -         -       1,196         -         -        1,634        -         -       2,431         -         -       2,783                           3,655
7. Central Govt. Expenditure        113.4      31,1      144.5      192.8      50.4      243.2      352.3     136.5     488.8       390.0    180.0       570.0      547       161           708
7/
8. Public Sector Expenditure-       149.1      46.5      195.6      246.3      64.8       311.1     474.6     205.3      679.9      577.9    254.0       831.9      869       452         1,321
7 as % of GDP                     9.5       2,6       12.1       11.8       3.1       14.9       14.5       5.6       20.1       14.0      6.5        20.5       15         4.4          19.4
8 as % of GDP                    12.5       3.9       16.4       15.1       4.0        19.1      19.5       8.5       28.0       20.8      9.1        29.9        23.7     12.4          36.1
S as % of GDP                                          n.a.                            4.6                             5.3                             5.6                                5.8
1 as % of C. Govt. Expend.      24.9        3.5       20.3      25.3        7.7       21.6       23.0      11.5      18.8        23.4      9.7        19.1       23.5       4.3         19.6
3 as % of Pub. Sect. Expend.    18.6        4.9       15.4       20.7       7.6       18.0       18.8       6.7       15.1       17.9       9.1       15.2        18.0      3.5          13.4
*   Estimated.
L/ Excluding small amount from Ministry of Health.
2/ In parentheses, transfers to the University, which are thus excluded from 2.4.  Data on others transfers not included for 1967 and 1972.
3/ In 1967 and 1972, included under Ministry of Education.
4/ Budget.
5/ 80% of budgeted expenditures.
i/ Includes EDUCREDITO loans or grants for studies abroad and that part of those for local students which are not included under the
expenditures of the mrresponding institutices.
7/ Includes expenditures of public enterprises.
SOURCE: CONSUPLAN, Ministry of Natural Resources, Central Bank, General Budget Directorate, World Bank and Mission estimates.
Dsca.r 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-14
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Fixed Investment in Education and Total 1977-1982
(Millions of Lempiras)
1977 /L                1978                1979                1980                1981                 1982
EDUCATION SECTOR                                            17.2                  J16_                 10.3                 9.6                11.1                15.0
Under implementation. I/                               17.2                    12.4                 2.4                   -                   _                    _
Programmed
- Regular school       1/                                                    1.8                 2.6                 2.7                 2.8                  2.9
construction programu
- Proposed project                                                           2.4                 4.5                 4.5                  2.8                 0.2
- Other I                                                                                          .8                2-4                  5.5                11.9
TOTAL ALL SECTORS                                          232.4                  316.2               414.4               408.                 447.7               450.0
1/ Adjusted assuming 70% implementation in the target year and 30% one year slippage.
2/ Mostly National University. Foreign financing to be obtained.
3/ Estimate
SOURCES; CONSUPLAN, World Bank, and mission estimates.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-15
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Recurrent Expenditures in Formal Education by Level (1972-1976)
(Million Lempiras)
Literacy
Seco,ndarv                  Other       and        Sub-Total       Central
Primary     Gen.'/   Tech.       Univ.      Higher    Adults      Academic        Admin.2/    Other       TOTAL
1972
1. Ministry of Education
(excluding transfers)                  32.0        4.4       2.1         -        1.1        0.4          40.0            1.8          -       41.8
Transfers                                     -         n.a.       -        6.9         -          -            6.9            -          n.a.       6.9
2.  National University                           -          -         -         1.5        -          -            1.5             -           -        1.5
TOTAL                                32.0        4.4       2.1        8.4        1.1       0.4          48.4            1.8          -        50.2
(%)                                 (66.1)      (9-1)    (4.3)    (17.4)       (2.3)      (0.8)       (100.0)
1976
1. Ministry of Education
(excluding transfers)                  43.3        5.6       2.92/       -         1.6       0.6          54.0            6.03/        -        60.0
Transfers                                     -         1.8        -       11.3         -          -           13.1            -          7.3       20.4
2.  National University                           -          -         -         2.2        -          -            2.2             -           -        2.2
3.  Other Agencies-/                              -          -        0.5         -        0.9         -            1.4             -           -         1.4
TOTAL                                43.3        7.4       3.4       13.5        2.5       0.6           70.7           6.0         7.3       84.0
(%)                                 (61.2)    (10.5)    (4.8)    (19.1)         (3.5)     (0.9)       (100.0)
1/ Including primary teacher training.
21 Arts included.
3/ Estimated.
41 Ministry of Natural Resources (included under Ministry of Education in 1972) and COHDEFOR (not available for 1972).
SOURCES:  Ministry of Education, Central Bank, CONSUPLAN  and mission estimates.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
HONDURAS                               TABLE T-16
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Recurrent Expendituresl/ Per Student in Public Education (1972 and 1976)
1972                                            1976
Level                 Expenditures   Enrollments   Unit Cost (L)   Expenditures   Enrollments   Unit Cost (E)
(Millions of Q)                                 (Millions of i)  _
Primary                            32.0         385,200             83             43.3         457,112             95
Secondary General and               4.4          10,563            416              5.6          17,277            324
Primary. Teacher Training
Secondary Vocational                2.1             701          2,996             (1.9)         (1,319)        (1,440)
Secondary Teacher Training          1.1             400          2,750              1.6           1,228          1.,303
1/ Ministry of Education
2/ 1975 figures in parentheses
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Mission estimates
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1 .
TABLE T-17
HONDURAS                                page 1 of 2
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Nuclei, Schools and Classrooms included in the Project
Department        Name of Nucleus             Code    Schools               Classrooms
To be           To be
constructed    equipped only
and equipped
ChOluteca         Agua Caliente de Linaca   Ch 1         16              13            10
"1           Jacomico                    Ch 2        12              9            11
"i           San Juan Abajo No. 1        Ch 3        13             10             7
it           Agua Fria                   Ch 4        12             10            10
it           Barrio Nuevo                Ch 5         9             10             4
Concepcion de Maria        Ch 6        16             14              8
San Benito                 Ch 7        13             11             6
It           San Marcos de Colon         Ch 8        11             10             9
San Francisco              Ch 9        16             13             8
Los Llanitos               Ch 10       15             11            15
It           Monjaras                    Ch 11       14             15            20
Copan             Copan Ruinas                Co 1       15             13            15
to           Nueva Armenia               Co 2        17             16             5
El Paraiso        El Tablon                   Ep 1       18             12            16
Jutiapa                    Ep 2        17             10            17
Trojes                     Ep 3        16             16             7
Maguengales                 Ep 4       13             12             3
San Isidro                 Ep 5        17             12             8
El Rodeo                   Ep 6        11             13             5
Morocell                   Ep 7        18             16            10
Jacaleapa                  Ep 8        11              9             6
La Paz            Montana Verde              Lp 1        11              9             6
it           Santa Elena                 Lp 2        11             10             3



ANNEX   -
TABLE T-17
Page 2 of 2
Department         Name of Nucleus           Code    Schools              Classrooms
To be           To be
constructed    equipped only
and equipped
Lempira           San Rafael                Le 1        16              29              5
Ocatepeque        Santa Fe                  Oc 1         17             14              9
La Encarnacion            Oc 2        23             20              12
Olancho           Zopilotepe                01 1         13             14             10
of            Bijagual                  01 2        11             15               3
El Jutiquile              01 3        15             21              19
Las Planchas              01 4        13             14               2
"t            Santa Maria del Real    01 5          11             20               -
Siguate                   01 6        17             23               2
San Jose de Rio Tinto   01 7          12             13               4
Las Mosetas               01 8        15             15               2
El Cerro                  01 9        17             20               2
Valle             El Corcovado              Va 1          7             10              2
El Saucito                Va 2        20             18               8
Desvio El Transito        Va 3        12               8              8
Agua Frla                 Va 4         7               8              3
Mangollano                Va 5        10               8              8
TOTAL  40 nuclei        558            545            308
.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-18
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Upgrading Courses for School Supervisors. Directors and Teachers
Implementation Schedule
1/                       US$ Cost
Courses                       Trainees     Weeks    Year        Estimate
1. Staff Teacher Training Schools
(a) School Organ.-Administration           20           6       1978       3,000
(b) Student Guidance                       20           4       1978        3,000
(c) Teaching Techniques                    50           4       1978        7,000
50          4       1979        7,000
50          4       1980        7,000
(d) Science Laboratory Technique           20           4       1978        3,000
(e) Preparation of Teaching Aids           20           3       1979        2,000
20          3       1980        2,000
20          3       1981        2,000
(f) Multigrade Teaching Techniques         50           2       1979        3,000
50          2       1980        3,000
(g) School Maintenance                     20           1       1979        1,000
2. Primary Education
(a) Supervision                            20           2       1978       1,000
(b) Nuclei Directors                       40           8       1978        6,000
(c) Teaching Techniques                   320           4       1979       13,000
(rural teachers)                      320           4       1980      13,000
320          4        1981      13,000
89,000
SUMMARY
Year        Courses         Trainees         Costs
1978           6             170            23,000
1979           5             460            26,000
1980           4             440             25,000
1981           2             340             15,000
Total:   17          1,410             89,000
1/ Teachers would participate in one or two courses,
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-19
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Curriculum for Primary Schools
Grades and Hours Per Week
1st       2d        3d      Ath bUh             6th
Health Education                     3         3         3        3         3         3
Spanish Language Studies             5         5         5        5         5         5
Mathematics                          4         4         4        4         4         4
Natural Sciences                     4         4         4        4         4         4
Social Studies                       4         4         4        4         4         4
Industrial Arts or
Home Economics                       4         4         4        4         4         4
Agriculture                          3         3         3         3        3         3
Fine Arts Education                   3        3         3         3        3         3
Guidance Counseling                  -         -         -         -        1         1
TnrTAL                         30        30       30        30        31       31
December 15, 1977



ANNEX I
TABLE T-20
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule
Specialists      No.                        Man/Months
Total     1979      1980     1981
Curriculum Development  (1)                 12         6         6        -
School Mapping           (1)                12         -         6        6
Textbooks Distribution  (1)                  6         -         6        -
Education Evaluation    (1)                  4         -         -        4
Agricultural Education  (2)                 24        12        12        -
Student Entrance System (1)                  2         2         -        -
TOTAL    (7)                60        20        30       10
Fellowships      No.
Teacher Training School
Administrators           (4)                24        12        12       -
National Supervisors    (3)                 24         -        12      12
Agricultural Teachers   (4)                 48        24        12      12
Veterinary              (20)               960       140       200     6201.!
TOTAL   (31)             1,056       176       236     644
I/ The fellowship program would continue until 1984, when all students
would have graduated from a four year training course. EDUCREDIT
would administer fellowship funds disbursed by IDA at the Credit
Closing Date, December 31, 1981.
December 15, 1977



r-,U7U
EL_.rF of E t1t88O Fre (tot 20.2.
CtsS '000
*a68  228.2  22c4.8        822          Sn*.        eOtc   *0102O A Sote   0*4.O   &L  ia ..2                 5.22c*80j                                                                                                  665          3.acdtaa           .St.afVtLF c_73
A.   Srr 0TI8                                                  33,72           _            _         76.659          277.2          _            2242 7.,2 _702                                             n           L 2 242 2  Sb  U,                                                65., e*.c                       _
--Ioe  802c.                                    20           ,80           -            -        21,760            8.2                           0.U            -                     20.0.          248.2          10.2.             -                                                            .-228.
tA---L 2ub                                      387        14,520                                41.793           147.3                       1.567,2                   . -         1.567.2          2208            72 0                              -                -
4      -  oeL..  20d82l2                       1312         4 080                      1-,106                      45.3                         48.,9                                 482.F                  20.7                     -                        -               -             -                        _076
(W -Ir Lll ctil..   S               0t f      ,)           l2730                                                                                                                                      U   .  .  -  -  134.0  6.       -                - 2 _
. 1I e      .    -                                                                                  _ .  -                                                                                                                                                              _ 40.0  20.2                                  -             16D.0
0610                                             -            -            .            -           -                                                          -                        -              -             2.U                              --                              68.0        89.0                -              m.0
D.  imsR       gmw  L1   ttr 2                                                            261                            -70. _    24.4               3.6                   1202.7        203.6            -                             0 _       0     10.         f 00s   _    _       .      7.7.
8t88I IktOa   or 40*02.22to                      1            240          -           10          L,926           28.7         04,5             83.6                     122.2       22M.2                                                                            -                                                            5 -7
24882.251^ 2.231a8oa                             -            -            -            -           -                 -           . .        .    -.                   L -t             -              -                            100.D             20.        . _      _  UO                                                      nO
*82808028  22.01f .rLt                                  -            -                  .           -                .                            .             -          -            -                              -                               -             40.               -            -                 - 600-         4L.2
C.                                                  J,,            222        60           52         J9,2I8 71.S                    iL5 254.9                    20.                      174.           20D0            50.0            102.                                                                                          2 _  _    3
.tte.  oodl of 088.trp                           U             222        60           2           1.385           21.8          2.06           L54.9         20.2          -          174.9          20.0           50.              -_                -                                                                            M I S -
7aL1o2 22.8.22.62.                               - .                       -a,n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       _             IO.D-  -  -  -  12.2  .  -   i
tl_   Ct                                                                                                               327.7         43.2                                                3.327.)          300.2          389.2           130.7             40.2           5 23 7  D       LO3 D            D 0.100                     5,701 .3
8h3.0.cat  CtL_ct8.4    18. 373)                                                                                   32.8          4.3                                                   322.8           50.0           38.9             -                - 9                                         D8.9             21.0           4n.,
l.a.      PI, M88824 2e ttI22 1 _2 cL                                                                                  360.5        4/                                                    36.4            842.           40.20                             54.20                          80.0         ILi               236 203.8
t2.l. L_ltUtL.a  (22.53)                                                                                            73.9        11.7                                                  924.1           185.0           32.5            40.5              6.5            64.8           17.2         14.5              47.4         1,.97,9
43L4          382                                                 -5t45            0360           4304            290.55                                          I4 _7_.4                                       j
PsAzi..   86      0w20                                                                                              68.2         27,7                                                1,32.4           1225.2         394.8           246.9             40.9           22.3             15.8         33,7              35.7         2,8053,
225                                                                                                    (220         230)                                                  (30)            (15)           (90)            (85)             (90)             (90)           (201)       20)                (30)           13PC
1880281282.880t2 208.. ,OnrOd apse. 052 28.628207 8002*28288,           828262*7 2204128..2
60h_trU1   I<b>3zG,   Of 387 20001  773 W022  0.2.884 f2.Ltgo.  .yJp..            d  -2,-2          f I                                                      f,    -      y1   -a.Jro-._ 1 *sr0bLop/ao.sh. 29 d.    ,* frr 0   f L52   22  ..aiOcry f0..,2.
A    ItW   t ob-1:tt,   o  h f 2317 hrszL . 98  tl   ee t    Le  t       t     *t .       r        b/   r, d .fr.tt .tf. It 
4.1  ..                   DLt    u.d    fe                    -L...-     8  .64f6t8   f.il1682. ..y_, eed 24 ilcl              00 3.--.-    .2  *         I,qul_   0.27
V                                                          -8noo.   8o  o3e   ao2    ..aoIaci .n262-   2222
I802828  2             . I   2021 2.   i  t01640 .2d, 10 88ff b222... 88  4 8C28".8  205.
4'  L824          L2t 220402022, L 22I20*7,  -d.ILo0   8.d _..        20f d-L-007 2212.
102c82 8o8ee 3a202* 2, 2273.
I  I.21.  0090.808 f08  *."p.t  of 880 .d rrD520-  261L., 22d 28)1,,O2 0 f0F di-02li1,, of  -.8t2k2           .
1 13. 1977



AMEX I
TABLE T-22
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Continaency Allowances
(US$ '000)
Construction        Prof.                                  School      Teacher Veterinarian                                    Pro ect
and Site Works       Servs.    Furniture    Euipmlent    Mapping    Training    TrainirA    Specialists   Fellowships  Administration                 Total
Base Costs                ,         3,370.6        327.7         590.0         369.0       60.0         89.0        400.0           250.0         40.0           210.0              5,706.3
Pkysical Contingencies                337.1         32.8          59.0          36,9         -           8,9            -              -            -             21.0                495.7
(Percentage)                        (10)          (10)          (10)          (10)       (._)        (10)         ( -)            ( -)         ( -)            ( 10)               (8.7).
Base Cost Plus Physical
contingencies                     3,707.7        360.5         649.0         405.9       60.0        97.9         400.0           250.0         40.0           231.0              6,202.0
Price COntitRaeucies                  915.8         73.9        185.0           32.5      17.0         14.5          64.8           40.5           6.5            47.4              1,397.9
(Percentage)                       (24.7)        (20.5)       (28.5)         (8.0)      (28@3)      (14.8)        (16.2)         (16.2)        (16.2)          (20.5)              (22.5)
jotal Continaencies                 1.252.9       1L2.7         244-0          69.4       1.0          23..A         64.8           40.5          6.5             68.4             L893.6
Total Protect Cost                  4,623.5       434.4         834.0         438.4       77.0        112.4         464.8          290.5         46.5            278.4              7.599,
1/ Expressed in prices estimated as of January 1, 1978.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-23
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IDA Financing Breakdown by Category of Expenditure
Category                             Amount (US$'000)      % Financing
I. (a)  Civil Works for Project Schools
under the Ministry of Education               2,120           64% of Total
(b) Civil Works (including architectural
consultants' fees) for MNR andi
COHDEFOR Project Schools                        380          64% of Total
II.  Furniture and Equipment                            1,000           100% of Foreign,
or 85% of Local
Etpenditures
III. School Mapping, Teacher Training,
Textbook Distribution                                160           100% of Total
IV. Veterinarian Training
(a)  Fellowships                                     260           75% of Total
(b)  Administration                                   40          100% of Total
V.  Technical Assistance & Fellowships                   240           100% of Foreign
11
Sub-Total-                             4,200
VI.  Unallocated-/                                        800
Total                                  5,000
/ Including base cost, 100% of physical and 10% of price
contingencies.
-/ Including 90% of price contingencies.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX I
TABLE T-24
,HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Years        1977         1978          1979           1980        1981
Activities                         Quarters   1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
Site Selection, Acquisition
and Surveying
(i)Rural Education Nuclei                              x  x  x  x
Educational and Architectural
Briefs and Designs
(i)Rural Education Nuclei                           x  x  x       x      x      x     x      x      x
(ii)National School of
Agriculture                                              x
(iii)National School of Forestry                                 x
Civil Works Tendering
(i)Rural Education Nuclei
(Labor contracts and
materials acquisition)                                        x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
(ii)National School of
Agriculture                                                 x
(iii)National School of Forestry                                    x
Construction
(i)Rural Education Nuclei                                            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
(ii)National School of
Agriculture                                                     x  x
(iii)National School of Forestry                                       x  x
Furniture Listing,
Specifications and Tendering
(i)Rural Education Nuclei                                  x  x  x
(ii)National School of Forestry                             x  x  x
Furniture Manufacture and Delivery
(i) Rural Education Nuclei                                           x      x      x      x      x      x
(ii) National School of Forestry                                       x  x
Equipment Listing,
Specifications and Tendering
(i)Rural Education Nuclei                                  x  x  x
(ii)National School of Forestry                             x  x  x
Equipment Manufacture and Delivery
(i)Rural Education Nuclei                                            x  x
(ii)National School of Forestry                                        x  x
School Mapping                                                            a  a  a  x  x  x
Teachers Traininpl/                                                    x      x      x      x      x     a      x
Textbooks Distribution                                                     x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  a  a  a
Technical Assistance and
Fellowshipst                                                            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x a  a  a
Project Administration                                       x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  a
1/ See Annex 20.
2/ See Annex 18.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
TABLE T-25
lHONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Accummulated       Undisbursed
Fisc.-l year     Semester     Disbursements       Disbursements        Balance 1/
1979            1                  600              600             4,400
2              1,100             1,700             3,300
1980            1                 750             2,450             2,550
2                 750            3,200             1,800
1981            1                 750             3,950             1,050
2                 750            4,700               300
1982            1                 300             5,000
1/ At the end of each semester.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 1
CHART C-1
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Formal and Non-Formal System of Education and Training, 1977
LABOR FORCE
GENERAL
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
]~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       M~~POESONALS
DROPOUT ROUTE                                                 I
Ir---  NSTITUTIONS INCLUDEDPRMY
[z| INSTITUTIONS INCLUDED                         ~~~~TEACHER TRAINING  I     HIGHER TECHNICAL
N PROPOSED PROJECT                                                                     -_
TECHNICAL FA  I
PRIMARY ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ SCETR
COMMERC                                                              TECHNICIANS
AG R I CU LTU R E    J'       .                           .AD
INDUSTRIAL      .                                    __
2~~5 3   4   5                                                                                                                .         011
COMMON CYCLE                U-PPE  CYCLE
A  tA.,;v of _I 1EDUCATION
l  TRAINiNG                 SKILLED
L- -   - -- - -- -                                                                                AND
VOCATIONAL                ISEMI SKILLED
I  I-_  l                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WORKERS
ARICULTUR   +  
vINDUS, IAL           1
, 111             ~~~~PRIMARY                                                                                                INFOP
!______________________________________________ ~WORKERS 
s lLS    ~1    2      3    4       5     6             7    8      9    10       10    11   12              1      2    3    4       5     6     7
1:7    8    9    t0   I11    12                   1 3   14   1S   !6        1G    17   18              19    20    21   22    23    24    25
PRIMARY EDUCATICN                              SECONDARY EDUCATION           _jHIGHER EDUCATION
LOVVER CYCLE              UPPER CYCL
, ,4 S't: M . stry ni Edcal oll                                                                                      Wortd Eank-78251R}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VVrl Ba'k782(R



ANNE1 I1
CHART C-2
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Education, 1977
r      -        -- -  - ------ - - - _ -            MINISTRY      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
|  UNESMOINISTRY1 4C                                                                                                         ONSLPLAN
UNIC                                                                    I                   |              | ffEDUCATION REfORM R
|UNICEF                                                                                                               1    COMMISSION
CHIEF                   LEGAL              OFFICE OF INTEGRATED    IDB PROJECTION            N
ADMINISTRATOR          ADVISER             EDUCATIONAL PLANNING    UNIT                      NATIONAL EDUCATIO
OAS     _ q                                                                     .                                  F _ ADVISORY COUNCIL
31J-'                   _                                                      TECHNICAL                   L        IBRD PROJECT
|   LISAID    t                    ADMINISTRAIV                                         TECHNIC EARY               16UNI
SUB-SECRETARY                          ~~~~~~~SUB-SECRETARY                 UI
CARE       J          GEEA                        ESNE  N                     RMR                       SECONDARY
ADMINISTRATION            TEACALER SALARY             SDUCTIO                    EDUCATION
I SCHOOL COINSTRUCTION |                   TECHNICAL              SECONDARY TEACHERD T
AND MAINTENANCE                             EDUCATION             TRAINING COLLEGE
[    PHYSICAL                   ADULT
EDUCATION                  EDUCATION
[     ART                   TECHNICAL SERVICES
EDUCATION              AND TEXT BOOKS
World Bank - 18021



ANNEX 1
CHART C-3
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments in Public and Private Institute, 1975
TOTAL ENROLLMENTS
GPOUP AGE       PARTICIPATION                                                                          HIGHER EDUCATION         11,8631/
GROSS %
19-24               4%                                                                                                          237
712
RURAL                                                          URBAN                       830
1,780
2,965
5,339
13 - 18             16%                                                                         SECONDARY EDUCATION          64,018
2,252
6,188
9,054
m1                                           110,983
13,769
21,772
7-12               90%                                                                            PRIMARY EDUCATION         459,925
'7777
11.703, 209                                              32,302
16,810 :24,133....,                                    40,943
g//// 25,23 7   2 *.55   **''53,292
X 38,391 .-32429                                          72,689
UR////X//,5,2 :-::.'-.. ....................... 94,361
10'9.974   56,3-4:: .*:*:                                 166,338
l     L    X    I     I                                 II               I     I    I     I                               
110  100   90   80   70   60   50   40   30   20   10    0    10   20   30   40   50   60   70   80   90   100  110
(in Thousandsl
1/ Estimated
L Net age group participation 78%
SOURCE: Ministry of Education                                                                            World Bank - 18082



ANNEX 2
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Reports Related to the Sector
A 1. Sintesis del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, Sector Educacion 1974-78
A. 2..Plan del Sector Educativo
A 3. Plan Operativo, 1976, Sector Educacion 1974-78
A 4. Plan Operatiro, 1976, Sector Agropecuario y Pesca
A 5. Leyes Educativas, 1973
A 6. Escuela Nacional de Agricultura - Introducci6n y Antecedentes
A 7. Proyecto Centro de Perfeccionamiento de Personal de S.R.N.
A 8. Proyecto Propuesto de Educacion Primaria y Media
A 9. Programa Nacional de Formacion de Recursos Humanos (Operaciones Agrlcolas).
A10. Plan Operativo 1976
A10. Boletin Informativo No. 4, 1976 - Direccion de Servicios Tecnicos
All. Programas de Adiestramiento de Recursos Humanos para la Salud 1976
A12. Ley de Servicio Civil y Sus Reglamentos 1976
A13. BoletUn Coordinaci6n Educativa Centroamericana 1976
A14. Compendio Estadlstico Educativo 1970-75, Primera Parte             -
A15. Informacion Basica Sobre Becas Prestamo para las Instituciones del COCO 1975-78
A16. Ley de la Proveeduria General de la Republica de Honduras , Decreto 40, 1958
A17. Manual de Construccio'n 1977
A18. USAID:       Rural Education Subsector Assessment 1976
A19. "            Nonformal Rural Education 1976
A20. UNESCO:      Higher Level Veterinary Education and Services 1977
A21. "            Coordinacion de la Educacion Tecnica y Profesional 1977
A22. World Bank: Education Sector Memorandum - February 7, 1977
A23. "     "     PREID Report - October 22, 1976
Reports Related to the Project
B 1. Proyecto de Educacion Agricola, 2a etapa
B 2. Programa de Becas para Estudio de Veterinaria en Universidades del Exterior
B 3. Cronograma de Actividades a Realizar en el Levantamiento del Mapa Escolar
B 4. Produccion Total de Textos, 1963-76 - 3 tables - 1977
B 5. Programa de Mejoramiento Escuelas de Aplicaci6n de las Normales Consolidadas
B 6. Programa Nacional de Educacion Extraescolar 1976 (+ Resumen)
B 7. Programa de Escuelas Rurales Piloto 1976
B 8. Universidad Nacional Autonomo de Honduras:  Estadisticas 1975
B 9. UNDP/FAO:   Escuela de Ciencias Forestales Project 1975 - Capacitacion Agrlcola
B10. World Bank: Identification Report - February 22, 1977
Bll. "     f     Reconnaissance and Preparation Report - April 6, 1977
B12. "           Social Equity Indices - 1977
Working Papers
C 1. Honduras II Education Project, Documento de Trabajo, Serie 1, 1977
C 2. World Bank: Project Brief and List of Project Schools - 1977
C 3. Documentos para la Implementacion del Segundo Proyecto de Educacion






IBRD- 13146
-       AAATEAUASS` s5AAANA TAA
SAAD  ISLAND
iOATAN ISLAND  SEA                                      Wds&.,kAIdft.MT--1Y~                4S      A>                     SE
{  A                                                                                   A                                                                                                                                                      At RALVAOOR~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARBBIAAll
PUERTO ASI$TE                                                                                                                    ATl~A
A         I                  (APR55~~M    DCORTE$ ~                                                                                                                                        ~                                                                                A5A
*  >3-     -                              TELA                                         9- -~~~~~~~~S-~~                       AURA- TO/EG
~~-5  ')  AT  sW5~~~         PNNC    $70560T           TA 01S
SPAS'    PRO- '75,0                                                                                                                                                      - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L L AA01 
DE :01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     L~~~L. E557
00,,                                                          I'EAsITp,    Sl                                                                                         016                                                                                                      N- 
00~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
rQ                                                                                            All IA .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIA  OF,~~~~~~~~~~E  A3ssA                                                   W    A      Y                  A,
'IA5STPPPQSE  LA,,  ASSESS                 DR        057 PRANCISA                                             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"   ~, ~   .                      A 
ATA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- MAA        Z                                                                                                 AAP5 
PAN . IQAE                                           SALND
W. nN~~~~~~~~ AT %                       E      ~--Ts                                                                   A                  A                M~t            Ot
W ,   ~~~~~~~~ - W .- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                   .    -,X,3~~~~~~~~~~~N P   -  s                                                           a        $ Lj               ,        l         A            t b
Z V_',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAA(AA 'AT 
~~'A CI~IC  OCEAN            NQAA                                          CEA    G SNASAGS_~A ~ { A 6P                                                                                                                   A-            A S    E A           L A
A    AE                                2       RDh                rU     "                       '                          ?jj               l6A POR                                \ JArR ' 



