Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2243-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
February 23, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = 2 Lempiras
L 1.00 = us$ 0.50
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AID          US Agency for International Development
CABEI       Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
COHDEFOR    Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development
CONSUPLANE  Higher Economic Planning Council
EDUCREDITO  Educational Credit Institute
ENA         National School of Agriculture
ENF         National School of Forestry
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
INFOP       National Institute for Vocational Training
MOE         Ministry of Education
MNR         Ministry of Natural Resources
SCD         School Construction Directorate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:           Republic of Honduras.
AMOUNT:             US$5.0 million equivalent.
TERMS:               Standard.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:      The project seeks to improve the quality and efficiency of
rural primary education by providing adequate school
facilities, organized under an improved nuclearization
system, appropriately trained teachers and administrators,
and relevant curricula and teaching materials. It will
also increase the supply of critically needed agricul-
tural, forestry and livestock professionals and techni-
cians. About 35,000 children, 10,000 overage students
and 15,000 out-of-school youths and adults would attend
project rural schools in 1982. The project would
contribute to making its beneficiaries more productive
participants in Honduras' economic development process.
Although unwillingness of qualified teachers and admin-
istrators to go to rural areas and delays due to community
participation in school construction are potential risks,
they are considered small in view of the project provisions
for increasing teacher salaries for double shift work and
for supervision of construction activities by the
Education Ministry's School Construction Directorate.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED COST:                                                 (US$ Millions)
Local  Foreign   Total
Rural Primary Education
Rural Primary Schools                 2.80    1.31    4.11
School Mapping                       0.05     0.01    0.06
Teacher Training and Textbooks        0.06    0.03    0.09
Technical Assistance                  0.02    0.14    0.16
Sub-total                         2.93     1.49    4.42
Agricultural Education
National School of Agriculture        0.19    0.07    0.26
National School of Forestry           0.17    0.11    0.28
Veterinary Training                   0.04    0.36    0.40
Technical Assistance                  0.02    0.11    0.13
Sub-total                         0.42     0.65    1.07
Prolect Administration                  0.17    0.04    0.21
Base Cost Estimate 1/             3.52     2.18    5.70
Contingencies
Physical                             0.34     0.16    0.50
Price                                0.94     0.46    1.40
Total                            -4.80      2.80    7.60
FINANCING PLAN:                                          (US$ Millions)
Local Foreign Total Percentage
IDA                        2.2     2.8      5.0       66
Government                 2.6       -      2.6       34
Total                 4.8     2.8     7.6       100
1/   At January 1978 prices.



- iii -
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                                    (US$ Millions)
IDA FY                1978    1979   1980    1981   1982
Annual                  .0     1.7    1.5     1.5    0.3
Cumulative              .0     1.7    3.2     4.7    5.0
RATE OF RETURN:      Not quantifiable.
STAFF APPRAISAL
REPORT:            1806a-HO, dated February 14, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of US$5.0 million to the Republic of
Honduras for a Second Education Project. The credit would be on standard
IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report-entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Honduras"
(1165-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 23, 1976.
An economic mission visited Honduras in June 1977 and is preparing an Updating
Economic Memorandum. The main findings of the mission are summarized below.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only 1 percent
a year and was estimated at US$390 in 1976, one of the lowest levels in the
Western Hemisphere. Although there is a dearth of precise, reliable statis-
tics, Honduras' poverty is evident from a variety of indicators. Malnutrition
is severe: about three-quarters of pre-school children are believed to suffer
from protein and caloric deficiencies, and infant mortality is estimated at
118 per thousand live births. It is estimated that roughly 60 percent of the
population has no access to piped water and about 80 percent lives without
any form of sanitary waste disposal. Furthermore, these are country averages
which conceal substantial regional disparities, as living conditions in the
rural areas, which account for about two-thirds of the population, are much
poorer than in the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance has been the
continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of a few
agricultural commodities, especially bananas, whose prices depend on a
fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly influenced
by domestic weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated when
extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in 1974
reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one-half the level of
1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3 percent.
5.        There are many reasons for the continued dominance of bananas in
the Honduran economy. Known mineral deposits are not extensive. A serious
lack of basic infrastructure and deficient development policies in the past
have left Honduras' agricultural resources underutilized. In addition,



-2-
the mountainous topography of the country has made the expansion of the road
network slow and costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, and
major achievements include the establishment of a basic transportation network
connecting the main population centers, and a considerable expansion of
electric power service.
6.        Much land suitable for agriculture is still available, and the
country has sizeable forest resources, but agricultural output only grew at
about 2 percent yearly between 1950 and 1975. Uneven land distribution and
deficient credit, technical services and development programs have kept
agricultural growth far below its potential. While reliable data on land
ownership are not available, a 1966 survey indicated that roughly half of
farmers owning or occupying farm units accounted for only about 6 percent of
the land in farms, and two-thirds of farm units had an average size of only
2.5 hectares. In addition, about one-third of rural families are landless.
7.        Industry, which is highly concentrated in the cities of San Pedro
Sula and Tegucigalpa, now accounts for about 16 percent of GDP and provides
employment to about 10 percent of the labor force. During the 1960s, the
manufacturing sector grew at a low annual rate (3.8 percent) owing to the
small size of the domestic market, the lack of infrastructure, and the in-
ability of domestic firms to take advantage of the opportunities offered by
the Central American Common Market. Manufacturing growth, however, almost
doubled in the 1970s (during 1970-76, real value added grew at an annual rate
of 7 percent) because of the increase in both domestic and foreign demand and
the consequent expansion and modernization of existing and new plants.
Government Development Efforts
8.        Since 1972, development efforts have increased substantially and
several measures have been taken to lay the basis for the current improved
economic outlook over the longer term. Temporary land reform measures intro-
duced in December 1972 were replaced in January 1975 by a comprehensive
Agrarian Reform Law. During 1973-76 about 45,000 families - 22 percent of
those eligible - received land under the land reform program. The reform aims
at greatly improving land utilization as well as increasing the income and
employment of the poorest peasants through the transfer of unutilized or
poorly utilized land from large landowners to landless rural families.
Another major policy development was the nationalization of timber rights in
January 1974. A new forestry law established guidelines for private sector
participation in forestry development and created the Corporacion Hondurena de
Desarrollo Forestal (COHDEFOR). COHDEFOR is in charge of all forest industry
policies and activities, and is expected to exploit forest resources more
rationally, increase lumber exports, and provide more employment for rural
Hondurans. The third major achievement was an improvement in Government
planning and executing capacity, particularly in infrastructure, which has
resulted in a substantial increase in public fixed investment from 3.3 percent
of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in 1974 and about 7.6 percent in 1976. The
Government has also made an effort to increase investment in the social



- 3 -
and productive sectors and strengthen public finances through tax reforms and
better tax administration. A 1975 tax reform made the tax on coffee exports
an ad-valorem tax with marginal rates ranging from 10 percent to 20 percent
depending on coffee prices, substituted a 3 percent value added tax for the
sales tax, and raised the tax rates on beer, cigarettes and liquor.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        While Honduras was adversely affected by one of the worst hurricanes
in its history in 1974, it had also to contend with the oil price rise of that
year and the later OECD recession. As a result, during 1974-75, total GDP
remained almost stagnant, severe balance of payments difficulties arose and
the country's savings capacity was seriously reduced. Import prices grew
almost three times as rapidly as export prices, and the terms of trade
deteriorated by about one-fifth. The resource gap, which was equal to about
1 percent of GDP during 1972-73, averaged 11.6 percent during 1974-75. The
rise in consumer prices, which had averaged 2.7 percent a year between 1966
and 1973, accelerated to 13 percent in 1974 before declining to 8 percent in
1975.
10.       A high level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production and the doubling of coffee export prices were the major factors
responsible for an improvement of the economic situation in 1976. Real GDP
grew at about 6 percent. Merchandise export earnings grew by about 31 percent
in current terms over 1975, about half of it as a result of higher coffee
prices. Government tax revenues increased from 10.8 percent of GDP in
1972-73 to 12.8 percent in 1976 and, while there was a substantial increase in
public current expenditures, public savings were estimated at about 3 percent
of GDP in 1976 compared to an average 1.2 percent in 1972-75. However, as
investment expenditures for hurricane reconstruction and development purposes
were stepped up considerably, the overall deficit of the Central Government
increased from 2.5 percent of GDP in 1970 to 4.9 percent in 1976.
11.       In 1977, economic expansion continued, with GDP growth estimated at
about 7 percent, due mainly to the expansion of export volumes (about 9 per-
cent) and of public investment (over 15 percent), and to continuing high
coffee prices. The balance of payments improved, with larger coffee and
banana export earnings reducing substantially the current account deficit and
adding significantly to foreign exchange reserves.
Growth Prospects
12.       The growth prospects for 1978-82 are good. Real GDP is expected
to increase at an annual rate of about 6 percent, barring natural disasters.
Real exports will grow at about 7.5 percent a year, reflecting continued
recovery of banana production from the September 1974 hurricane, increased
coffee production owing to higher yields and new plantings, expansion of sugar
production, an increase of lumber exports made possible by the currently
planned expansion of sawmill capacity, increased beef production, also the
result of an ongoing program, expansion of fruit and vegetable production for
export and promotion of tourism. Coffee prices, although declining from the
unusually high 1977 level, are expected to remain above the 1976 level for two



- 4 -
more years. In addition, the Government plans to accelerate economic growth
over the medium-term through an ambitious public investment program designed
to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to the country's development
process. The presently designed development strategy calls for large public
investments in infrastructure, in export diversification through forestry
development and tourism, and in agriculture to implement the agrarian reform
program and increase productivity.
13.       The expansion of the public sector's investment expenditures together
with the necessary increase of complementary current expenditures creates a
need for additional tax and tariff increases in the 1979-82 period as well as
for careful control of other current expenditures. The Government is develop-
ing a series of proposals to mobilize additional domestic resources in support
of its development program. However, given the present and foreseeable
poverty of the country, even with a greater revenue effort and current outlay
control, Honduras needs external assistance in excess of the foreign exchange
component of development projects suitable for international finance to enable
the Government to implement the public investment program.
14.       While real exports are expected to.increase at 7.5 percent a year
during 1978-82, Honduras' terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. As the
import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports related to the
investment program, the current account deficit is expected to increase to
US$200 million by 1981 and US$250 million in 1985, and large capital inflows
will be required. The bulk of the external financing requirements will have
to be met through public borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated total
gross capital inflow of US$900 million for the six-year period 1977-82, of
which about US$255 million will be disbursed from commitments made through the
end of 1976.
15.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to US$334.9 million at the end of 1976, US$580.6 million if undisbursed commit-
ments are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on con-
cessionary terms. It is important that the country continue to borrow on
reasonably soft average terms, in view of the country's poverty, the fact
that it will continue to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile
price prospects, and because, historically, natural disasters have sharply
reduced the volume of exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful
in obtaining about two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment
program on terms similar to those offered by the international lending
agencies, the debt service ratio is still likely to rise from about 6.6
percent in 1976 to about 13 percent by the mid-1980s.
16.       The Bank is Honduras' largest creditor, holding 20.1 percent of the
US$580.6 million external public debt oustanding--including undisbursed--
repayable in foreign currency, as of December 31, 1976. IDA holds an addi-
tional 9.1 percent of the total. Although IDB loans outstanding (disbursed
and undisbursed) total US$129.4 million, about 60 percent of this amount is



- 4 -
more years. In addition, the Government plans to accelerate economic growth
over the medium-term through an ambitious public investment program designed
to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to the country's development
process. The presently designed development strategy calls for large public
investments in infrastructure, in export diversification through forestry
development and tourism, and in agriculture to implement the agrarian reform
program and increase productivity.
13.       The expansion of the public sector's investment expenditures together
with the necessary increase of complementary current expenditures creates a
need for additional tax and tariff increases in the 1979-82 period as well as
for careful control of other current expenditures. The Government is develop-
ing a series of proposals to mobilize additional domestic resources in support
of its development program. However, given the present and foreseeable
poverty of the country, even with a greater revenue effort and current outlay
control, Honduras needs external assistance in excess of the foreign exchange
component of development projects suitable for international finance to enable
the Government to implement the public investment program.
14.       While real exports are expected to.increase at 7.5 percent a year
during 1978-82, Honduras' terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. As the
import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports related to the
investment program, the current account deficit is expected to increase to
US$200 million by 1981 and US$250 million in 1985, and large capital inflows
will be required. The bulk of the external financing requirements will have
to be met through public borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated total
gross capital inflow of US$900 million for the six-year period 1977-82, of
which about US$255 million will be disbursed from commitments made through the
end of 1976.
15.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to US$334.9 million at the end of 1976, US$580.6 million if undisbursed commit-
ments are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on con-
cessionary terms. It is important that the country continue to borrow on
reasonably soft average terms, in view of the country's poverty, the fact
that it will continue to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile
price prospects, and because, historically, natural disasters have sharply
reduced the volume of exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful
in obtaining about two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment
program on terms similar to those offered by the international lending
agencies, the debt service ratio is still likely to rise from about 6.6
percent in 1976 to about 13 percent by the mid-1980s.
16.       The Bank is Honduras' largest creditor, holding 20.1 percent of the
US$580.6 million external public debt oustanding--including undisbursed--
repayable in foreign currency, as of December 31, 1976. IDA holds an addi-
tional 9.1 percent of the total. Although IDB loans outstanding (disbursed
and undisbursed) total US$129.4 million, about 60 percent of this amount is



- 5 -
repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the public debt repayable
in foreign currency is only 9.0 percent. CABEI accounts for 18.8 percent of
the total, the U.S. Government for 19.1 percent, Venezuela for 7.0 percent and
privately-held debt for 8.6 percent.
17.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of lending by the principal external
agencies apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture and educa-
tion, IDB on transport, agriculture and forestry, health, education and
housing, and CABEI on transport, industry, power and housing. It is expected
that AID and CABEI will continue lending primarily in the same sectors in the
future, while IDB would concentrate mainly on agriculture, forestry, transport,
industry and power. The lending of the external agencies from 1950-1977 was
as follows:
IBRD     IDA     AID      IDB    CABEI    TOTAL
Total Gross Lending 1950-1977     177.5    53.2     113.4   294.7   199.2    838.0
Gross Lending 1950-1965            25.9    12.5      26.7    27.2     8.1    100.4
Gross Lending 1966-1977           151.6    40.7      86.7   267.5   191.1    737.6
Sectoral Lending 1966-1977
Transport                        88.3     5.0         -    32.1    74.7    200.1
Power                            60.3     9.5        -        -    20.9     90.7
Telecommunications                  -       -         -    14.7    10.1     24.8
Education                         3.0     3.0      10.5    17.4       -     33.9
Health                              -       -       2.6    33.2    10.2     46.0
Housing                             -       -       5.0    12.5    16.5     34.0
Agriculture and Forestry            -    23.2      48.5   155.4     4.1    231.2
Industry                            -       -      5.0      2.2    33.2     40.4
Other                               -       -      15.1       -    21.4     36.5
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
18.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received sixteen Bank loans totalling US$177.2 million and nine
IDA credits totalling US$52.6 million, both net of cancellations. As of
December 31, 1977, a total of US$89.0 million remained to be disbursed on
eleven operations for ports, electricity, roads, livestock, education and
agricutural credit. The proposed credit would raise the total of Bank Group
assistance from US$229.8 million to US$234.8 million. Execution of projects
financed by the Bank Group has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31,
1977, and IFC investments as of January 31, 1978, as well as notes on the
execution of on-going projects.
19.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of



the country.  The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, there have been operations for a Second Livestock project; a First
Education project, which included as major components primary and secondary
teacher training schools, support for the national agricultural secondary school
and vocational training centers; and a First Agricultural Credit project to
finance livestock and crop development with emphasis on assisting agrarian
reform settlements through investment credits and a substantial technical
assistance program.
20.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities of
the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to investment
in the productive sectors and in education, while continuing to lend for
physical infrastructure where there are still deficiencies to be overcome.
A Rural Development Project for the Guayape Valley, which will help support
the agrarian reform program in that area, has recently been appraised.
A follow-on to the First Agricultural Credit Project and additional rural
development projects, now being identified, are also being planned. Bank
Group support is also being considered for COHDEFOR's pulp and paper project,
as well as for the development of Honduras' tourism potential. The proposed
Second Education Project described in Section IV is designed to support the
Government's education and training program in rural primary education and
agricultural and forestry training, and includes support for a school mapping
exercise to determine priority areas for inclusion in a future project for the
expansion and improvement of rural education. In transport, we plan to place
emphasis on assisting the construction of a network of feeder and access roads
to support the Government's agricultural program. We also hope to help
finance power development, including participation in an interim project
designed to meet electric power requirements until the large (US$400 million)
El Cajon hydroelectric project comes on stream in the mid-1980s. The latter
project, which has been identified as the most economic means of meeting
Honduras' long-term demand for power, would generate excess energy for sale to
neighboring countries in the early years of its operation and thus would
represent an important step in Central American power interconnection. It is
expected that the Bank, IDB and CABEI will contribute to the El Cajon effort,
and the Bank has been helping Honduras contact bilateral sources to seek
additional concessional financing.
21.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will drop from 29.2 percent in 1976 to 26.4
percent by 1981 because of increasing lending by other external agencies and
commercial borrowing. The Bank Group share of debt service in 1976 was 24.6
percent and is projected at about 25.3 percent by 1981.
22.       Until recently, IFC's activities in Honduras included a 1964 loan and
a share subscription, of US$295,000 and US$82,500 respectively, in a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. (ECCASA); and a US$75,000 share
subscription in a pilot promotional company, Compania Pino Celulosa de Centro
America (COPINO) in 1969. COPINO was established to develop an industrial
project based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve, but a series of



-7-
obstacles to project development arose and efforts to go forward with it were
virtually halted in 1971. While current plans for the Olancho forest indus-
tries project do not include a role for COPINO, the IFC is assisting the
Government in creating an organizational structure for the project and select-
ing a technical partner. In December 1977 the Board approved a US$9.0 million
loan, and up to US$1.0 million equivalent equity investment, for Textiles Rio
Lindo, S.A. de C.V. for plant expansion aimed at almost doubling its production
capacity.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Educational Implications of the Country's Development Strategy
23.       Agriculture (including forestry) is the mainstay of the Honduran
economy, but its productivity has been relatively low, largely due to tradi-
tional farm practices, inefficient land use and tenure patterns, recurrent
pests and animal diseases. The Government's development strategy emphasizes
improved rural productivity and income distribution through agrarian reform
and accelerated public investment in agriculture, and export diversification
through forestry development. Attainment of these goals entails, inter alia,
improving the basic education and training profile of the rural population and
expanding the supply of highly qualified agricultural and forestry personnel.
Educational institutions need strengthening to meet these demands. The
average educational level of the labor force is especially low in the agri-
cultural sector. In 1974, some 47 percent of the population was illiterate;
52 percent of agricultural workers had no formal education and 27 percent
had fewer than three years' primary schooling. Although a variety of public
and private agencies have initiated training programs in the agriculture-
forestry field, their effectiveness has been constrained by the participants'
lack of basic preparation, thus accentuating the importance of improving the
coverage, quality and relevance of primary education linked to rural develop-
ment needs. Given intensified Government emphasis on rural development, the
demand for trained manpower in agriculture, animal husbandry and forestry,
particularly at the technician level, has increased markedly and shortages have
become acute. It is estimated that by 1990 the stock of agricultural and
forestry professionals and technicians will have to be almost tripled.
Overview of the Education Sector
24.       The formal education system in Honduras consists of one to three
years of preprimary, six years of primary, six years of secondary and three to
six years of higher education. The Ministry of Education (MOE) administers
most of the formal system up to university level, and the Ministry of Natural
Resources (MNR) is involved with agricultural education through its adminis-
tration of the National School of Agriculture (ENA). The National Institute
for Vocational Training (INFOP) provides apprenticeship, accelerated and in-
plant training for skilled and semi-skilled workers in industrial, agricul-
tural and service occupations; and several Government and private agencies
carry out relatively small nonformal training programs for youths and adults.
Higher education is provided at the autonomous National University, the
Secondary Teacher Training School in Tegucigalpa, the private regional Pan-
American Agricultural School at Zamorano, and the National School of Forestry
(ENF) administered by COHDEFOR.



- 8 -
25.       Honduras' formal education and training system suffers from quali-
tative deficiencies and structural imbalances. Opportunities are limited
in rural areas at all levels and for all types of training. While 54 percent
of children in urban areas complete the full six-year primary course, only 16
percent do so in rural areas. This imbalance can be attributed to the long
walking distances to rural schools, many of which are incomplete (fewer than
six grades), the low professional qualifications of teachers and school
directors in these areas, the lack of teaching materials and the inappro-
priateness of the curricula to rural needs. Rural children also have very
limited access to secondary schools, since primary school completion rates are
low, secondary schools are concentrated in large urban areas, and free edu-
cation is provided in only 25 percent of the secondary schools in the country.
To date, most secondary education is either semi-public with school fees (50
percent) or private (25 percent).
26.       Despite these imbalances, data indicate that there is no sex
discrimination in Honduran education. Enrollment in primary education is
approximately equal to sex ratios (female 49 percent, male 51 percent), the
majority of primary teaching staff is female, and women hold numerous high
positions in public administration.
27.       As noted in paragraph 8 above, total public investment has increased
substantially as a percentage of GDP in recent years. Therefore, while the
share of the education sector in total public expenditures has declined from
18 percent in 1972 to 15 percent in 1976, public and private educational ex-
penditures increased from 4.6 percent of GDP in 1972 to a comparatively high
5.3 percent in 1976. Also, while education's share of recurrent expenditures
declined somewhat over the same period, these expenditures grew significantly
in absolute terms. Despite these substantial allocations, however, there is
a need for improved efficiency in the use of resources in order to achieve
plans for improving rural primary education, expanding nonformal education
and training to out-of-school youths and adults, and increasing the supply
of trained manpower for the agricultural sector.
Government Priorities and Programs
28.       In its 1974-78 Education Plan, the Government aimed at providing
more equal access to the education system and linking it more closely to the
needs of the economy. It identified the improvement of rural primary edu-
cation as its major priority, and included among other objectives the expan-
sion of public secondary education and nonformal training, and the improvement
and expansion of technical and higher education. Since adoption of the
Plan, advances have been made in the expansion of primary, vocational and
technical education, the revision of secondary curricula and the improvement
of teacher and farmer training programs. Bilateral and multilateral agencies
have been extensively involved in these efforts. AID has assisted primary
education through its lending for school reconstruction in Atlantic coastal
areas and for equipment and materials to support a curriculum materials
production center, and UNICEF has provided some basic materials and equipment
for rural schools. AID and UNESCO also are providing grant funds to help
reorient, improve and coordinate on-going nonformal education programs being
undertaken by the MOE, church groups and other organizations. Vocational,
technical and agricultural training have received financial and technical



- 9 -
assistance from IDB, which has also helped establish a student loan fund for
local and foreign study at the higher and technical education levels. Technical
training has also received assistance from Germany through the provision of
specialist services and equipment for an industrial center. The Bank Group,
through the 1974 First Education Loan (954-HO) and Credit (452-H0), discussed
in paragraph 33 below, has financed improvements to ENA and construction of
industrial and agricultural vocational centers. (ILO has also provided
technical assistance for the industrial centers.) The first Bank Group
project also has strengthened primary and secondary teacher training programs
through construction of training and application schools and provision of
technical assistance. In addition, UNESCO is providing some technical
assistance in secondary education and teacher training.
29.       Quality improvement of both primary and secondary education, how-
ever, has lagged especially in terms of administration and supervision, in-
service teacher training, and the provision of equipment and teaching
materials. Also much remains to be done to extend educational opportunities
both at the primary and secondary level in the rural areas.   The forthcoming
1979-84 Education Plan is expected to place emphasis on the improvement and
expansion of rural primary education and training of agricultural and forestry
technicians, areas meriting high priority attention. It is also urgent, however,
that the Government address adequately the needs of secondary education, and,
while secondary education will benefit from the Bank Group's first project and
UNESCO technical assistance, further improvements will depend on the Govern-
ment's assigning high priority to this level of education, particularly
in rural areas. (The Bank Group, through its continuing dialogue with the
Government, will stress the need for a more active public sector role in
rural secondary education, and for the development of projects in this field
which the Bank Group might support in a future loan.)
30.       As far as quality improvements at the rural primary level are
concerned, an important element of the Honduran program is the nuclearization
concept, a school location and administration system which links primary
schools at the local level, provides maximum school access to children and
integrates the schools into the community. Honduras has been experimenting
with this system since 1973. Seventy-two "pilot" nuclei schools have met
with mixed success since careful study of each local situation was not done,
appropriate training was not provided to teachers and directors, and adminis-
trative procedures were not clearly defined. The Government is presently
developing policies to correct these deficiencies and refine the nucleariza-
tion concept under the proposed Second Education Project. In this system
each nucleus would serve 1,000 to 1,400 students, taught by 15 to 20 teachers
on a double shift basis. A "central" six-grade school would be linked to a
number of neighboring "subcentral" (six-grade) or "associated" (four-grade)
schools. Each nucleus would constitute a technical and administrative unit:
the central school would offer both formal primary education for school age
children as well as accelerated primary education (three years equivalent to
the six years of the formal system) for overage students, and literacy and non-
formal training courses (agriculture, health, community development, home
economics, etc.) for out-of-school youths and adults; the subcentral schools
would provide the full six grades of primary education to communities 10 to 15
kilometers distant from the central school; and associated schools would
provide the first four grades of primary education to small communities
located within 3 kilometers of a central or subcentral school where students
might attend the fifth and sixth grades.



- 10 -
31.       Besides classrooms, each central school would have facilities
for teaching science and practical subjects, a school library and an adminis-
tration area; subcentral and associated schools would have a workshop and
storage area; and all schools would have covered areas for community activi-
ties. The double shift system would help ensure maximum utilization of
physical space. Also, teachers would be allowed to work both shifts, which
entitles them to additional remuneration above their normal salary.    This
financial incentive would help assure that competent teachers would be avail-
able in adequate numbers for the rural schools. Multigrade teaching techniques
would also be widely used. While the implementation of double shift work and
multigrade teaching techniques would make more efficient use of teachers, it
should be noted that student/teacher ratios would actually decrease, with the
number of pupils per teacher dropping from 40-42 to about 35 per shift. Some
central school teachers would receive specialized training in practical subjects
such as agriculture, health, home economics, etc., in order to supervise other
teachers in these areas and organize community activities. The director of the
central school would have no teaching responsibilities, but would supervise
teaching activities in the nucleus and serve as liaison between the community
and non-formal training agencies using school facilities. This improved
nuclearization system would be implemented first in the western, southern and
southeastern regions of the country, with priority being given to areas where
agrarian reform programs are already in progress. A school mapping survey was
conducted in these regions to determine where the need to expand and improve
education opportunities was most acute.
32.       With regard to agricultural education, since 1974 the Government has
been implementing projects to improve and expand the programs at the MOE's lower
secondary John F. Kennedy Agricultural School (with IDB financing) and the MNR's
upper secondary ENA (with Bank Group financing). It has been found, however,
that graduates of the Kennedy School have not been easily absorbed into the
labor market, since graduates are too young, and their skills must always be
supplemented with substantial on-the-job training. In view of this and the
increased need for manpower at higher levels in the agricultural sector to
implement national agricultural development programs, the Government has up-
graded the Kennedy School to upper secondary level, and is taking the necessary
steps to officially upgrade ENA to post secondary level, including the
initiation of courses in animal husbandry. Students will be able to feed
into the upgraded Kennedy School from lower secondary schools in the system,
and the existing lower secondary cycle at Kennedy will therefore be gradually
phased out. The Government also plans to expand ENF and initiate a forest
industry course to meet the demand for this type of technician now that Honduras
is beginning to commercialize its forest resources.
Bank Group's Role in Education and Training
33.       The First Bank Group Education Project was designed to help develop
more effective systems for training primary and secondary teachers, agricul-
tural technicians, farmers, and skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers
through construction, equipping and furnishing of primary teacher training and
application schools, a secondary teacher training college and application



- 11 -
school, on industrial training development center,two industrial and three
agricultural vocational centers; expansion of ENA; and provision of related
technical assistance and fellowships. Project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, and all work is expected to be substantially completed by the
original closing date of June 30, 1978. A slight extension of the date may be
needed mainly to permit completion of disbursements for technical assistance
and fellowships. All primary and secondary teacher training facilities are in
operation except for one teacher training college and three related primary
application schools which should be completed by the closing date or soon
thereafter. The industrial and vocational centers are expected to be finished
by mid-1978. The agricultural training centers are ready to begin courses for
small farmers and their wives, and the ENA extensions are nearing completion.
The technical assistance and fellowship allocations under the project have not
yet been fully utilized, due to delays in selecting and approving candidates,
but action has been initiated to accelerate the commitment of these funds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Second Education Project,
Honduras" (No. 1806a-HO, dated February 14, 1978) is being distributed
separately. The project was prepared by the Government with assistance from
IDA in March/April 1977, and was appraised in July/August 1977. Negotiations
were held in Washington on February 1-3, 1978. The Honduras delegation was led
by Mrs. Lydia Williams de Arias, Minister of Education.
Oblectives and Composition
35.       The proposed Second Education Project is designed to support the
government's rural education and training development strategy by:    (a)
improving the quality and efficiency of rural primary education through the
provision of adequate school facilities, in the context of an improved school
nuclearization system supported by appropriately trained teachers and adminis-
trators and relevant curricula and learning materials; and (b) increasing the
supply of agricultural and forestry professionals and technicians through
expansion and improvement of two existing training institutions (ENA and ENF)
and through financing of training abroad for professional veterinarians.
Specifically, the proposed project would comprise:
36.       (a)  Rural Primary Education Nuclei.   This project element would
help establish 40 rural primary education nuclei (discussed in paragraphs 30
and 31 above), comprising 131 associated, 387 subcentral and 40 central
schools. A total of 545 classrooms would be constructed, equipped and fur-
nished, with an additional 308 to be equipped and furnished only. In 1982,
with all project facilities in full operation, about 35,000 school-age
students in the project area (equivalent to 89 percent of the 7-12 year age
group) would be enrolled in primary education, as well as about 10,000 overage
students (some one-half of whom would attend accelerated courses). In
addition, some 15,000 out-of-school youths and adults would receive literacy
and non-formal training courses. It has been agreed that the Government would,
no later than April 1, 1979, take all necessary action, including the issuance



- 12 -
of regulations, to organize and administer these nuclei in a manner satis-
factory to the Association, and in accordance with the principles described in
paragraphs 30 and 31 above (Section 3.06(a) of Credit Agreement). Given the
pivotal role of the director of each nucleus it was also agreed that suitably
qualified persons would be selected for these positions and classified as
equivalent to the Assistant Supervisors already working in the system (Section
3.06(b) of Credit Agreement). To attract and retain competent teachers for
project schools,. it was agreed that, where applicable, rural teachers would be
permitted to work two shifts, with appropriate remuneration (Section 3.06(c) of
Credit Agreement). Although the amount of this remuneration can vary depend-
ing on local factors, it is expected to be about 160 percent of a regular
salary.
37.       (b)  Primary Education Curriculum.   Although the curriculum for
formal primary education is satisfactory, efforts are underway to revise
syllabi to reflect the social, economic and geographic conditions of rural
areas. Also, the present four year curriculum for accelerated primary edu-
cation needs to be reduced to three years. The project would provide tech-
nical assistance (12 man/months) to the MOE's Education Reform Commission for
these revisions.
38.       (c) In-Service Training.   The project includes a comprehensive
upgrading program for about 1,000 teachers, nuclei directors, national super-
visors and staff of primary teacher training schools, with special emphasis on
providing a better understanding of the objectives and content of the revised
curriculum being prepared by the Education Reform Commission, including
multigrade teaching techniques and the use of textbooks, equipment and other
teaching aids. The upgrading would be implemented during vacation periods in
the four teacher training schools constructed or remodeled under the First
Education Project. A satisfactory implementation schedule for these courses
has been prepared by the Government. Given the particular importance of the
courses in multigrade teaching techniques, which are new, it was agreed that
they would be initiated no later than December 1, 1978 (Section 3.07(a) of
Credit Agreement). The project also includes fellowships (48 man/months),
to supplement funds provided under the first project, for primary teacher
training school administrators and national primary education supervisors.
39.       (d)  Educational Materials Distribution.   The Government regularly
prints textbooks which are provided free of charge at the primary level, but
the distribution system is poor. Therefore, the project, which will provide
basic elementary science and mathematics equipment, maps, charts, and tools
for agricultural and industrial arts, would also include technical assistance
(6 man/months) and a vehicle to improve the distribution of teaching materials.
40.       (e)  School Mapping.   As part of the proposed project, a nationwide
school mapping program would be undertaken with a view to eventual expansion
of the nuclearization system throughout Honduras. Twelve man/months of
specialist services are included to assist with this program. It was agreed
that draft terms of reference and a schedule for completing the school mapping
would be made available for the Association to review no later than January 1,
1979 (Section 3.07(b) of Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
41.       (f)  Evaluation.  The programs implemented under the rural primary
education component of the project would be evaluated continuously with a view
to their future expansion throughout all rural areas. The project includes
technical assistance (4 man/months) to aid in the establishment of a system
for this evaluation, which would be directed by the Project Unit educator in
coordination with relevant offices of the MOE. It was agreed that the Govern-
ment would establish an evaluation system acceptable to the Association no
later than July 1, 1979 (Section 3.07(c) of Credit Agreement).
42.       (g)  National School of Agriculture (ENA). Catacamas.   The project
would assist the Government in upgrading ENA from an upper secondary to a post
secondary level institution, in order to train higher level technicians in
agricultural and animal husbandry. Since the existing school is being re-
modeled and expanded under the First Education Project, only minor additional
extensions are needed, including construction of 2 laboratories, a milking
shed, a workshop for processing farm products, 10 staff houses and 4 storage
rooms. Based on the Government's decision to upgrade ENA to post secondary
level, upper secondary courses have been gradually phased out since 1975. ENA
is currently preparing for the start of post secondary courses in 1978.
Specialist services provided under the First Education Project have been
engaged in preparing a new curriculum and determining the new facilities
needed for the reorganization of ENA, and additional specialist services
(24 man/months) are provided under the proposed project to continue this
effort, especially to help organize the new animal husbandry courses. A more
attractive staff salary scale is being established at ENA, and many of the
staff are being replaced by personnel with higher qualifications. Fellowships
(48 man/months) have been allotted under the project for about 4 teachers
estimated to require additional studies. The issuance of a Ministerial decree
officially authorizing the ENA upgrading, and the establishment of an Advisory
Board to help assure that ENA curricula are related to the needs of employers
in Honduras would be conditions of disbursement for this project item (Para. 4(b)
of Schedule 1 to Credit Agreement). (Total IDA disbursements for this item, in-
cluding contingencies, would be US$364,000.)
43.       (h)  National School of Forestry (ENF),. Siguatepegue.  ENF's facili-
ties would be expanded and upgraded, and a new forest industry technician
course would be established. New laboratories and a library would be con-
structed, and dormitory capacity would be expanded through modest additions
to, and better space utilization of, existing dormitory blocks. Additional
equipment and furniture would also be provided. In order to help reduce a
high dropout rate at the school, specialist services (2 man/months) would be
provided to assist in establishing criteria and regulations for the selection
of students. ENF's staff and curricula are satisfactory, except that the new
course for training forest industry technicians would require specialized
equipment and substantial technical assistance, both of which the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) has agreed in principle to finance.
Receipt of the signed agreement with CIDA, or satisfactory evidence of alter-
native financing for the necessary equipment and technical assistance, would
be a disbursement condition for this project item (Para. 4(c) of Schedule 1 to
Credit Agreement). (Total Bank disbursements for this item, including contin-
gencies, would be US$276,000.)



- 14 -
44.       (i)  Training of Professional Veterinarians.   Fellowships would be
provided for studies abroad by 20 Honduran students in four year university
level veterinary science programs. Existing student aid programs do not offer
adequate fellowships for this purpose. The program would be administered by
EDUCREDITO, a decentralized public agency with extensive experience in handling
fellowships abroad. A committee to be appointed by the MNR would select
candidates from among students who had successfully completed a minimum
of one year of general studies at the National'University. Students would
repay the loan financed by IDA through service to the MNR or an institution
designated by it, and students who fail to complete the training course or who
do not comply fully with the service requirement would be liable for reim-
bursement of total expenditures incurred during training. A draft contract
between the MNR and EDUCREDITO setting forth the financial conditions and
regulations governing EDUCREDITO's administration of the fellowship program has
been prepared. Receipt by the Association of an acceptable signed contract
and of satisfactory evidence that the committee for the selection of fellow-
ship candidates has been established would be disbursement conditions for this
project item (Para. 4(d) of Schedule I to Credit Agreement). (Total Bank dis-
bursements for this item, including contingencies, would be US$349,000.)
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$7.6 million,
including physical contingencies of US$0.5 million and price contingencies of
US$1.4 million. The average cost of technical assistance (totalling 5 man/
years of specialist services and 88 man/years of fellowships) is estimated at
US$50,000 per man/year for specialist services, US$5,000 per man/year for
veterinary fellowships and US$10,000 per man/year for non-veterinary fellow-
ships. The proposed credit of US$5.0 million, equivalent to 66 percent of the
total project cost, would finance the full foreign exchange component of US$2.8
million and US$2.2 million, or 46 percent, of local costs. The balance of
project costs would be borne by the Government. The proposed local cost
financing by IDA is justified in view of the low foreign cost component of
the project and for the reasons stated in paragraph 13 above. The detailed
breakdown of project costs and their proposed financing are contained in
the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report.
Recurrent Costs
46.       The recurrent costs generated by the project would be well within
the capacity of the Central Government to finance. The rural education compo-
nent would generate about US$1.3 million (1977 prices) additional recurrent
expenditures per year by 1985, when the schools would be in full operation,
representing an increase of 3 percent over the MOE's 1977 recurrent budget.
As the result of two offsetting trends - improved efficiency in the
utilization of staff and increased resources needed for supervision, school
supplies and maintenance - recurrent costs per student in the project area
would be slightly reduced. The agricultural education component would raise
recurrent expenditures by about US$0.5 million annually by 1980, equivalent to
1.7 percent of the 1977 recurrent budget of the relevant public agencies.
About 45 percent of the projected increase for ENA is expected to be met from
increased revenues from the school farm. The absorption of the projected



- 15 -
output of agricultural and forestry technicians from project and nonproject
schools for the 1977-87 period would require an expansion of staff positions,
representing an average annual increase of less than 1 percent in the re-
current budget of the four main public employers (expected to absorb about
75 percent of the projected supply).
Project Implementation and Procurement
47.       The project would be implemented over a period of four years.
Construction and procurement and installation of furniture and equipment would
be completed by about mid-1981. A Project Unit established under CONSUPLANE to
administer the First Education Project would be responsible for coordinating
implementation of the second project and for liaison with the relevant
ministries/agencies. This Project Unit has the experience and authority
necessary to carry out its tasks, and presently comprises a director, an
engineer, a procurement specialist and an accountant; it would be strengthened
by the inclusion of an educator acceptable to the Association, whose appoint-
ment would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section
5.01(a) of Credit Agreement). The MNR and COHDEFOR would each appoint a
high level officer acceptable to the Association responsible for the imple-
mentation of its project items and for liaison with the Project Unit; these
appointments would also be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 5.01(b) of Credit Agreement). The School Construction Directorate
(SCD) of the MOE would be responsible for the physical implementation of the
rural primary education component. It would, inter alia, be responsible for:
(a) preparing architectural briefs and designs (on the basis of already
discussed and agreed prototypes); (b) preparing furniture and equipment lists
and bid documents; (c) organizing support from the communities for rural
school construction activities; and (d) supervising civil works. For these
purposes the SCD would be strengthened by one manager-engineer, two supervisor
engineers, one administrator, one accountant, two social promoters and support
staff.  It was agreed that appointment of the key personnel (all except support
staff) acceptable to the Association would be made no later than September 15,
1978 (Section 3.08(a) of Credit Agreement).
48.       Foreign contractors are unlikely to be interested in bidding for
civil works under the rural schools component because of the scattered and
remote locations of the schools and the small contract size, which may
vary from about US$3,000 for a one classroom school to about US$80,000 for a
complete nucleus. The SCD has considerable experience in rural school
construction and would carry out the civil works program on a labor contract
basis, with essential building materials supplied by the Government and by
contribution of local communities (e.g., sand, gravel and stone), and with
lump sum contracts being signed whenever possible. For the purposes of
ensuring quality control of construction, about 40 labor contractors would be
selected and trained by staff of SCD and INFOP in a one to two week course on
the construction procedures and methods established for modular rural primary
schools. SCD would maintain separate accounts for each school or nucleus and
would make semi-monthly payments to contractors in accordance with the quan-
tity of work completed. Most of the building materials (which total US$2.9
million without contingencies) would be procured, in bulk whenever possible
(cement, steel, asbestos, etc.), in accordance with local procedures which



- 16 -
have been found satisfactory by the Association. In view of the many small,
diverse expenditures under the primary school component, it was agreed that
the Government would make a revolving fund of no less than US$100,000 avail-
able to the SCD no later than September 1, 1978 (Section 3.01(b) of Credit
Agreement).
49.       Construction contracts for extensions to ENA and ENF would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures which have been found satisfactory to the Association.
Because of the small size of the contracts involved (US$200,000-250,000),
foreign contractors are not expected to participate in bidding, although they
would not be precluded from doing so. Construction supervision would be
carried out by the architectural firm responsible for designs, expected to be
the same firm employed for the ENA component of the first project.
50.       Contracts for furniture and equipment for the project institutions
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines. Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
into packages for bulk procurement of at least US$50,000, not exceeding
in the aggregate US$190,000 (equivalent to about 15 percent of the estimated
total cost of furniture and equipment), would be procured in accordance with
local procedures which have been found satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursements
51.       Disbursements would be for 64 percent of civil works and architec-
tural services; 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 85 percent of local
expenditures for furniture and equipment; 75 percent of total expenditures
for veterinary fellowships (the remaining 25 percent to be financed by
EDUCREDITO's own resources), plus 100 percent of total expenditures for the
administration fee to EDUCREDITO; 100 percent of total expenditures for school
mapping, teacher training and textbook distribution; and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for technical assistance and other fellowships. Retroactive
financing not exceeding US$30,000 would cover expenditures incurred after
July 1, 1977 in respect of architectural services for designing the extension
of ENF and for construction of ENF's dormitories.
Risks
52.       No major risks are foreseen, especially in view of the competence of
the Project Unit, the provisions for monitoring and evaluation, and the Govern-
ment's commitment to an improved nuclear school system. There would be a
shortage of qualified teachers and administrators if the conditions of service
were not improved, but the assurances described in paragraph 36 above are
considered adequate to substantially reduce this possibility. The risk of
delays in project execution and higher investment costs if school construction
based on community participation were not carefully supervised is considered
minimal given the proposed staffing of the SCD as set forth in paragraph 47
above and the implementation procedures described in paragraph 48.
Justification
53.       This project will contribute significantly-to supporting Government
efforts to increase the coverage of basic primary education in rural areas
and train critical middle and higher level agricultural and forestry manpower.



- 17 -
In addition, significant improvements in quality and efficiency will be
derived from the introduction of an improved system of school organization and
administration, the provision of more facilities for accelerated and literacy
courses, greater emphasis on curricula oriented toward rural life, better
training of teachers, directors and supervisors, and the timely provision of
textbooks and other materials.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Credit Agreement
conforms to the normal pattern of credits for education projects and its more
important features have been included in Part IV and summarized in Section III
of Annex III of this report. There are two special conditions of effective-
ness of the Credit Agreement: (i) that a full-time educator has been employed
within the Project Unit; and (ii) that liason officers for MNR and CORDEFOR
have been designated. Conditions to disbursement for the ENA project item will
be the establishment of an Advisory Board and the official upgrading of ENA to
post secondary level; for the ENF component, evidence of adequate financing
for complementary equipment and technical assistance; and for veterinary fellow-
ships, the signing of a contract between MNR and EDUCREDITO and the establish-
ment of a committee to select candidates.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
February 23, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS           - SDCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (;HOU KM2)               -
_ _    __  ___ ----MHONDURAS                                                    REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL      112.1                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      28.7                     1990       to?3   ESTIMATE         PARAGUAY      DOMINICAN RE  COSTA RICA**A
__ __ _- _ __ __ _ __ __ _ ___       -- - ------------
GNP PER CAPITA LUSS)                   170.0*    250.0k    390.0*/a          300.0*     380.0*     580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           t.9      2.5        3.0/a             2.2        4.1        1.7
POPULAl .ON DENSITY
PER SQUARE KN.                      17.0     22.0      27.0/a              6.0       83.0       34.0
P'R SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      69,0       89.0    104.07i             g4.0      174.0       93.0
VttAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BLRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)       54.0       5t.5      49.3              41.8       47.3       41.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)        26.5       19.1      14 6              10         $3,4        S
INFANT MORTALITY RATE  /TpOU)       *.        .-      ii8a/b             g3.8      103.0       62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH [YRS)     41.0      49.4       53.5              59.0       52.2       66.8
GRoSS REPRODUCTION RATE               *-       3.4       3.3               3.2        3.5        2.8
POPULATION (,ROwTH RAIL (K)
IOTtL                               3,0       2.7**     2.7**              2.5/a      2-9/a      3.4
URBAN                               5.3J/       .       5.l/c              2.         5.6f       5.2/ a
UROAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)        23.0        ,.      31.4               35.7       39.8       36.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 10 14 YEARS                     47.8      48.1      48.1               46.4       47.5       47.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                     49.7      49.2      49.1               50.4       49.4       49.3
65 YEARS AND OVER                   2.5       2.?       2.8                3.2        3.1        3.3
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                    .a       i.O      1.0                1.0        1.0        1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO             1'6/b      I5/a     1. 8/d             1.6        1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          .       20.7      83.4                         36.8       40.2
USERS IX oF MARRIED WOMEN)            .         ,         .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TIOUSAND)        570.0      700.0/b   760.0/e           700 0     1100.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)       67.0       6Z.3    . 60.37             53.0       55.5
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)         6.0        8.0       ,,                 ,,       14.0 lb
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVA;E INCOME RECID BY-
HIGHEST  5% Of HOUSEHOLDS             ..     26.0/C      ,,               30.0       26.3/C
HIGHESt 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..      rO.6o7-     ..              52.0       54,37
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                     2      S                     4 .0       4. 3-
LOWEST  40% Of HNUSI640LS                     9       4                     ..       12.4
DISTRIBUTIDN OF LAND OWNERSHIP
________-_,I------------------                                                           Et62.7
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF DWNERS            . -       **                                    1.8
X OWNED BY SMALLESt 0% OWNERS
HEALTH ANDO UTRtIION
PDPUlJTIOH pER PHYSICIAN                .,C 312o.0N     1540.0@           2360.0     17120.0    1630.0
POPULATION FpER NURSING PERSON     19170.0JC  9120.0    1540.8            23t0.0      35720.0    1690.0
POPULAI1ON PER HDS;.ITAL BED        620.0T    570.0                          0.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY CF -                                                                            110.
CALORIES 4% OF REQUIREMOENTS)      84.0      99.0      90.0              121.0       91.0       11.
PRO3TEIN (GRAMS PER DAYl           52 0      5S.0       66.0              74.0       50.0       63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21:o/d    2650         .              41.0       29.0        35.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           14.0      10.0       9.0               6.9        17.0        4.6
EDUCATION
ADJLUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO                                                             io00       110.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       7.         .      90.0               109.0       90        2.
SECDNSARY SCH4OL                   6.0        2.0     16.0               17.0       19.0       282.
VEARS OF SCHOOLING PROviDED                                                 1.          20         i.
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)           12.0       2.0       *.0               12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                 24.0      1.          ..               6.0        5.0        10.0
(S OF SECONDARY)47056                                                       .        S0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%1               47.0         -     53.
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               1.8
OCCUPIED LAELLINGS WITHOUT880a                     .      6.090
PlPEO WATER I                      8a0/e                60.0              69.M  
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL 5WEtLINGS)                15.0        ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                  2.0         ..        ..                ..
CONSUMPTION
RAOIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        68.0      5.0        5.               7.0        40.0        23.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          30        50        5.0                 .0      227.0       94.0
ELfCTRICI . (KWH/YR PER CAP)          52.0     121.0                          1.8         .0        6.4
NEWSPRINT (KGIYR PER CAP)              0.4       .1       0.7 _______                   1.0        6.4--___________
EE         - -     -  --   --------------- --  --- -
SfIB NOTES ANOD OSFIkITIOWS ON RtEVERSE



ANNES i
page 2 of 4 page
NOTES
Unoless otherwise notad. data for 1960 refer to aoy year between 1959 cod 1961, for 1970 betwaeen 1968 cod 1970, and for Mostr Recent Estimaute betwoon
1973 aod 1975.
CGNP par capita data are based on the World Bank Atia. othod.l.gy (1974-76 baa is).
0 Interrcon set growth rate (1961 and 1974 ceonsu..); largely due to moigration of El          .Alvaorsnas reaident, in Honduras the population growth
rate Was lower thao the rate of natural tnscresu..
*  Costs Rica baa heen selected a. an objective co,untry for Honduras beC-aus        both countries ire stll, open economlee, dependent on agricultural
..port. and both have apecial trade relationahips with other Contral Anaricco countriae. Yet Coat. Ric. ha. schieved a ouch higher otand.rd
of living and a mmr even distribut-ao of the benefits of development than Hoaduras.
RDDPS    1960     1.  13 important urban centers;        lb  Ratio of p.puistio.n    der 13 sod 65 sod over to total labor force;          /c  1963,
Id   1961-63;    L..  Piped corer Inside.
1970     Is  Ratio of population -,der iS sod 65 und       -0r to lab,- force 10 yeasra sand over;      /b   Labor force 10 years end o-r;
/c  1967-68 per c.pi,. Intone;        /d  Registered. not cli pr...tilnng in the coutry.
MOST RECENT ESTIKATE:       /a  1976.     /b   IBRII oinoatioe               c  1970-74;     /d   Ratio of pop.latio.ncder 15 end 65 and eovc
to labor age 15 years ..nd -0r,        /.  Labor forte age 10 yearn and over;         If  Personnel  in goverrtnunt
servicto only.
FA.RAGIIAY        1970    Ia  Omu to amigration population growth rate is lower then the rate of natural increaze.
DOMINICAN REP., 1970      /a  Due to meig-atlo    population growth rateL Ia ooe     then the rate of natural Lotnnrao          lb  Santo Domingo only.
L.t Santo Domingo urban only.
COSTA RICA        1970    /a  1963-74.
R8, J ....ry 9, 1978
n~OR 'rSONS OP SOCIAL SINDSCAOTMS
Land Area (thou ios2                                                                         %-onulato  nec nrcina norse   - Population divided by nuob.r of pra-icing
Total -Tota1 outface area uep,ieln      land area and 1nland usacs.                           ms en     fa    agrduenuee,`-ri-ed" or          ee-pffl.d"' --a. ovd
AMete.   Most recent estimate of    gricultua1 are    used tamporarily or pare-              suailiary.p.r-nei with training oree-peri-c..
neartly for crope. peetrure, markt A hitches gardesa or to Ies fell-e                    ponulatiob Par hosptital bad - Population dieided by csboc of hoopita1 bad.
available in blnbi. and private ge...ra1 and apeci.ioted hoopital and
GNP per oseita (US51) - fGNP par ..pita estimates at correct marher prices,                   rehebilitation cate.t.; aenld.. nur.aig hones and .otablisimect. for
calculated by acne con-rerlo   mothod as World Baab Atlas (1973-75 baata);                 nustodial sod prav-ti- care.
1960; i970 ..d 597) data.                                                                Par c.pit. supply of naa..i of reouiremetal - Coopoted fron energy
aqeivsl-t of heat food supplies available in .-utry par capita par day,
Pocuatim  andvitLstatistft,                                                             availabi..applisa ompei.. domastin produ-ton. imporsloort. 1-    -0      .- and
P. utio     laid_-ea  millIIon)   As of July first:   if not available. avrag                changes in stock; set supplies exclude animal fned, soede, qu-nities uaed
of twe cad-year a.is to.tc; 1 60, 1970 and 1975 dota.                                       in fond prcesaing and boee, in distribution; req.iramact. -nc      -ai-cd
by'FPAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and haclth concid-
Poulation densit      sac squatrebo    Mid-yeaor population par squars bilostar              string ewiovieotal temperature, body weights, cge and sac distributions of
(ISO heaes)o       total area.                                                             popuiatio, and almaiasg 101 for waste at household level.
Ponuselo  dsnite- sat eQusre ho of -aric. Load - tomputed s.o bare foa          r                            gcet  ne,o  ret.a (oran  nor day) - Protein confect of Par capita
sgricultural lan   only.                                                                   ne      pyo     odPer day; net supply of food is defined so shon;         qtr
moot. for all coantries established by USDA Econmmto Reee arch Sarni...
Vittal satisticso                                                                             provide for a minimsm allowanca of 60 gram    of total protein Per day, und
Crude birth rate nor thcasand    a-aran. - Annual ILi" births per thousan    of               20 gsraa of animal and pulas protein, of which 10 gr-n ahou1d he snimsI
ai-year populatio;    any. _  ertbsicavrges. ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protain; these atandards are 1oar than those of 75 gram      of .toal protein
Cand fiva-y..r -vrag.e ndinga in 1975 for mat recent estimate.                               and 23 gr-s of aaimsl protein as .     -nvrage for the world, proposed hy FAO
Crude daath rate Par thousand. -vrAse - Am-u1 deaths per thouaw"        of mid-year           to the Third World PFod S.rvy.
PoPolation; t.s-yce aritritic .-erag*. eoding in 1960 end 1970 and flys-                 Par ..Pit. orotein supply from    nimaI sad nulae - Protain aepply of food
yer everaga coding in 1971 for met recan.t estimate.                                        derived fron animals and polaca Lm groan per day
lofot mortality rats f/thou) - AnnualI deatha of imf.nts under on. year of ago             Dath rate f/thou) agas 1-4 - Ansual deaths per thOuaand in age iroy 1-1
par thouscand lies births.                                                                 years, to childrs. in this see grup; euggeated sa an indicato      of
Life saw.to.vmt  at birth fyr.) - Average S.umbr of years of life ramainiag at                malnurtrtice.
birth; usaIlly five-year average. coding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develp-
ing countries.                                                                           Edoca tine
fres  reeoducine  ate -Avrage ntumber of Ilie  daughtero s woman will hear           Adjusted enrollant ra,tio ;_"- ermn   chooli- taro'limen  of all   geese. Pr-
in her noma Irpradu.tIv9j period If aesperisrone        presen.t agS-pocific               centage of primary scolae        poplation  . icldos childrec aged 6-11 yearrs
fertility rote; usully five-yearavrage. ending is 1960. 1970 and 1975                      but adjusted for diffe.n.t lengths of primary edocaion, for conntrios etch
for daveoping eminrtias.                                                                   uni-ra.1 edoca.tion, entailment may .cnsd 1001 aicco .-e pupils ore bolos
Population aeseth rato (%) - total - Campohad pnumbl grosth rates of mid-year                 or above the official school sge.
populatton, foc i950-60, 1960.70 and 1970-75.                                             Adlusted anrollrn   t rro     eodrysho         - Cuspotd .o abo-, aucondary
Population erseth rate Cl'u       m    -Coputed lAbs growth rate of tota Idcta                          reqire    t least fou   year  of aprod prioary int-srcie.n
population; different dafinitioma, of urban aroe    may affect cmparahility of             provides   acrl      -tctoeal or ts..cbar trapiniog inot-ticrio   for pupile
data smog cosetrias.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; coresmpondns-   courses ar   gonora 11y ooclod.d
Urban population Ct of total) - Ratio of urban to ftal. population; different              Tast   of schooling provided (first and second 1-enla    - Total yoaro of
defleirionts of srhen area  -y affect comparability of daet amon      countriea.            snboollegl at secondary I.-I,    -tctional instruction may be Parcially o
As. atrunturs (perce.t) - Children (0-14 yasro), soeking-sge (13-64 yearo),                Vonstional erletf of ... ondary) - Vocationa           lu-Citutiuce ivclndr
and retired (AS yea rs an.dover) as porceetages of nid-year popelation.                     technical. induatria1 or other program   which op-rc    fndepend-nln or 
Age depoed.ncy ratio -    ati oef population sodar 10 end h5 and oveor to those              deparneents of steondary i-Otituttioca
of  ges15 hrogh64.                                                                   qdu!lt, IltneCy rate ()-pLi torato adults (ohio to read end crit) at per
moroic dpendocyratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and avr to                   Ie   g   o   oa   adult Poulation aged 15 Yvo-    sodoer
tha, Labor fiorei age group of 15-64 yea.-.
Panil eLani      _ !ncentora fomoltive. thoo) - Cuoulative eumber of anceptoro              H.usmio
of birth-control do-iee under uaupice. of otionat family planning program                Persons nor roa   (urban) - A-prage amber of p-rsont- per roo    in -oopied
sinc    noeptiao.                                                                          conv-tiotna  d-Ilisge in urban se     ,dwell irge eofde no-pnrn-nev
Family pl.nning - usara C% of married   -mn) - Peroentagee of married women of                seu   ocaed ononupied porte.
.hild-he.. ng aog (15-64 years) who use birth- ot -l devices to all married              Otccupied d !IsE!lino  without PIpEd ea ter (1-Occupied   o-tntnn.1ua  d-ef1ing.
women in ame   age group.                                                                  iL urben ad rurl~ areas wirhaut innldn or euthid. piped -ttor f-cilitie
sa percentage of all o-Corupoled duelllingel
Ttllbrforce fithusaad) -Econamlrlliy -cti- persons. imtiuding armad                    Ieletricity in living quarters      percent of teca1 d-ovilg. in urb.e and
forte  end unnplov4 but     oluding housavlvas,    -edeocs, stt.; definition.              rural rarsa.
in earioue cou_tris are not noopareble.                                                  Rural dwnIli.g. conetted to electricity it) - Cimposd an Ab-v foeror -.
Labor forc   in agriculture C1) - Ag,icnltrsel labor force (10 farming, foretry,              dwellings only.
huntof  nd fshig) as pe-oentageof total l.abr forns.
Onneeloved (% of labor fece) - Uliinplo-e     ac  cesIly dnfiond as peson     oha          Consumption
ace a.ble and willing to tabs a lob. out of a Job on a give    day, ramamod out          Radio reneinere (nor thou pee) - kll tYPee of renalior,    for radio brea.dcuttt
uf J oh, and aseoing work foesar     i ..fied minimum period nor .....eding ooe          to general puhllc per thousad of populatiro.     -etlde. eel icneod roc...  r
cob  a  e   he taparble hetweer -ootrrie  due to differeot definition.              in conriee te     n yea.-  when regiatr-ctac of radio aero uas in effort,
ofutoIyd    -ad -ouc    of data, e.g.   amploymeet affica etatistia, sample              data for r.-tc year. may not be -nparable ato- soot        crl-o- abeliuhed
sorveys    cnopulaory onnploynnt insran.e.                                                  loalg
I..eeear ear1. er thou oup) -Psegrcr              oy   e   u  rcr      rt
das  distrbution - Percmettie of prir-t    mnmo (both in cas h sod bind)                  less, thee eight pesns     -olud.o mbulaocoo. hearave and militay
receivd by richest 5%,. richeat 20?. poerast 201, aod poorest 401 of honse-                obiia.L
holds                                                                                    zlectricitv (kuh/yr por can) - AnemaI -ameprbe       at iedotrial,ro1     rro
public sod private nle:ctrititty in kilowatt b.u.u per -apita, ieveraly
liatribcttoe of land    -1erhip - Peroentagee of lend owned by weslthieat 10?                bh...d on production d t. without alanefor I.ase. in grid. hot alle--
and poorest lOt of land .eaers.                                                             iog far imports and euprtri  of electricity.
fiewepriet (halve nor can~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                ~~~) - Per "eP"t anuu  uamt  in igrn
Health and Natritien                                                                          ntmtedfr_      domestic production plu   net iports of newep Po
Poolarion per phy.ficis    - Population divided by etubar of prentiniog
phyaici... qalitfied fin ab me dical school ot ueierstty level



HONDURAS                                                         AN      
ECONONIC DKVM0PMENT DATA                                                  Page 3o 
(Amounts in millions Of U.S. dollar-)
Actual                 Projected                     Aveage Annul Oove Rate                                 Al Perofzs5o      1900 5
1970        1976         1981-        1.965            19707         97-i         1N.5          1970        1976        )91        1t
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                 At 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates
Groos Domestic Product        678.1       834.8       1,106.7       1.31.5.2            3.5          8.8             5.0       100.9       101.9        102.5      103.4.
lI,port (incl. NFl)           222.5       249.7         34.2.5        405.0             1.9          6.5             4.3        33.1        30.5        31.7        31.2
Eurst   mr      cpcty    I89         27~           305         -IM.t-              3.           6.7             6.9       26.6        26.6         27.8       28.0
Consum.ption Espenditure.     569.1       688.3         883.0       1,033.6             3.2          8.1             6.0        86.7       86.0         81.8        79.5
Investment Expenditures
(including stocko)          11.6.5      163.0         238.7         307.0             i.8          8.0             6.5       21.8        19.9         22.1       23.6
Domestic Savings              103.0       130.8         19,6. 7       266.6             6.1          8.8             7.9        18.3        16.0         18.2       20.6
National Savins                88.4       116.2         163.0         210.0             6.7          7.0             6.5        13.2        14.2        15.1        16.2
MERCHANISE TRADE                  Annual Dat-a at Current Prices                                                                         As percent of Total~
I.porto (cif)
Capital Goods                 88.3      138.8         269.0         443.3            i6.5         14.1            13.3        26.8        29.8         29.0       31.1
Petroleum, Oil & Lubricants   16.7       68.2         117.7         195.1            21.9         19.5            13.5         6.6        i0.4         12.7       1.3.7
Other Intemediates            84.8      178.7         353.1         530.0             13.0        18.0            10.7        38.0        37.7         38.0       37.1
C.UpinGood.             68.2      102.9         188.6         258.5              6.7        1.2.9            8.2        30.6        22.1         20.3       18.1
Totalmerch-iiseh Imports
(.tf)                  222.7     4665.6         9128.6      1,627.2            13.1         16.8            fl..3      100.0      100.0        100.0      100.0
E,Mort.
Primoary Products           128.3       272.8         535.5         815.0            13.4         16.6            U.1         72.0        67.6        67.9       64.6
Petrol-a Derivatives         6.2          1.1           3.3           6.3           -25.0         26.6             6.8         3.5        0.3          0.1.        0.3
All Other Goods             43.6        129.6         249.5         Wa1.5            19.9         164.0           15.         26.5        32.         31.7        35.~j1
Total MeRchandise Exoorts
(fob)                178.1        403.5         788.3       1,260.8            164.6        16.3            12.5       100.0       1 00. 0     100. 0      100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices              Averag  1916769  - 10
Export Price Index          105.9       20.r          2783          360.9            i1.4          6.5             6.?
Import Price Index         109.8        203.1         286.4         371.2            10.8          7.1             6.?
Terms of Trade Index        96.6         99.9          97.2          97.2             0.6         .0.6              -
Exports Volume Index         99.5       117.7         167.6         206.6             2.8          7.3             5.4
VALUE AMDED NY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and                       Average Annual Grosth Rates                   As Percent   of Total
NEichange Rates                               - 
Agriculture                 262.8       253.7         308.8         364.5             0.7          4.0             6.2        35.8        30.4        27.9      27.1
Industry and Mining        167.8        216.8         303.2         375.6&            6.6          7.2             5.5       21.8        25.7         27.6      27.9
Services                   287,5        366.5         496.6         608.3             6.1          6.2             +2         42.6       63.9         64.7      45.0
Total                      67T          E"          1.!67         I1,345             77                            51f       1o           =O         1Or.0     100.
PUBLIC FINARCE                                                                                                                            An Percent of GOP
(Cntral Overnmuent)
Curret RievesueB           88.8       128.2         181.8         228.6             5.9          7.7             5.9        13.2       18.0         16.1.     17.0
Current Expendituren       76.6       121.0         184.9         201.8             8.6          8.1             6.8        11.1        16.8        14.0      15.0
Other Public Savings      7.5        17.8          22.2          25.6            18.5          4.5             3.6         1.1         2.2         2.0       1.9
'ublic Sector Capital
Ineineatnt               65.4        63.6         108.8        I.28.1             5.7         11.3             3.6        6.7         7.6          9.8       9.3
As Percent of Total
CENTRAL GOVER3N4ET                    (A    fTtlEpniwa                               DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                              Ata             r
CWEI!H        ITURE DETAILS          A_A6Fed                     ~   ~               INVRTKMD    PRIOGNA  (PIED) 
1970         1976        7I 7                          Social Sec-tror.a                                20.h9     32.0       15
Education                      761T        3Tm           24.3                        Agriculture                                       3.8       6.9       6.6
Other Social Services          16.6        16.0          16.6                        Forestry                                            -       2.1       9.5
Agriculture                     8.2         6.4          12.6                        Power                                            22.7      22.0      36.2
Other Economic Services         9.9        u1.8           9.3                        Transport and Communications                     52.9      38.7      29.3
Adnminitration and Defense     30.9        24.5          25.2                        Other                                                       03        2.6
Other                         13.3         12.0          14.4                        TMaT Expenditures                                          44        5
T.tZ Cu-ront Epa..itures      1"          1=            ID0
SEIECTED INDICATORS          1.965-73     1973-76      1976-81      1981-85          FINANCING OF CAPITAL EXPEN4DITURES
Average  IGOR                  6.18          5.82         3.91      6.36             Public Sector Savilegs                            39.9     36.6      144.0
Import Elasticity              1.12         1.22         1.15       1.15             Capital Revemsise                                 4.3       1.8       1.9
Average National Savings Rate  0.16         0.16          0.15      0.16             Exernal Firnc-ing (net)                          40.4.     60.0      49.1
Marginal Nationa Savings Rate 0.17          0.15          0.18      0.21             Internal Borros4p(net)                           15.6      3.:.8      5.
Total FinSncUg    ~1M.                      1D0.0     100.0
L&BOR FORCE AND OFTPUJT PER   In      Total LabrOfTorti                               (1176Prce     n   xh       Rates)
WORKEND                                         **Mr                                  In U Dollars      Percent of Average
Agriculture                     0.65             0.
Industry                        0.119           16.8                                      2529               186.5
Services                        0.199           24.9                                      25                  7.
not applicable
-nil or negligible.



NONDURAS                                             APNeX 1
BALANCE OF PADENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(In millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual                                                                                      A   tuarolected  A c9,   1
19(0         1976          i'I          198319059~                                                             1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                      DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Emport (including NFS)               196,5        443.1        864.7          1,390.8        Public Debt Outstanding and disb.  90.1      264.1      334.9
ampgrts (includin  NFs9              244.3        509.0        985.5         1.521.4           (end of year)
Res~~DaI~n6  (INY)                1i730.6                                                Interest on Public Debt             2.5       10.2       15.1
Repaynent on Public Debt             3.1       6.14      13.4
Interest (net)                       - 2.5        -15.1        -42.5           -89.0         Total Public Debt Service           5.6       16.6       28.5
Direct Investment Incone             -20.0        -41.1         -55.5          -60.0
Workers' Remittances                   -            -             -               -          Burden on exporta(%)
Current Transfers (net)                6.6         13.2         20.0            30.0
Balance on Current Account           .63.8       -108.9       -198.8          -249.6         Public Debt Service                 2.9        4.8        6.4
Debt Service * Direct Investment
Income                           13.1        9.7       15.7
Private Direct Investment              8.4          7.6         35.0            60.0         Average Terms of Public Debt:
Public M & LT Loans                                                                            Interest as % Frior Tear DO&D     3.9        5.9        5.7
Disbursenents                       28.7         84.2        170.7           249.5           Amort.as % Prior Year DO          4.8       3.7        5.0
-Re anets                           - 3 1       -1 3L        -138.C           727.1
Neta Disbursement s                -1 57'      -767          132.2 71378                  IBRD Debt Outstanding & Disbursed   30.0       56.7      67.4
Other M&LT Loans                                                                             IBRD as ' of Public DOD            33.2       21.4       20.1
Net Disbursements                    2.4         11.7         31.0             50.0        IBPD as N of Public Debt Service   38.5       35.1       23.4
Private Long-term Capital (net)        4.3         18.5          -
Capital Transactions n.e.i.           15.4         23.2           -              -           IDA Debt Outstanding Cc Disbursed  15.2       28.7       30.4
Change in Reserves (-increase)         7.7        -23.0          0.6           -12.2         IDA as S of Public WD              16.9       10.9        9.1
IDA as % of Public Debt Service     1.1        2.0        1.2
LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant .like      5.3          7.3
Publ.c M&LT Loans                                                                                                 Actual Debt Outstanding as of Dec/31/76
IBRD                               5.5         35.0                                           EXTERNAL DEBT        Disbursed Or3ly           ercent
IDA                                8.1         14.0                                      IBRD                           67.4
Other Multilateral                 9.1         38.1                                      IDA                            30.4                   9.1
Goverruents                         _          29.7                                      Other Multilateral              93.5                 27.9
Suppliers                           _          11.2                                      Governoents                    107.1                 32.0
Financial Institutions              .          17.0                                      Suppliers                      12.9                   3.9
Total Public M&LT Loans            "7 145.0                                              Financial Institutions         23.8                   7.1
Total MALT Public Debt        Ti                    10
Total M&LT Public Debt
(including undisbursed)     580.6                 173.1



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS 1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of December 31, 1977)
Loan or
Credit                                                         US$ million amount
No.       Year         Borrower           Purpose        Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and credits fully disbursed    52.1    24.0
767        1971   Emp. Nacional          Ports            9.0       -         2.0
Portuaria
841        1972   Emp. Nacional de       Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  12.3      -          1.0
896        1973   Honduras               Roads            18.8      -         2.4
434        1973   Honduras               Second Live-       -      6.6        2.6
stock Dev.
452        1974   Honduras               Education         -       3.0        0.2
954        1974   Honduras               Education        3.0       -         3.0
1081        1975   Emp. Nacional de       Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  35.0      -         12.4
628        1976   Honduras               Agricultural
Credit          -      14.0       13.8
1341/2      1976   Honduras               Highways        35.0       -        34.6
1395/6      1977   Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria   Ports           12.0      -         12.0
696        1977   Honduras               Ports             -       5.0        5.0
Total                                        177.2    52.6        89.0
of which has been repaid                    22.7     0.7
Total now outstanding                        154.5    51.9
Amount sold                       4.5
of which has been repaid        2.5          2.0      -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /1                                 152.5    51.9
Total undisbursed                             67.5     21.6       89.0



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1978)
Amount in US$ million
Year         Obligor           Type of Business   Loan          Equity     Total
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A (ECCASA)           Tannery         0.30          0.08        0.38
1969/70    Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)                Pulp and Paper   -            0.07        0.07
1977/78    Textiles Rio Lindo,       Textiles       9.00           1.00      10.00
S.A. de C.V.
Total gross commitments                  9.30           1.15      10.45
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                              6.30          0.15        6.45
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                 3.00           1.00       4.00
Total undisbursed                        3.00           1.00       4.00
/1   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 767      Second Port Project:   US$6.0 million Loan of June 25, 1971,
and US$3.0 million Supplemental Loan of July 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: February 22, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The project consists of the expansion of Puerto Cortes on the
North Coast of Honduras, and the construction of the new port
of San Lorenzo, in the South. The Puerto Cortes expansion was
completed in March 1975, but the San Lorenzo port was delayed
about 18 months as a result of Government reconsideration of
its location. The Bank provided additional financing of
US$3.0 million, which was necessary to cover the increased
cost of the San Lorenzo port resulting from the high level
of inflation during the period of the delay. Construction of
this port is now proceeding satisfactorily and should be
completed by April 1978.
Ln. 841      Fifth Power Project:   US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
About 90 percent of the project has been completed with the
installation of the La Ceiba diesels, the interconnection to
Nicaragua and other project works and studies. Full completion
will be delayed by about 3 years beyond the original estimate,
the main delay resulting from the slow preparation of an ex-
panded load dispatch and communication system for control of
energy transfers with Nicaragua and from the addition of a
geothermal resource study. The changes have increased project
cost by 14.3 percent (about US$2.3 million) and will be
financed by a loan from the OPEC Special Fund and internal
cash generation of the Borrower. The current closing date of
June 30, 1978 will have to be extended to allow completion of
the project.
Ln. 896      Sixth Highway Project:   US$18.8 million Loan of May, 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road, the main
project component, has been completed. The Comayagua-La
Libertad Road, 80 Km of feeder roads, and technical and eco-
nomic studies for 430 Km of feeder roads have also been
finished. Pending engineering studies as well as the inclu-
sion of new project components approved by the Bank (rehabi-
litation of roads damaged by Hurricane Fifi and reconstruc-
tion of an additional secondary road) will delay completion of
project works until late 1978 or about one and one-half years
behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan/Credit No.
Cr. 434      Second Livestock Proiect:   US$6.6 million Credit of October 29,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Commitments under this project slowed during 1975 because of
uncertainty resulting from the implementation of the Agrarian
Reform Law. The project is now proceeding satisfactorily,
however, and total commitments are equivalent to 83 percent of
IDA funds allocated to the lending program, with the balance
expected to be committed shortly for two major sub-loans
(Isletas agrarian reform banana plantation and the Tegucigalpa
abattoir). Because of delays in signing these two sub-loans
on the part of beneficiaries, only 61 percent of IDA funds were
disbursed as of December 1977, but the credit is expected
to be fully disbursed by the original closing date.
Ln. 954      First Education Project:   US$3.0 million Loan and US$3.0 million
Cr. 452      Credit, both of January 9, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
April 8. 1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1978.
Implementation of this project is proceeding in a satisfactory
manner. The agricultural training centers are completed and
courses for small farmers and their wives will begin in early
1978. The construction of the extension to the agricultural
school at Catacamas and of INFOP's vocational training centers
at San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa will be completed by mid-1978.
All teacher training facilities are in operation, except one
teacher training school and three related primary application
schools which should be completed by the closing date or soon
thereafter. Funds for technical assistance and fellowships
have not been completely used, due to delays in selecting and
approving candidates, but efforts are being made to accelerate
commitment of these funds. All project works are expected to be
substantially completed by the original closing date of June 30,
1978. A slight extension of this date may be needed, mainly to
complete disbursements for technical assistance and fellowships.
Ln. 1081      Sixth Power Project:   US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project is nearing completion. While the Rio Lindo Power
Plant extension is expected to be completed 2 to 3 months ahead
of schedule, civil works on the major river diversion works
were delayed (Varsovia, 7 months; Yure, 18 months) compared
with the appraisal estimate. All but the Yure diversion works
have now been finished. The project is expected to be completed
within or somewhat below appraisal cost estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan/Credit No.
Cr. 628      First Agricultural Credit Project:   US$14.0 Million Credit
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30. 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, became effective in
late 1976, and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
US$250,000 of IDA funds have been committed and substantially
disbursed at the field level. Commitments of about US$3.5
million have been made for the provision of technical services
under agreements with MNR, the National Agrarian Institute and
the Pan American Agricultural School at Zamorano.
Ln. 1341/    Seventh Highway Project:   US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342      US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The three
major construction contracts have been awarded and work begun.
Contracts have also been awarded for the purchase of mainte-
nance equipment, and pteparation of the Highway Master Plan is
practically complete.
Ln. 1395/    Third Port Project:   US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396     million on Third Window Terms) and US$5.0 Credit, both of
Cr. 696      April 22. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
These loans and credit have just been declared effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a) Prolect Preparation - Pre-Appraisal
(i)  First discussions with Government           September 1976
(ii)  IDA identification mission                  November 1976
(iii) Projet' prepared by Government with
IDA assistance                              March/April 1977
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure                      July 1977
(c)  Negotiations Completed                           February 3, 1978
(d)  Credit Effectiveness Planned                     June 30, 1978
Section II: Special,Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that:
(i) All necessary action, including the issuance of regulations,
would be taken to organize and administer rural primary
education nuclei in a manner satisfactory to IDA no later
than April 1, 1979 (paragraph 36);
(ii) Qualified nuclei directors would be selected and classified
as equivalent to Assistant Supervisors, and rural teachers
would be permitted to work two shifts with adequate remunera-
tion (paragraph '36);
(iii) In-service training courses in multigrade teaching
techniques would be initiated no later than December 1, 1978
(paragraph 38);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)  Draft terms of reference and an implementation schedule for the
school mapping program would be presented to IDA no later than
January 1, 1979 (paragraph 40);
(v) An acceptable evaluation system for the rural primary education
project component would be established no later than July 1,
1979 (paragraph 41);
(vi) For SCD, a revolving fund of no less than US$100,000 would be
made available by the Government no later than September 1,
1978 and key staff acceptable to IDA would be appointed no
later than September 15, 1978 (paragraphs 48 and 47);
(vii) As conditions of effectiveness, a full-time educator acceptable
to IDA would be appointed to the Project Unit, and liaison
officers, also acceptable to IDA, would be appointed for MNR
and COHDEFOR (paragraph 47);
(viii)  As conditions of disbursement for the ENA project items, an
Advisory Board would be established, and action would be taken
to officially upgrade ENA to post secondary level (paragraph 42);
(ix) As a condition of disbursement for the ENF project items, satis-
factory evidence would be received that the Borrower had obtained
financing for the equipment and technical assistance needed
to complement the Bank's contribution (paragraph 43); and
(xiv) As conditions of disbursement for professional veterinary
training, IDA would receive an acceptable signed contract
between MNR and EDUCREDITO regarding the administration of
this program, as well as satisfactory evidence that a
committee had been established to select fellowship
candidates (paragraph 44).






IBRD- 13146
85-.                         87'                          80-                           855.     '   '       *Ce OCTOBERI
BARBARETA  (/UANAJA
|T   1LAND        IZSLAND,
C A I?/ I B B A N                ROaN 1SLAND            SEAA                          .      _
7 -         - .ANDURA5 UUTILA                                ISLAND
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUERTO                (CUT IAJ  10 <>           -          C-CST
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U1                                 L"                    J>!X~\<t:'. L 
ki                                           DELECONtN  t t:; LA CEG8A g= --/84 UA -
A                                                                                                               IC
CEami_ C  CTIJLE          0555 ,C                                   0                                                     C L _,
0 R T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEIARS
i                                                                                   (  ;  (2  r  C  MAtO  o - -] ; r f  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(~C~
j /g t SJERIHIMOv F RA                                                                                                                                       - I AC6 A-*0'2 ;TE
i |              -:       &           _              1MAR S LAIO                        _          R A,R   E CU-
L     !I_A      A    D0S
0   L   A   N   C   HL                            MO     SQU      TI
;IAMA- E/O OROCNC  C h   91 B5 % SLOG  TCMNTL 
= ;  ACE NO *4  Ch-IO99SPAC  IA  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         A"g
AD    ELC                        A-  ' --  '  '                                             S E CAjI
EL TUZ .. IER                                                                         CO 1
n X c > c O C S A N ~~'  '  ; '                  Va-            fA                            F                                         DSY   ER.C   E9_
ER-! F Rt A
O.-GU  M_ __0___R__N
EL      ARIA                     LAOSEU  G  NGLEDB/SL
DC MPIU RA                                                              -                                         9N



