                                               INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET
                                                     RESTRUCTURING STAGE
                                        Note: This ISDS will be considered effective only upon approval of the project restructuring
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                               Report No.: ISDSR7598
                         Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04-Feb-2014
                         Date ISDS Approved/Disclosed: 06-Feb-2014
                         I. BASIC INFORMATION
                            1. Basic Project Data

                            Country:          Djibouti                                     Project ID:           P088876
                            Project Name:     DJ-URBAN POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT (P088876)
                            Task Team         Salim Rouhana
                            Leader:
                            Estimated         03-Dec-2007                                  Estimated   29-Apr-2008
                            Appraisal Date:                                                Board Date:
                            Managing Unit:    MNSSU                                        Lending     Specific Investment Loan
                                                                                           Instrument:
                            Sector:           General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (40%), General
                                              transportation sector (30%), Other social services (10%), Centr al government
                                              administration (10%), General education sector (10%)
                            Theme:            Urban services and housing for the poor (50%), City-wide Infrastructure and
                                              Service Delivery (25%), Participation and civic engageme nt (25%)
                            Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency
                            Recovery) or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                        No
                            Emergencies)?
                            Financing (in USD Million)
                            Total Project Cost:        38.50           Total Bank Financing:                                           2.97
                            Financing Gap:              0.03
                                Financing Source                                                                                 Amount
                              BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                                   7.00
                              IDA Grant                                                                                            2.97
                              FRANCE French Agency for Development                                                                 8.00
                              African Development Bank                                                                            12.00
                              Islamic Development Bank                                                                             8.50
                              Financing Gap                                                                                        0.03
                              Total                                                                                               38.47
                            Environmental B - Partial Assessment
                            Category:




                                                                                Page 1 of 5
                          Is this a           Yes
                          Repeater
Public Disclosure Copy




                          project?

                          2. Current Project Development Objectives
                         The project development objective of the proposed operation is to contribute to the alleviation of
                         poverty in the neighborhoods of Djibouti-ville and in the sec                                 ondary
                         urban centers of the country, by improving access to basic urban services
                         and infrastructure, and supporting local associations and municipal councils, a
                         nd providing access to micro-credit for revenue-generating activities.
                         Proposed New PDO (from Restructuring Paper)
                         The project development objective of the proposed operation is to contribute to the alleviation of
                         poverty in the neighborhoods of Djibouti-ville and in the sec                                 ondary
                         urban centers of the country, by improving access to basic urban services
                         and infrastructure, and supporting local associations and municipal councils, a
                         nd providing access to micro-credit for revenue-generating activities.
                          3. Project Description
                         The DUPREP will have the mandate of operating at the national scale for the reduction of urban
                         poverty, implementing activities in the capital city and in the five secondary regional urban centers of
                         the country. It will contribute to accelerate Djibouti's progress towards the achievement of the
                         MDGs, with particular reference to access to improved water sources and to all-season roads, and
                         household electrification rate.

                          The proposed program would have three components:

                         a)       provision of local infrastructure and basic services, to be implemented via labor intensive
Public Disclosure Copy




                         techniques, so as to favor the satisfaction of the population's needs in terms of access, as well as the
                         creation of employment opportunities for a little qualified manpower;
                         b)       support to community development, which would benefit community associations, non
                         governmental organizations and Local Authorities, with the purpose of supporting their local
                         economic development initiatives at the community, neighborhood, and city levels;
                         c)       supply of micro-finance services to individuals and communities, so as to facilitate the
                         creation or the reinforcement of revenue-generating activities within the targeted communities, and
                         to increase the employment and consumption opportunities of poor households.

                         The DUPREP would build on the accomplishments of the previous operations, and has the ambition
                         of reinforcing and making permanent the strengths of previous experiences. Hence, the first two
                         components would be in continuity with the activities of the PDSTP, while the micro-finance
                         activities would be based on the experience of the Djibouti Social Fund, a project initiated in 2001
                         with the support of the African Development Bank, and now concluding its operations.
                          4. Project location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
                         analysis (if known)
                         Djibouti-ville and the five secondary urban centers where reside the newly-created national Regional
                         Councils, i.e., Ali Sabieh, Arta, Dikhil, Obok and Tadjoura                                h.



                                                                       Page 2 of 5
                            5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
                           Fatou Fall (MNSSU)
Public Disclosure Copy




                           Andrew Michael Losos (MNSEE)

                            6. Safeguard Policies               Triggered? Explanation (Optional)
                            Environmental Assessment OP/        Yes
                            BP 4.01
                            Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04         No

                            Forests OP/BP 4.36                  No

                            Pest Management OP 4.09             No

                            Physical Cultural Resources OP/     No
                            BP 4.11
                            Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10       No

                            Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP      No
                            4.12
                            Safety of Dams OP/BP 4.37           No

                            Projects on International        No
                            Waterways OP/BP 7.50
                            Projects in Disputed Areas OP/BP No
                            7.60
Public Disclosure Copy




                         II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
                             A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
                            1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the Restructured project.
                              Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
                                Social:
                              A person was economically affected (vending kiosk displaced) by the works at the Guachamaleh
                              sports field. While the Government of Djibouti has implemented Bank recommendations on
                              finding a fair, negotiated agreement (site transferred to the Ministry of Youth and Sports and
                              agreement signed between the affected and this Ministry for use of shop), the whole process took
                              time and was sensitive.
                              It is not expected that other OP 4.12 impacts be noted but the team has emphasized that the client
                              needs to inform the Bank and document all potential safeguard related impacts. The team has also
                              requested that the client documents land ownership for all sites where project activities have or
                              will take place.

                             Environment:
                             The project activities are being undertaken in urban areas and consist of minor works and
                             rehabilitation of public sites. Small-scale construction of light buildings is included among project
                             activities, as is the purchase of a vehicle equipped to dredge urban drainage systems.


                                                                        Page 3 of 5
                           As the restructuring does not propose any substantive changes to the project activities, the existing
                           environmental and social management plan (ESMP) contains measures sufficient to manage the
Public Disclosure Copy




                           ongoing activities under the restructured project. No new environmental impacts are expected.
                         2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities
                           in the project area:
                            No indirect or long-term impacts are expected to result from anticipated future activities in the
                           project area related to the activities of the project.
                         3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize adverse
                           impacts.

                         4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide an
                           assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
                            Social:

                           The Bank team provided training to the counterpart. The client will inform the Bank team should
                           any safeguards related impacts be noted, for further recommendations on mitigation measures.

                           Environmental:

                           The existing ESMP has been in effect since the inception of project activities and has been
                           executed satisfactorily by the borrower. The restructuring does not require the addition of any
                           supplementary measures and will rely on the same capacity already developed by the borrower for
                           past activities on this project.
                         5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure
                           on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
                             All consultation conducted for the parent project and additional financing remain valid. The
Public Disclosure Copy




                           restructuring to extend the closing date should not require supplementary consultation.
                         B. Disclosure Requirements
                         Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other
                           Date of receipt by the Bank                                         10-Apr-2010
                           Date of submission to InfoShop                                      23-Apr-2010
                           For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
                           Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
                         "In country" Disclosure

                           Comments:
                         If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources policies, the
                         respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental Assessment/
                         Audit/or EMP.
                         If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why:


                         C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level


                                                                      Page 4 of 5
                            OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
                             Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP)        Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             report?
Public Disclosure Copy




                             If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector         Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             Manager (SM) review and approve the EA report?
                             Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated   Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             in the credit/loan?
                            The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
                             Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the      Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             World Bank's Infoshop?
                             Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public    Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             place in a form and language that are understandable and
                             accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs?
                            All Safeguard Policies
                             Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional       Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             responsibilities been prepared for the implementation of
                             measures related to safeguard policies?
                             Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included    Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             in the project cost?
                             Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project         Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             include the monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures
                             related to safeguard policies?
                             Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed        Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             with the borrower and the same been adequately reflected in
                             the project legal documents?
Public Disclosure Copy




                         III. APPROVALS
                            Task Team Leader: Salim Rouhana
                            Approved By
                            Regional Safeguards Name: Maged Mahmoud Hamed (RSA)                       Date: 06-Feb-2014
                            Coordinator:
                            Sector Manager:     Name: Franck Bousquet (SM)                            Date: 06-Feb-2014




                                                                       Page 5 of 5
