Page  1
                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2117 MAG
             Development Credit Agreement
       (Antananarivo Plain Development Project)
                        between
           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   Dated May 1, 1990
                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2117 MAG
             DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1990, between the DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan (the
CCCE Loan) to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and CCCE; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Account" means the account referred to
in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated February
24, 1988, May 26, 1988, December 19, 1989 and January 12,
1990 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (d)  "BPPA" means the Bureau du Projet de la Plaine
d'Antananarivo, created pursuant to Arrete No. 547, dated
September 2, 1988 under the authority of the President of
the Faritany of Antananarivo;
     (e)  "BPU" means the Bureau des Projets Urbains,
established within MTP by Decree No. 84071, dated
February 15, 1984;
     (f)  "MTP" means the Borrower's Ministere des
Travaux Publics;
     (g)  "MA" means the Borrower's Ministere de la
Production Agricole et du Patrimoine Foncier;
     (h)  "Steering Committee" means the committee
referred to in paragraphs (1) through (3) of Schedule 4
to this Agreement;
     (i)  "Meteorology Department" means the Direction de
la Meteorologie Nationale within the Borrower's Ministere
des Transports de la Meteorologie et du Tourisme; and
     (j)  "FIVREN" means the Fivondronana of Antanarivo
Renivohitra; and
     (h)  "FMG" means the currency of the Borrower.
                      ARTICLE II
                      The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty three
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a commercial bank in the name of its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Page  3
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1997 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1
in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (@)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2000 and
ending February 1, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on February 1, 2010
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Page  4
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall
carry out Parts A through J.2 and J.4 of the Project
through BPPA, and Part J.3 of the Project through MA,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. By December 31, 1992, the Borrower
shall establish an autonomous legal entity responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the flood control
and drainage facilities in the Plain of Antananarivo,
whose manager shall be empowered to order, in case of
flood warning, the closing of all gates at the entrance
and at the outlet in the Plain of Antananarivo, whose
budget shall be reviewed every three years by the
Borrower, whose operational deficits shall be covered by
the Borrower and whose surpluses, if any, shall be
deposited into the Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing,
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 87-287,
dated August 4, 1987.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through MA, take
all necessary measures to assure at all times adequate
dilution discharges for the Andriantany and C3 Canals.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
Page  5
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section,
               including those for the Special Account,
               and the records and accounts of the
               Faritany of Antananarivo, FIVREN, and the
               entity referred to in Section 3.03 of
               this Agreement, upon its creation, for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than
               six months after the end of each such
               year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Association such
                    other information concerning said
                    records, accounts and the audit
                    thereof as the Association shall
                    from time to time reasonably
                    request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Association has received the audit for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Credit Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Association's
                    representatives to examine such
                    records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
Page  6
                       ARTICLE V
              Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:
               (A)  The right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of the CCCE
                    Loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have
                    been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms of the CCCE
                    Loan Agreement, or
               (B)  the CCCE Loan Agreement shall have
                    become due and payable prior to the
                    agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
                    termination or prematuring is not
                    caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its
                    obligations under such agreement;
                    and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are
                    available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph
(a) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of
that Section.
                      ARTICLE VI
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has established the Project
Account in its Central Bank and made an initial deposit
of FMG 1 billion;
     (b)  the Borrower has issued a decree protecting the
irrigated areas of the Plain of Antananarivo against
urbanization;
     (c)  the Borrower has submitted to the Association
a financing plan for operation and maintenance of the
flood control and drainage system of the Plain of
Antananarivo acceptable to the Association;
     (d)  all conditions precedent to initial
disbursement of the CCCE Loan Agreement, other than
Page  7
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been met; and
     (e)  all the conventions de travail have been signed
by the respective parties in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VII
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the
time responsible for finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances et du Budget
          Antananarivo
          Madagascar
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MINFIN                   22489
               Antananarivo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                         82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
               By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivela
                               Authorize Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                Regional Vice President
Page  8
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE 1
       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)    Civil works under:               100% of foreign
                                        expenditures and
                                        90% of local
                                        expenditures
   (a) Parts F.1        5,110,000
       through F.3
       of the Project;
   (b) Parts F.4          150,000
       through F.7
       of the Project;
   (c) Part G of the    2,030,000
       Project
   (d) Parts A.3 and C.1  750,000
       of the Project
   (e) the Parts of the 3,160,000
       Project not
       included in (a)
       through (d)
       above
(2)    Goods for:                       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures,
   (a) Parts F.4           80,000       100% of local
       through F.7                      expenditures
       of the Project                   (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 90%
   (b) Part H of the      830,000       of local ex-
       Project                          penditures for
                                        other items pro-
   (c) the Parts of the   830,000       cured locally
       Project not
       included
       in (a) and (b)
       above
(3)    Consultants'     2,110,000       100%
   services and
   training
(4)    Operating costs                  90%
   under:
   (a) Part H of          900,000
       the Project
   (b) Part I and         380,000
       of BPPA
(5)    Refunding of       830,000       Amount due pur-
Page  9
   Project Prepara-                     suant to Section
   tion Advance                         2.02 (c) of this
                                        Agreement
(6)    Unallocated      5,840,000
   TOTAL               23,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means incremental
operating costs relating to vehicles, personnel and
offices, necessitated through execution of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for the execution of Parts F.1
through F.3 of the Project to be financed under Category
(1) (a) unless (i) a contract, satisfactory to the
Association, has been signed by FIVREN and a private
entity for the operation and.maintenance of the sewerage
system, and (ii) FIVREN has introduced a water tax, at a
rate acceptable to the Association.
     (c)  payments made for the purposes of Parts F.4
through F.7 to be financed under Category (1) (b) unless
FIVREN has signed contracts with private firms for the
collection and treatment of solid wastes satisfactory to
the Association;
     (d)  payments made for the purposes of Part H of the
Project to be financed under Categories (2) (b) and (4)
(a) unless the Borrower has amended its legislation
relating to land registration to make mandatory the
recording of any transfer of ownership of land;
     (e)  payments made for the purposes of Part G of the
Project to be financed under Category (1) (c) unless the
Borrower has promulgated measures to control the
urbanization of the southern part of the Plain of
Antananarivo acceptable to the Association; and
     (f)  payments made for the purposes of Parts A.3,
C.1 and G of the Project under Categories (1) (c) and (d)
unless the Borrower has implemented the resettlement plan
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to improve the
living conditions of the low-income population residing
in the low-lying areas of the Plain of Antananarivo and
to increase the productivity of the industries and of the
farms in the Plain of Antananarivo.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
Page  10
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:   Ikopa and North Dikes
1.   Levelling the dikes near Anosizato and raising the
dike along the Sisaony River.
2.   Raising the level and reinforcement of the existing
dike on the right bank of the Ikopa River.
3.   Raising the Jevel and shaping the dike slopes of the
existing north dikes along the Mamba River.
4.   Construction of a new dike between the previous dike
and Soavimasoandro.
5.   Construction of platforms for resettlement of people
to be relocated under the Project.
Part B:   Flood Warning System
1.   Construction of 4 automatic hydrometric stations
with teletransmission stations and access roads.
2.   Rehabilitation of the Antelomita station.
3.   Equipping of 3 radio relay stations.
4.   Provision of equipment, including electronic
equipment, and vehicles for, and rehabilitation of the
existing office of, the central station.
Part C:   Drainage
1.   Enlarging and dredging of the Andriantany canal.
2.   Construction of a north retention pond, a downstream
retention pond, a canal between the pond and the pumping
station, and the northern part of the C3 Canal.
Part D:   Pumping Station
     Construction of a pumping station and installation
of hydraulic, hydromechanic and electric equipment.
Part E:   Rehabilitation of the Irrigation System
1.   Construction of a new irrigation canal (15.7 Km).
2.   Rehabilitation of existing irrigation canals.
3.   Construction of secondary irrigation canals.
4.   Rehabilitation and construction of intakes, outlets
and installation of non-return check valves.
Part F:   Urban Sanitation
     Sewerage
1.   Rehabilitation of the two existing pumping stations.
2.   Rehabilitation of the existing primary and secondary
sewerage network.
3.   Construction of sewerage networks in Isotry,
Tsaralalana, Analakely and Antanimena, including house
connections and pumping stations.
     Solid Wastes, Composting Plant
Page  11
4.   Construction of a reception pit of 300 M3.
5.   Installation of a weighing station.
6.   Construction of a concrete pavement on the existing
fermentation area.
7.   Construction of a control station and improvements
of existing buildings.
Part G:   Drainage South
     Construction of 2 retention ponds, an overflow on
the Andriantany Canal of the southern part of the C3
Canal, and a primary road network.
Part H:   Land Registry
     Provision of equipment, including topographic
equipment, office equipment and vehicles.
Part I:   Land Tax Office
     Strengthening of the land tax office and provision
of equipment, mini computers and vehicles.
Part J:   Studies
1.   Studies relating to drainage, sanitation and solid
waste.
2.   Urbanization studies for the southern part of the
Plain of Antananarivo.
3.   A watershed management study.
4.   A tax burden study.
5.   Studies on the agriculture development possibilities
of the Antananarivo area.
                       *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1996.
                      SCHEDULE 3
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A through G
of the Project shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Madagascar may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
Page  12
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 up to an aggregate of the equivalent of
$2,000,000 and civil works estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $500,000 up to an aggregate of the
equivalent of $10,000,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally; provided however that:
     (a)  registration of bidders in the Borrower's
Registry of Commerce shall not be required for the
acceptance of their bids;
     (b)  no procurement shall be made on the basis of
selected tendering or direct contracting except in the
case of rejection of all bids;
     (c)  bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders
of their representatives shall be allowed to be present;
and
     (d)  no special preference shall be given to local
bidders in the evaluation of bids.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$20,000 per contract up to an aggregate of the equivalent
of $200,000 may be procured on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement
Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
Page  13
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                      SCHEDULE 4
                Implementation Program
                  Steering Committee
1.   By December 31, 1990 the Borrower shall establish
and, thereafter, maintain a Steering Committee for the
purpose of overseeing implementation of the Project.
2.   The Steering Committee shall be composed of high
level representatives of the Ministry of Economy and
Planning, Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Interior,
MA, Ministry of Finance and Budget, the Faritany of
Antananarivo and FIVREN.
3.   The Steering Committee shall convene each quarter
and be chaired by the representative of the Ministry of
Economy and Planning.
                    Project Account
4.   During execution of the Project, and without any
limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain a Project Account
in its central bank for the purpose of making available
the Borrower's contribution for the Project.
5.   At the beginning of each year the Borrower shall
replenish the Project Account with an adequate amount to
reestablish a balance of 2 billion FMG.
6.   The Borrower shall implement the resettlements in
accordance with the resettlement plan, as approved by the
Association, shall make adequate budgetary allocations
therefor, and shall commence
works under Parts A.3, C.1 and G of the Project only upon
implementation of such resettlement plan, satisfactory to
the Association.
                Coordination, Reporting
7.   BPPA shall be responsible for overall Project
coordination and shall prepare quarterly progress
reports, which shall be furnished to the Association not
later than two months after the end of each quarter.
8.   BPPA shall prepare the Project Completion Report in
Page  14
accordance with Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions.
                Conventions de Travail
9.   In order to define the respective obligations of the
parties concerned regarding the execution of the Project
and the maintenance of the facilities constructed or
rehabilitated under the Project, the Borrower shall cause
BPPA to enter into a convention de travail with each of:
(i) MTP, (ii) MA, (iii) Ministry of Finance and Budget,
(iv) FIVREN, (v) Meteorology Department, and (vi) BPU.
     All such conventions de travail shall be acceptable
to the Association.
               Operation and Maintenance
10.  The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
cause all the irrigation user associations concerned to
collect adequate water charges to cover the operating and
administrative expenses of the federation of irrigation
user associations of the Plain of Antananarivo.
11.   During each year of execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall include in its budget adequate funds to
cover the cost relating to the operation and maintenance
of the Tanjombato Dam and the main irrigation Canal.
                Urban Sector Investment
12.  By October 31 of each year the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for review and comment the
three-year program of investments and expenditures to be
undertaken by the Borrower in the urban sector in
Madagascar.
                      SCHEDULE 5
                    Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount of $2 million to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
Page  15
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the
               Association requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as
               the Association shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Association the documents and other
               evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested. On the basis
               of each such request, the Association
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account and
               deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any
Page  16
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
