Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6393 
 
Operation Name 
Public Expenditure Development Policy Loan (PEDPL2) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); General public 
administration sector (30%);Compulsory pension and 
unemployment insurance (30%) 
Project ID 
P120399 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Kneza Milosa 20 
Belgrade 
Serbia 
11000 
Tel: (381-11) 362-0519 
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 3, 2011 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 15, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 28, 2011 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
With a relatively large public sector already going into the crisis, expenditure reprioritization and a 
reduction of current expenditures remains critical over the medium term, especially amid government 
plans to increase spending on needed infrastructure. The proposed Public Expenditure Development 
Loan 2 (PEDPL2) is the second Operation in a programmatic series focusing on structural reforms 
aimed at improving the productivity of spending and containing overall spending levels. The proposed 
DPL series builds on the previous World Bank work with the Government of Serbia (GoS), as supported 
by previous Structural Adjustment Operations and helps the GoS to prepare the best for mitigation of the 
impact of the international economic crisis. The proposed operation is complemented by another DPL 
series aimed at supporting Serbia’s Private and Financial Sector Development. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Public Expenditure DPL series is designed to support the government in the creation of a smaller 
and more efficient public sector while at the same time providing for well targeted social programs. The 
level of public spending in Serbia is high relative to other countries in the region. Both current and 
capital spending has been increasing between 2005 and 2009. Within current transfers, wages and 
pensions account for most of the increases. The increase in the wage bill reflects both increases in 
employment levels and wages in health and education. The substantial increase in pension payments is 
due to past indexation of pensions to sharply growing wages and one large exceptional pension increase 
in late 2008.  
The objective of the proposed PEDPL2 is to help reduce the size of Serbia’s large public sector by 
supporting reforms that will help improve the productivity of public spending, structured around three 
key policy areas: (i) public expenditure allocation reforms to improve the efficiency of spending in the 
Page  2
largest spending sectors; (ii) public expenditure and debt management reforms to make spending more 
strategic and to improve its fiscal management with a particular focus on fiduciary conditions; and (iii) 
social assistance reforms, especially for cushioning the impact of the economic crisis and enhancing the 
coverage of the social assistance programs going forward. 
 
3. Description 
 
The objective of the proposed PEDPL2 will be achieved through supporting reforms carried out by the 
GoS which are summarized in three pillars: 
 
Pillar I 
supports public expenditure allocation reforms to help improve the efficiency of spending in the 
largest spending sectors.
 
Specific reforms supported by PEDPL2 include 
·
A
nominal wage freeze for public employees until end-2010, at all levels of Government, and the 
adoption by Government of a decision on an initial post-freeze wage indexation policy consistent 
with medium term fiscal goals. 
·
Enactment of Law to address fundamental problems in the pension system with parametric 
measures to reform the first pillar (mandatory, contributions funded pillar of the pension system). 
 
Pillar II
 supports public expenditure and debt management reforms to make spending more strategic 
and to improve its fiscal management with a particular focus on fiduciary conditions. Reforms under this 
pillar are targeted to (i) put in place a more comprehensive, integrated medium-term planning and 
budgeting framework; (ii) improve public expenditure monitoring and control; and (iii) strengthening 
debt management. Specific reforms supported by PEDPL2 include: 
·
Budget Memorandum includes: (i) All General Government Sector revenue and expenditure; (ii) 
Identification of fiscal risks, including contingent liabilities; and (iii) Medium term estimates for 
three years by direct budget beneficiary. 
·
The Public Debt Administration (PDA) is fully staffed and has completed, inter alia, the 
establishment of a comprehensive debt database, the preparation of a comprehensive medium-
term debt management strategy, and the description and qualitative risk assessment of all 
outstanding Government guarantees. 
 
Pillar III
 supports social assistance reforms, especially for cushioning the impact of the economic crisis 
and enhancing the coverage of the social assistance programs going forward. Reforms under this pillar 
are targeted to improve the tracking of the demand for social assistance and social program performance 
and impact, and to promote access to more adequate means-tested cash benefits and to social services. 
Specific reform supported by PEDPL2 include: 
·
Enactment of legislation
 
to improve the access of vulnerable groups by applying the equivalence 
scales for MOP in accordance with the prevalent EU and OECD practices and adjust the 
spending on MOP accordingly. 
 
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
5.  Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
Page  3
The PEDPL2 comes at a time of heightened concerns for poverty and unemployment in the country. 
Estimates of poverty based on the first six months of 2010 show that poverty overshot its 2008 levels 
(the headcount is now 8.8 percent). This increase is higher than initial simulations had suggested, and is 
accompanied by growing unemployment (the unemployment rate is now 20 percent for the 15-64 age 
group).
1
Against this background, the measures supported by this Operation contribute to expand the 
reach of the last resort social assistance and support the livelihoods of some of the most vulnerable 
groups 
–
such as poor pensioners who benefit from an increase in minimum pensions. Other measures, 
such as the wage freeze and the pension freeze are likely to have had a negative impact on some groups, 
but these impacts are limited and were partly offset by other measures (i.e. the lump sum payments to 
poor pensioners). The process of school rationalization is unlikely to have a negative impact on access, 
though it might be opposed locally by some communities. 
 
6. Environmental Aspects 
 
The major pillars of the PEDPL series have been assessed for likely significant effects on the 
environment, forests and natural resources under the requirements of the World Bank's OP 8.60. The 
specific country policies supported by the Operation are not likely to have significant effects on Serbia's 
environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under the loan are primarily geared 
towards supporting the increased efficiency and sustainability of public expenditures. This will cover 
cross-sectoral public sector reforms, sectoral reform in pensions and public sector wages, and social 
protection. None of the sectors included in the Operation are expected to have any direct significant 
links to the environment 
 
7. Contact point 
 
Contact: Marina Wes 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: +90 312 4598359  
Fax: +90 312 4462442 
Email: mwes@worldbank.org 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
1
A
more detailed update in these trends is provided by World Bank (2011) “Western Balkans Programmatic Poverty Update. 
Poverty Update for the Republic of Serbia” . 
Page  4
