Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5845 
 
Operation Name 
Public Expenditure Development Policy Loan (PEDPL2) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); General public 
administration sector (30%);Compulsory pension and 
unemployment insurance (30%) 
Project ID 
P120399 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Kneza Milosa 20 
Belgrade 
Serbia 
11000 
Tel: (381-11) 362-0519 
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 21, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
TBD 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 16, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
With a relatively large public sector already going into the crisis, expenditure reprioritization and a 
reduction of current expenditures remains critical over the medium term, especially amid government 
plans to increase spending on needed infrastructure. The proposed Public Expenditure Development 
Loan 2 (PEDPL2) is the second Operation in a programmatic series focusing on structural reforms 
aimed at improving the productivity of spending and containing overall spending levels. The proposed 
DPL series builds on the previous World Bank work with the Government of Serbia (GoS), as supported 
by previous Structural Adjustment Operations and helps the GoS to prepare the best for mitigation of the 
impact of the international economic crisis. The proposed operation is complemented by another DPL 
series aimed at supporting Serbia뭩 Private and Financial Sector Development. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Public Expenditure DPL series is designed to support the government in the creation of a smaller 
and more efficient public sector while at the same time providing for well targeted social programs. The 
level of public spending in Serbia is high relative to other countries in the region. Both current and 
capital spending has been increasing between 2005 and 2009. Within current transfers, wages and 
pensions account for most of the increases. The increase in the wage bill reflects both increases in 
employment levels and wages in health and education. The substantial increase in pension payments is 
due to past indexation of pensions to sharply growing wages and one large exceptional pension increase 
in late 2008.  
The objective of the proposed PEDPL2 is to help reduce the size of Serbia뭩 large public sector by 
supporting reforms that will help improve the productivity of public spending, structured around three 
key policy areas: (i) public expenditure allocation reforms to improve the quality of spending in the 
Page  2
largest spending sectors; (ii) public expenditure and debt management reforms to address poorly 
managed fiscal spending and to help improve fiduciary conditions; and (iii) social assistance, especially 
for cushioning the impact of the economic crisis and enhancing the coverage of the social assistance 
programs going forward.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The objective of the proposed PEDPL2 will be achieved through supporting reforms carried out by the 
GoS which are summarized in three pillars: 
 
Pillar I  - Public Expenditure Allocation Reforms 

Containing the public sector wage bill and improving public administration 

Making the pensions system fiscally sustainable 
 
Pillar II - Public Expenditure Management Reforms
:

Putting in place a more comprehensive, integrated medium-term planning and budgeting 
framework
 

Improving public expenditure monitoring and control 

Strengthening debt management 
 
Pillar III  - Social assistance and protecting the most vulnerable
 

Improving  the tracking of the demand for social assistance and social program performance and 
impact 

Promoting access to more adequate means-tested cash benefits and to social services 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The major pillars of the PEDPL series have been assessed for likely significant effects on the 
environment, forests and natural resources under the requirements of the World Bank's OP 8.60. The 
specific country policies supported by the Operation are not likely to have significant effects on Serbia's 
environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under the loan are primarily geared 
towards supporting the increased efficiency and sustainability of public expenditures. This will cover 
cross-sectoral public sector reforms, sectoral reform in pensions and public sector wages, and social 
protection. None of the sectors included in the Operation are expected to have any direct significant 
links to the environment 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Marina Wes 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5265+706 
Fax:  
Email: mwes@worldbank.org 
Page  3
Location: Belgrade, Serbia (IBRD)
 
