                                                     CONFORMED COPY




                                                 LOAN NUMBER 8061-YF




              Loan Agreement
(Second Programmatic Public Expenditure Development Policy Loan)


                            between


                    REPUBLIC OF SERBIA



                              and


      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                 AND DEVELOPMENT




                      Dated May 27, 2011
                                                                  LOAN NUMBER 8061-YF

                                    LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated May 27, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ( “Bank”) for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:

                ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
        to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000)
        (“Loan”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
        (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
        the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread. Notwithstanding the
        foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and
        such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
        Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
                terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
                the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
                withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
                interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
                Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
                versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
                based on a Fixed Spread.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
                accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
                General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
                Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.


2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
        furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
        Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
                exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the
                progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
                its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
                Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
                the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
                taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
                1 to this Agreement.

                        ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
        has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
        be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
        specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of thirty
        (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.



                                               -2-
                     ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
        Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
        and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the date of
        this Agreement.

                     ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministry of Finance
        20 Kneza Milosa St.
        11000 Belgrade
        Republic of Serbia

        Facsimile:

        (381-11) 3618-961

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                 Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or         1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)




                                              -3-
AGREED at Belgrade, Republic of Serbia, as of the day and year first above written.



                                       REPUBLIC OF SERBIA



                                       By /s/ Mirko Cvetkovic
                                                                Authorized Representative



                                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                       By /s/ Loup J. Brefort
                                                                Authorized Representative




                                             -4-
                                         SCHEDULE 1

                      Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.     Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.      The Borrower has enacted a new Pension Law, satisfactory to the Bank, published in the
        Official Gazette of the Borrower No. 101/10 of December 29. 2010, to introduce
        parametric changes to strengthen the public pension system.

2.      The Borrower has implemented a nominal wage freeze for public employees at all levels
        of Government until end-2010, and has adopted a post-freeze wage indexation policy: (i)
        2009 Budget Law – Articles 7 and 26, published in the Official Gazette of the Borrower
        No. 120/08 of December 29, 2008; (ii) 2009 Budget Law revision – Article 7, published
        in the Official Gazette of the Borrower No. 31/09 of April 30, 2009; (iii) 2010 Budget
        Law – Articles 8 and 42, published in the Official Gazette of the Borrower No. 107/09 of
        December 23, 2009; (iv) 2011 Budget Law – Article 8, published in the Official Gazette
        of the Borrower No. 101/10 of December 29. 2010; and (v) Budget System Law Revision
        and Amendments, published in the Official Gazette of the Borrower No. 101/10 of
        December 29. 2010).

3.      The Borrower has adopted a Budget Memorandum, published in the Official Gazette of
        the Borrower No. 102/10 of December 30, 2010, which includes:

        (a)    all General Government Sector revenue and expenditures;

        (b)    identification of fiscal risks, including contingent liabilities; and

        (c)    medium term estimates for three years by direct budget beneficiary.

4.      The Borrower has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the Public Debt Administration
        is fully staffed and has completed the following activities:

        (a)    established a comprehensive debt database;

        (b)    prepared a comprehensive medium-term debt management strategy;

        (c)    prepared and delivered to the Bank a complete description, satisfactory to the
               Bank, of all outstanding Government guarantees, including a qualitative analysis
               of the risk of payments under these guarantees; and

        (d)    prepared procedures manuals for the main debt management activities.




                                               -5-
5.      The Borrower has submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament a draft Social Welfare Law,
        satisfactory to the Bank, to improve access of vulnerable groups to last-resort cash
        assistance by: (i) applying equivalence scales in accordance with the prevalent European
        Union (EU) and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development practices; and
        (ii) spending on last-resort cash assistance adjusted accordingly.

Section II.    Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
        provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
        notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
        end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
        withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
        is set out in the table below:

                              Allocations                             Amount of the Loan
                                                                           Allocated
                                                                      (expressed in USD)
         Single Withdrawal Tranche                                         99,750,000
         Front-end Fee                                                        250,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                                     100,000,000


C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a)
        with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of
        the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Loan Amounts.

        Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.     all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
               account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

        2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
               this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
               management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

E.      Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
        not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
        amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the



                                             -6-
     Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
     amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
     shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.




                                        -7-
                                        SCHEDULE 2
                                      Amortization Schedule

1.     The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
       percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
       Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
       the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
       Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
       multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
       the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
       adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
       to which a Currency Conversion applies.

             Principal Payment Date                             Installment Share
                                                            (Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15 and October 15

       Beginning October 15, 2026                                       10.0%
       through April 15, 2031

2.     If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
       Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
       Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       (a)       To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
                 Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
                 as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

       (b)       Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
                 each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
                 determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
                 fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
                 table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
                 Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
                 Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
                 date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
                 referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
                 applies.

3.     (a)       Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
                 Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
                 amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
                 outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
                 withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
                 with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.



                                               -8-
     (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
             time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
             on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
             paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
             such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
     Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
     Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
     Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
     the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
     to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
     the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
     relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
     Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
     provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
     Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.




                                            -9-
                                         APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
               United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
               or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
               designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

                         Group                Sub-group              Description of Item
                         112                                         Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                         Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                                     tobacco refuse
                         122                                         Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                     (whether or not containing
                                                                     tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                         Radioactive and associated
                                                                     materials
                         667                                         Pearls, precious and
                                                                     semiprecious stones,
                                                                     unworked or worked
                         718                  718.7                  Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                     thereof; fuel elements
                                                                     (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                                     for nuclear reactors
                         728                  728.43                 Tobacco processing
                                                                     machinery
                         897                  897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                                     platinum group metals
                                                                     (except watches and watch
                                                                     cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                                     silversmiths’ wares
                                                                     (including set gems)
                         971                                         Gold, non-monetary
                                                                     (excluding gold ores and
                                                                     concentrates)



                                             - 10 -
        (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
                consumption;

        (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
                prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
                the Borrower is a party;

        (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
                Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
                and

        (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
                coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
                recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
                having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
                such practices when they occur.

2.      “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
        Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications
        set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

3.      “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to help reduce
        the size of the Borrower’s large public sector by supporting reforms that will help
        improve the efficiency of public spending, structured around three key policy areas: (i)
        improving allocation of public expenditure to enhance the efficiency of spending in the
        largest spending sectors; (ii) strengthening of public expenditure and debt management
        to make spending more strategic; and (iii) strengthening social assistance to cushion the
        impact of the economic crisis and expand the coverage of the social assistance programs
        and set forth or referred to in the letter dated March 21, 2011 from the Borrower to the
        Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
        requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

4.      “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
        entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.




                                             - 11 -
2.   Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
     entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.   Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
     Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.   Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
     relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

             “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

             …         (c)     The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
             bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
             two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s
             representatives to examine such records.”

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

             Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

             …       (c)      The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
             to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
             scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
             the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
             respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
             the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:

              “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
             Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
             Agreement.”

     (b)     The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety.




                                           - 12 -
(c)   The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified
      to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General
      Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

      “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
      which the Loan is made.”




                                  - 13 -
