Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10628-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSIESS PRO4TTION PROJ3CT
JULY 21, 1992
N I 'RF I CHE C'OPY
heport No :IO 6258--PJ]
r L.i-+r:  FAUPUSIP2;s-  I(9l'RCMOT'N PRO)JECT
Ext. :  4255 1v c   J i09?7 Dept. :Ah  AFP
Agriculture Operation DivisiOU
South-Central and Indian Ocean Departimelat
This document has a restricted disttibutOn and myis be used by rcipients only in the performance
their f   dties. Its contents ,*Y not Otbefwb



Currency Enuivalents
Period Average
Currency unit                    =       Burundi Franc (FBu)
1992 USS1.00                             FBU 200 (as of March 1992)
1991 US$1.00                     =       FBu 181.5
1990 US$1.00                     =       FBu 171
1989 US$1.00                     =       FBu 159
1988 USS1.00                     =       FBu 140
1987 US$1.00                     =       FBu 124
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric International Standard System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADAP                     Association pour le developpemcntagro-pastoral (Farmers' professional association)
AfDB             =       African Development Bank
AGCD             =       Administration Gdnerale de la Coopdration au Developpement (Belgian)
APDF             =       African Project Development Facility
APEE             =       Agence de promotion des echanges exterieurs (Export Promotion Agency)
BCC              =       Burundi Coffee Company
BEST             =       Burundi Enterprise Support and Training Pr( lect
BNDE             =       Banque nationale de d6v-loppement economique (Development Bank)
BTC              =       Burundi Tobacco Comp:.ny
CCCE             =       Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (French Aid Agency)
CCIB             =       Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Burundi
COGERCO          =       Compagnie de gdrance du coton (Cottun Company)
COTEBU           =       Complexe textile dt; Burundi (Textile Company)
EAP              =       Environmental Action Plan
EC               =       European Communities
EB               =       European Investment Bank
FMA              =       Fund Management Agency
PMU                      F Pund Management Unit
ICP              =       Interministerial Committee for Privatization
IFC              =       International Finance Corporation
MCI              =       Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOAL             =       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
NGO              -       Non-governmental organization
OCIBU            =       Office du Cafe du Burundi (Coffee Board)
OTB              =       Office du the du Burundi (Tea Board)
PE                       Public Enterprise
PA               =       Project Administrator
PSD                      Private Sector Development
RDC                      Regional Development Company
SAC                      Structural Adjustment Credit
SAE                      Service d'appui aux exportations (Export Promotion Service)
SCEP                     Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques (Public Enterprises Reform Office)
SEM                      SociEe6 d'economie mixte (Mixed-capital Company)
SIDI                     Societe d'investissement et de ddveloppement international (Internatioral Investment
and Development Company)
SODECO           =       Societe de deparchage et de commercialisation (Hulling and Marketing Company)
SOCESTAL         =       Societe de gestion des stations de lavage (Washing Stations Managernent Company)
SOSUMO           =       Societe sucriere du Mosso (Mosso Sugar Company)
SRDI             =       Societe rdgionale do developpemcnt de l'lmbo (Imbo Regional Development
Company)
SSE/APEX                 Small-scale Enterprise Project
TC                       Treasury Certificates
TEC              =       Technical Evaluation Commissions
USAID            =       United States Agency of International Development
VAT              =       Value-added Tax
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI FISCAL YEAR
January I to December31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BLRUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PR0MC0Q<N PROQJEC
STAPP APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Conket
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  .        ........................................
I. INTRODUCTION   .          ............................................
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND    ..................................                                  2
A. The Public Agro-Industries         .........................                      3
1. Introduction            .........................                          3
2. Status and Performance  ................................  3
B. PrivateAgribusiness             .........................                         4
M. GOVERNMENT'S POLICY IN AGRICULTURE AND AGRIBUSINESS .........                             6
A. Past Policies and Performance ...................                                 6
B. The New Policy  ............             .............................   6
IV. THEPROJECT          ..............................................   8
A. Project Objectives and Justification ..............          ................   8
B. Project Description    ................... .....................   8
C. DetaUedFeatures .............                                                     9
1. Privatization of Publicly held Agro-dustries  ..................  9
2. Assistance to Private Entrepreneurs ........................   13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Burundi from March 9 to
30 1992; The mission consisted of Messrs. Jean-Frangois Barres, Sr. Agricultural Economist
(AF3AG, mission leader and task manager), Jean-Claude Fayd'Herbe, Senior Financial Analyst
(AF3AG - financial sector), Lucie Phillips, Economist, (Consultant-private enterprise), Cbarles Thiry,
Management Specialist, (Consultant-privatization), FElix Nahimana (Consultant-Legal issues). Mr.
Claude Carlier, Senior Agriculturalist, (AFTAG) was peer reviewer. Contributions are acknowledged
from Juste Rwamabuga, Operations Officer (RMB-investment prospects), Mr. Xavier Reille,
Consultant (Investment Company Component), Mr. Van Tuu Nguyen, Senior Irrigation Specialist
(AFTAG -Rescructuring of the Imbo RDC) and Mr. Charles Bolduc, Sr. Financial Analyst (AF3AG).
Bilingual secretarial support was provided by Mme Mo-wue Piette, Sr. Staff Assistant, (AF3AG).
Messrs. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa (AF3DR) and Adrian Otten (AF3AG) are the Department Dirictor
and the managing Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipionts only in the performance
of their offcial duties its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankt authorizstion.



D. Organization and Management         ...............................   15
E. Reporting and Monitoring  ..................................   iS
F. Estimated Costs and Financing Plan        ............................    16
G. Project Financing ......................................   18
H. Procurement ...............           ........................                   19
I. Disbursements ....................................... 20
J. Accounts and Audits ......................................   21
K. Environmental Inpact .....................................   22
V. BENEFITS JUSIfFICATION AND RISKS               ............. ...............   22
A. Benefits  .............................................   22
B. Risks  ...........................................   23
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .......                           ..........  23
A. Agreements Reached  .       ....................................   23
B. Agreements reached at Negotiations ............................   24
C. Conditions of Effectiveness  ...........         ......................   25
D. Conditions of Disbursement ...........           ......................   26
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
Table 1: Burundian Companies by Sector and Management Type ...................  5
Table 2: Summary of Project Cost .     ....................................   17
Table 3: Project Financing Plan .......................................    8
Table 4: Procurement Method . ......................................   19
Table 5: Disbursements ...........................................   21
ANNEXES
Annex I Declaration de politique sectorielle relative I l'agrobusiness
Appendix 1 Proposed Draft Policy Matrix
Annex 2
Appendix 1 Project Cost Summary
Appendix 2 Summary Accounts by Year
Appendix 3 Financing Plan by Project Component
Appendix 4 Project Components by Year
Annex 3 Procurement Method
Disbursement Table
Annex 4 Agribusiness Development Fund
Potential Demand
Annex 5 Supervision Plan
Annex 6 The Public Agro-Industries Sector
Annex 7 The Private Sector
Annex 8 Key Indicators
Annex 9 Institutional Arrangements
Annex 10 List of Documents in Project File
MAP
IBRD 23199



BUR-UNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:    Republic of Burundi
AmQoun¢:     SDR 2.3 million (US$3.096 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project Description:  The project is designed to accelerate a private sector supply response to the
Government's more liberal policies in the area of agro-processing. Its
objectives are to increase and diversify agricultural exports and induce
greater efficiency in agricultural production, processing and marketing.
The project will include: (i) the privatization of government owned agro-
industries in the tea, sugar, cotton and rice sub-sectors; and (ii) the
establishment of an agribusiness development fund, which will finance
professional training and commercial services to private entrepreneurs and
professional organizations, for market development, on a matching fund
basis.
Benefits and Risks:   The proposed project will complement the recently signed Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC IL' and Private Sector Development Project by
eliciting a supply response in a key sector of the economy. It will improve
the efficiency and viability of existing agro-industries and contribute to
export diversification and private sector development. The mechanisms to
be established under the project for private sector promotion are innovative
in Burundi, but they have been tried successfully in other countries. The
achievement of the project's objectives depends on the success of reforms
which the government is undertaking in the financial sector and of the
privatization policy. External risks include setbacks in the government policy
on national unity that could delay privatization of industries. Any serious
disruption would affect new investments and diminish the return to them.
Estimated Project Cost (US$ million)
Local     Foreign    Total
Public Sector Privatization             0.3        1.5         1.8
Agribusiness Development Fund            1.2       2.1        3.3
Project Administration Unit              0.3       0.4        0.3
Contingencies                           0.3        0.5        0.8
TOTAL Project Cost                      2.1        4.1        6.2



ii
FinaningPlan
Amounts       Percentages
(US$ mill on'
Government                      0.3           4
Private Enterprises             1.4           23
IDA                             3.1           49
Belgium                         0.1           2
EC                              1.2           20
CCCE                            0.1           2
TOTAL                           6.2          100
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
FY           93      94      95      96      97      98       99
Annual       0.2     0.4     0.6     0.7     0.6     0.5    0.1
Cumulative   0.2     0.6     1.2     1.9     2.5     3.0      3.1
;  ¢tKf R=m:       not calculated
MM IBRD 23199



AGRIBUSINESS PROMQTON PROJECT
I. INTROL)UCT, 10
1.1   Bunrwldi is a small landlocked country in Central Africa. Its per capita GDP is about US$210
(1990). With a population of about 5.5 million growing at 3 percent per annum, Burundi has the
second highest population density in Africa (193 persons/square kilometer). Almost 94 percent of
the population lives in mural areas. The country has limited resources other than relatively fertile
agricultural land. Identified minerals include nickel, phosphate, petroleum, vanadium and come
alluvial gold, but their exploitation has not yet been proven to be economically viable.
1.2    Agriculture is the predominant activity, contributing half of GDP, 90 percent of employment
and 90 percent of export earnings. It is largely subsistence oriented. The main export crop is coffee,
which on average accounts for about 80 percent of total exports. Burundi is one of the few African
countries that is self-sufficient in food; per cap a foodcrop production is stable and, at least in the
short term, food security is not an issue. However, seasonal shortages do occur, and serious child
malnutrition can be observed in certain regions. The secondary sector (mining and manufacturing)
is small, accounting for only 14 percent of GDP and 5 percent of exports in 1990. By comparison,
the public sector dominates manufacturing, energy and infrastructure and contributes half of the
country's formal employment. As a landlocked country, Burundi is vulnerable to transportation
problems in neighboring countries. Although progress has been made in recent years to improve
physical infrastructure and to simplify transit fornmalities, transport costs to and from Indian Ocean
ports remain high. Air transport is unreliable and its high cost is a handicap to Burundi's export
competitiveness.
1.3   Since the onset of the Third Republic, which came to power following a military coup in
September 1987, the country has been gradually moving toward a more liberal economic and political
regime. A national policy of reconciliation and unity between the country's major ethnic groups has
been largely successful so far. There have been outbursts of violence in November 1991 and an
aborted coup d'etat preceded the referendum on the democratic constitution in March 1992.
However, none of the disturbances has succeeded in disrupting the national consensus towards
opening up the political system.
1.4   Burundi has been implementing an adjustment program since 1985. During the 1986-90
period, stabilization achievements were affected by world coffee prices. World prices of coffee began
to decline in 1987 and fell on average by 15 percent each year during the period. Burundi's foreign
exchange loss from coffee exports due to this price decline amounted to US$186 million in those five
years. Per capita GDP growth has remained slightly positive despite the coffee decline and there has
been a small but encouraging export response by the private sector, leading to a modest growth in
the total volume of non-coffee exports. Under the adjustment program, stabilization meesures were
introduced and steps taken to bring about stuctural changes: the exchange rate was devalued and has
since been maintained at a competitive level through subsequent small devaluations; most industrial
prices were decontrolled, the tariff structure was rationalized, trade policy was liberalized and
significant budgetary reforms were introduced.
1.5   The adjustment program has not yet stimulated a strong supply response, partly because of
mixed signals given by the government to the private sector and because of rigidities still prevailing
in the public enterprise (PE) sector. Even though the elaborate system of controls regulating private
activity has been eased, the private sector hesitated to undertake productive investments because of
the dominant position of the PE sector. The critical mass of effective reforms needed to elicit a



2
sustainable supply response by the private sector appears to be in place following the negotiation and
approval of the Third Structural Adjustment CredJt (SAC III). Tne government has agreed on an
ambiticus program of PE reform which includes privatization of capital/management of about 70
percent of the government's portfolio.
1.6   The proposed agribusiness promotion r,oject has been designed to help government
implement the reform in agro-industries. It will provide technical expertise to the government for
the privatization of several important PEs (i.e. in tea, cotton, sugar, rice). At tlse same time it will
strengthen and promote private entrepreneurs in agribusiness activities. In keeping with Bank
objectives, this project has been designed in close consultation with other donors to ensure that it
complemented their on-going sector assistance.
1.7   In parallel, policy and fir- ^ing constraints are being tackled with Bank support through a
series of lending operations. The ongoing Agricultural Services Sector Project (Cr. 2024-BU), which
is improving services delivery at farm level, the Small Scale Enterprises Project (SSE/APEX-Credit
1889-BU), and the Coffee Sector Project (Cr. 2123-BU) which are providing funds for investments.
SAC-TI (Cr. 1919-BU) and the Small Scale Enterprise Project (SSE/APEX) have supported
improvements in financial sector policies, including liberalization of interest rates, successful
launching of an auctioii market for Treasury Certificates, and important steps towards rationalizing
monetary and credit policy regulations and instruments. Further reforms in the financial sector will
be supported by the recently signed Private Sector Development Project (Cr 2359-BU). The
problems of the Public Enterprise (PE) sector have begun to be tackled under a Technical Assistance
Project for P._ic Enterprise Reform and Economic Management (Cr. 1795-BU) and the Coffee
Sector Project (Cr. 2123-BU).
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND
2.1    A recent Bank review of the agricultural sector " highlighted the predominant role of
government in the sector and the large inefficiencies of public monopolies as key constraints to a
strong agricultural supply response. In the 1970s and early 1980s many public enterprises and
parastatals were created, each with a de facto monopsony in a key sector. Complex administrative
and currency controls gave the government wide discretionary powers over business activity. rhis
has limited private sector activities to agricultural production and trade, while the public sector has
had a quasi-monopolistic role in the processing and export of primary commodities and
manufacturing, generating half of the country's formal c; iployment. A total of 968 formal private-
sector firms have been identified in a recent study of the Burundi private sector, of which 200 new
enterprises registered in 1991, following simplification of business licensing procedures. About 70
percent are in trade and services and 30 percent in industry. The private business sector is organized
around the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Burundi (CCIB), of which industry, agricultural
and trade associations, are members. CCIB, a private non-profit organization, is now relatively
autonomous, as government's control has been significantly diminished.
1' Private SectorDevelopment in Agriculture: An Agricultural Sector Memorandum, July 1992.



3
A. The Public Agro-lndustries
1. Jrodudton
2.2   Public corporations typically have a turnover and capital investment ten or more times greater
than their private counterparts. Many early public investments were planned for a market equivalent
two or more times Burundi's total consumption. The largest public corporations, in terms of gross
receipts in 1990, are in the coffee, tea, cotton, sugar and rice sub-sectors. In coffee, there is the
Burundi Coffee Compary (BCC), for export marketing, with FBu 9.1 billion of sales (making it the
largest PE in the country); and Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU), for coffee
processing, with FBu 7.25 billion. In tea, there is the Office du The du Burundi (OTB) with FBu
1.4 midlion. In seed-cotton processing, there is the Compagnie de Gerance du Coton (COGERCOM
with FBu 1.1 billion, and in sugar production and procsssing, the Societ6 Sucriere du W.L v
(SOSUMO), with FBu 845 million.  In rice processing there is the Societe regionale de
developpement de l'Imbo (SRDI) with FBu 576 million). These companies are also the chief source
of cash income for some 600,000 farmers growing coffee, tea, cotton or rice, or 60 percent of the
total farming population.
2.3    OTB currently employs about 500 permanent staff and eight expatriates to manage four tea
factories, financed by the EC and the European Investment Bank (EIB) and a fifth factory, CCCE-
financed, which will start operations in 1992. Some 60,000 smallholder farmers provide on average
60 percent of production. The remainder is produced by the tea estates. A feasibility study for a
new factory, Remera, is currently financed by Belgium. COGERCO employs 200 permanent staff
and two expatriates to run a ginning mill, operating at 40 percent capacity and financed by CCCE.
The company provides direct agricultural services to some 20,000 smallholder farmers. COGERCO
is also implementing a CCCE-fnanced cotton development project in the Mosso region. SOSUMO
is the most capital-intensive public agro-industry, financed mainly by loans from African
Development Bank (AfDB), Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA) and the Abu
Dhabi fund, and has assets amounting to a book value of FBu 10,190 million (US$51 million). It
employs 370 permanent local staff and 15 expatriates to run a sugar refinery, which currently
produces 14,000 tons of sugar. SRDI's main activity is the operation and maintenance of 3,350 ha
of irrigation schemes and supply of agricultural services to some 10,000 smallholders farmers. In
addition, SRDI runs a rice mill, buys and processes 80 percent of the 12,000 tons of paddy marketed
in 1991.
2. Status and Perfoiniance
2.4   These corporations generally display similar characteristics with regard to their status and
per,formance. First, they lack managerial autonomy and face chronic political interference. Their
salary structure is patterned after the civil service and bonuses are distributed according to the
position held rather than actual performance. One of the consequences of this system is overstaffing
at the lower level of qualifications, combined with difficulties to attract and maintain qualified
professionals. Second, they have received privileges that bas made it difficult for the private sector
to compete. They continue to receive preferential access to credit; enjoy tax exemptions, including
exonerations on agricultural inputs and, continue to receive substantial investment subsidies and in
some instances operating subsidies. These are to be reduced progressively as part of SAC III. Third,
with the help of foreign aid, they have received modern and technically efficient equipment; however,
this frequently operates below capacity due to difficulties in obtaining inputs and/or in marketing the
output. %jiven the high share of debt finance, these companies usually do not generate profits.
Fourth, operational performance is generally weak. Lack of discipline in timing and collection of



4
the cotton crop, combined with a system of fixed (non-quality rJlated) prices, has been responsible
for stagnating production and declining quality. Similarly in tea, low quality picking and poor
logistics in supplying tea plants and inputs, conibined with a system of fixed prices, has been
resporaible for a noticeable decline in tea quality. In coffee, until recently, higher prices from quality
improvements in processing techniques (fully washed coffee) were not realized due to humid storage
conditions.
2.5   Public Enterprise refonns already undertaken. So far, progress in Public Enterprise reform
has been disappointing. While there is full awareness in the country that public enterprise
performance has been poor, the slow pace of reform reflects the strength of vested interests that
currently control PEs, anxiety over possible loss of employment and the need to avoid the emergence
of a small elite group of private owners and/or a pre-independence dominance by foreign investors.
2.6    Nevertheless, some progress has been made in the agro-industrial sector. The Coffee Sector
Project has supported the government's efforts to progressively open up this important activity to the
private sector. A coffee auction system has been introduced allowing private sector exporters to
compete with the BCC. Furthermore, a management contract with specific peiformance criteria has
been signed by SOSUMO with a private firm; SRDI has lost its rica marketing monopoly and now
competes with some 50 small private hullers; OTB will enter into a performance contract with the
Government in 1992; and seven small companies in the agro-industrial field (a flour mill, a dairy and
four state farms) have ben privatized or liquidated.
B. Private Agribusiness
2.7    As a direct result of substantial progress made recently in simplifying the regulatory
framework, the number of privately held firms in agribusiness has increased markedly. According
to a 1991 survey carried out during project preparation, there are ncw 291 firms in the formal sector
and 279 firms in the informal sector active in this field (see Table below); nearly all of these
enterprises are less than five years old.



Table 1: Burundian Companies by Sector and Management Type
Agribusli.*ss
Garment   Total
Wood/Print             Textile   Resource-   Commerce &
Management Type          Agr/Fish/  Agro-       paper                  Leather   based        Other        Total
Forestry   I'idustry  Laboratory  Chemical  Business  Industries  Businesses   A!;
Public                       17         16           1          3          4          41           50         91
Puiblic 100X         15          7           1          1          2          26           32         58
Mixed ownership       2          9           0          2          2          15           18         33
Private
Formal sector        73         80         35          22         81         291          677        968
Bujumbura            71         60          33         21         80         265          --         --
Interior              2         20          2           1          1          26          --         --
Private
Informal Sector      -          129          -         50        100         279         2498       dm
Bujumbura            --          79          -         30                    109          1668     l7
Interior             --         50         --          20        100         170          83&       10100
All types                    90         225         36         75        185         611         3225       3810
Source: SCEP, USAID formal and informal Sector Reports and mission uWdates and estimates.
See Amex for detailed lists.
2.8    Typically, private agribusinesses are much smaller than parastatals: only 89 firms employ
more than 10 employees or have an annual turnover larger than FBu 25 million (US$0.5 million).
Also, they typically are engaged in areas where parastatals are not present, such as: quinine
plantations; fishing; dairy farming; fruit and vegetable exports; vegetable oil extractions (cotton,
groundnut, palm oil); leather anid furniture making.
2.9     Many of these firms have faced or are facing serious start-up difficulties. In the case of fruit
and vegetable exports, for instance, the most important problems have been (a) lack of capital; (b)
low marketing skills and insufficient knowledge of exports markets; (c) stiff competition with other
African exporters who produce similar products for the same market during the same season; (d) high
transport costs due to high air-freight rates and infrequent flights; and (e) difficulties in contracting
with farmers to produce a steady flow of export-quality produce. In the case of furniture making,
market expansion has been hampered by low quality standards due to inexperience and lack of
craftsmanship. However, while several firms have ceased business, others are being created and the
trend is towards a steady expansion.
2.10   The private sector is represented and assis#'d by the Chamber of Commerce and Industries
of Burundi (CCIB). In the past, CCIB was govem- .nt dominated and focussed on a relatively small
segment of tne business community, mainly the larger enterprises in the capital city. Since 1987,
government influence has diminished. CCIB has expanded its activities and plays a more aggressive
role in representing the interest of the business community; it now has over 2,000 associate members.
Two other institutions provide active support to the private sector: the Export Promotion Service
(SAE) in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, created in 1990 with EC support; and the Agency
for Promoting Foreign Trade (APEE), created in 1991 and currently assisted by the USAID-financed
Burundi Enterprise Support and Training Project (BEST). Pinally, numerous private voluntary
organizations are being created in Burundi; they range from NGO induced groups to professional
farmer organizations and export associations. The largest of these associations, I'Association pour



6
Ic developpement agro-pastoral (ADAP), represents a group of modern *Lrmers organized to promote
mixed dairy farming in rural areas.
III. GOVJiRNMENT'S POLICY IN A3RICULTURE AND AGRIBUSINESS
A. Past Policies and Perfortance
3.1    As part of the government structural adjustment program, a new agricultural sector policy
was designed in 1988. The new approach signaled a shift in the role of government from producer
and processor (coffee, tea, cotton, suigar, rice and palm oil) to one e(  regulator and promoter;
emphasized the development of the private sector an4 cooperatives by Amplifying the regulatory
framework constraining them; and initiated a change in extension services from top-down and
coercive to voluntary and participatory. Finally, given the deteriorating environment and continued
high population growth rates, preparation of an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) was launched and
a more active natural resources management policy designed.
3.2   Progress in implementing these policies has been gradual and uneven, but has nevertheless
given modestly satisfactory results. In spite of having to cope with a decline in world market prices
of about 60 percent for coffee, its key export crop, economic growth has slightly exceeded population
growth in the past five years. This was mainly achieved by (a) sensible macro-economic policies,
including a series of devaluations of the local currency, which largely shieW -d domestic producers
from coffee price declines in nominal terms; (b) past investments in coffee processing which enabled
the country to improve the quality of its coffee exports and achieve relatively better export prices;
and (c) good progress in simplifying the regulatory framework which, coupled with an improving
business climate, led to ar. expansion of private sector activities in trade and processing.
3.3   Progress is also be;uag made in reorganizing agricultural services and developing actions to
protect the environment. Under the IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2024-BU), the
Regional Development Company (RDC) structure has been replaced by a decentralized extension
service system; staffing has been streamlined and budget aliocations made more transparent. Also,
the top-down approach to extension is changing. Under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
H1D the government will extend the liberalization policy to the large number of smallholder farmers
in rural areas. It will eliminate administrative practices that have regulated export crop cultivation
and the use of inputs. An EAP is now being elaborated and will be the basis for a Natural Resources
Management project, which is now under preparation.
3.4   Progress, however, has been slow or unsatisfact.ory in two areas: in the reform and
privatization of public enterprise and in the broadening of priv3te sector activities in processing and
exports. Progress in the two areas is closely linked. The private sector cannot compete in areas
where public enterprises dominate the market, as it has been denied the tax and duty privileges, as
well as the preferential credit access and public sector subsidies which the PEs have enjoyed so far.
B. The New Policy
3.5    As a key feature of the third phase of its adjustment program, the government has decided
to accelerate both the PE reform program and the liberalization of private sector activities. Among
the specific measures under SAC III and the Private Sector Development Project, the following are
particularly relevant for the agribusiness sector: (i) the introduction of an open general licensing



7
system and of a new foreign exchange system that balances the supply of, and demand for, foreign
exchange; (ii) the complete revision of the commercial code and related business enterprises laws;
(iii) progressive liberql1zation of invisibles; (iv) liberalization of the labor code to promote
employment generation through more flexible hiring and firing regulations; (v) simplification of air-
transport regulations; (vi) reform of the tax cede and reduction in appropriate rates to encourage
private investment; and (vii) completion of the tariff reform to reduce effective protection.
3.6    Given the current weight of the public sector in agribusiness, implementation of the private
sector development policy is directly linked to the privatization of public enterprises.  The
government which had initially decided to limit privatization of key agro-industries to management
only is now committed to privatization uf ownership or leasing of assets. The government policy on
agribusiness, which is detailed in a draft Letter of Agribusiness Development Policy and the annexed
matrix of reforms (Annex 1) signed by the Government. It includes the following measures: (i)
action plan and timetable for privatization of OTB, COGERCO, SOSUMO and SRDI; (ii) promotion
of private sector investment in subsectors that have been traditionally a public monopoly while placing
a moratorium on new public investments (e.g. the tea sector and the extension of palm oil processing
facilities in Rumonge); (iii) allowing mixed-capital agro-industries to set producer prices and elect
their markets and control their extension system; and (iv) public investment in mixed-capital agro-
industries will be strictly limited to what is necessary to maintain the current production level (para.
6.2(b)).
3.7    The Government has formally adopted a privatization strategy with the objectives of: (i)
improving the performance of enterprises through increased management efficiency; (ii) strengthening
market forces; and (iii) protecting farmers from de facto monopolies. The strategy attempts to
balance financial ana efficiency objectives with socio-political concerns by discouraging two extreme
situations: on the one hand, excessive dispersion of ownership which could make an enterprise
difficult to manage, and on the other hand, pre-independence corporate arrangements with a foreign
parent company accumulating profits by supplying expensive equipment, spare parts and technical
assistance to its local subsidiary.
3.8    According to the recently promulgated law on the Privatization of Public Eniterprises (August
1991), the responsibility for overseeing the privatization process has been given to an Interministerial
Committee for Privatization (ICP), which is chaired by the Minister of Finance and composed of
members appointed by decree. The ICP's main role is to review privatization proposals and to
recommend decisions to Govermnent. To accomplish its tasks the ICP is assisted by the Public
Enterprise Reform Office (Service Charge des Entreprises publiques-SCEP) which provides
administrative support. For each individual privatization proposal to be considered by the ICP, an
ad-hoc Technical Evaluation Commission (TEC) is appointed by the President of the Republic to
carry out the necessary studies and implement privatization. The TEC, in turn, may recruit outside
expertise to assist in the preparation of the proposals.
3.9    The SCEP is being completely re,iructured to become a small, pluridisciplinary consulting
firm and the only civil service employee will be the Chief of the unit who will provide the bridge
between the technical work to be done by the unit and the authorities. All other recruits will have
fixed term contracts (one year renewable) with detailed terms of reference. The unit will consist of
international and local experts in the legal, auditing and financial analysis and management fields and
will be supported by a computer programmer. The staffing will be entirely contracted out through
a competitive bidding process to a single international consulting firm to ensure that if there are
problems with performance of the team the firm will be committed to finding qualified replacements.



8
There will be three senior experts, a financial analyst, a management specialist and a legal specialist
who will ensure technical quality control over the other members of the unit.
3.10   These reforms provide the basis on which the proposed project has been built. With the
decisions for PE reform taken in principle, assistance is required to Implement the reforms for
specific public enterprises. Also, with the agreement on further liberalization of the regulatory
framework, care should be taken that the new opportunities are not exclusively seized by the few
larger and well established private finns, but will be open to the broadest possible strata of society,
including the micro-enterprises that have difficult access to credit and market information and that
would not be reached by current private sector assistance.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Justification
4.1    The project is designed to accelerate a private sector supply-response to the government's
more liberal policies in the area of agro-processing, as described above. Its objectives are to increase
and diversify agricultural exports and induce greater efficiency in agricultural production, processing
and marketing, by supporting the government's efforts to privatize publicly held agro-industries and
by assisting small private entrepreneurs to establish themselves and develop agribusinesses. The
project incorporates major findings of the agricultural sector memorandum. By providing technical
and financial support to private initiatives in agro-industries, a key growth sector in Burundi, it will
help unleash entrepreneurial talents and develop an incipient private sector culture. The political
sensitivity of privatization in a key sector where smallholder producers are involved and the
consequent need of the government to ensure that the process is transparent, justifies IDA's
coordinating role with respect to the necessary technical assistance.
4.2    The project will be innovative as it will provide new types of support services to small private
agribusinesses to help them overcome obstacles in their management capability. Grant funds that pay
half the cost of professional services for such purposes have been successfully introduced in India and
Indonesia with Bank support. A similar exporter assistance scheme is currently being introduced in
Kenya under the ongoing Export Development Project. Matching funds were strongly recommended
by a 1990 PRE working paper titled How Support Services Can Expand Manufactured Exports. The
project will complement services currently provided to medium-scale enterprises by IFC's African
Project Development Facility (APDF) by focussing on micro-enterprises. Project preparation also
addressed the issue of lack of capital financing for small firms through the feasibility study of a local
investment company. The creation of the company is now underway in partnership with a NGO-
sponsored international investraent company, the International Investment Development Company
(SIDI).
B.  rioect Desciptn
4.3     The project will include two components: the privatization of publicly held agro-industries
and assistance to small private entrepreneurs. The privatization component will focus on four
enterprises: OTB (tea production and processing); COGERCO (seed-cotton production and ginning);
SOSUMO (sugar production and processing) and SRDI (rice production and processing) and will
include the provision of: (i) consulting services in investment banking for preparation of privatization
and conclusion of leasing of assets and sale of shares; and (ii) training activities to prepare employees



9
for privatization. The assistance to private enterprises component will consist in the creation of an
agribusiness development fund which will share up to half of the cost of marketing and productivity
improvement activities with eligible private entrepreneurs and their professional associations.
4.4   The project will be implemented over a five year period and is estimated to cost FBu 1,246
million (US$6.2 million). A number of bilateral donors have expressed interest in promoting
privatization and in parallel-financing of a share of the project cost by providing technical assistance
to support privatization of public agro-industries and support to private initiative in agribusiness.
IDA will coordinate project activities. Its share in the financing of project costs will be limited to
US$3.096 million or 49.7 percent of total (para. 4.37).
C. Detailed Features
1. Privatization of Publicly held Agro-Industries
(a) The Privatization Process
4.5    Under the privatization legal framework, the government has to choose between three basic
privatization approaches: (a) privatization of management through contracts in which private
companies are paid to manage public-owned assets; (b) privatization of management through leasing
arrangements or concessions in which a private company pays the government for the use of public
owned assets; and (c) privatization of ownership of the company.
4.6   The Government is committed to withdraw progressively from the productive sectorr to make
room for private investors in order to improve profitability through more effective management.
Public agro-industries, however, present a specific challenge as they are dealing with and providing
income to ten of thousands of smallholder farmers. Therefore, the Government favors a progressive
and controlled transfer from public to private ownership consistent with on-going development
projects supporting the agro-industries targeted by the proposed project. The Government is
convinced that hasty decisions on those socially sensitive issues could stall or even derail the ongoing
democratization of Burundi institations. As a result, management or performance contracts are
considered as a first, although transitional, step toward other forms of privatization. For the public
agro-industries targeted by the project, performance or management contracts will be concluded in
1992. SOSUMO management contract with a private foreign firm has been approved in March 1992;
OTB performance contract is currently under review by the Government; and COGERCO's current
incentive system, which is based on actual performance, will be used as the basis for a formal
performance contract.
4.7   In the coffee sector, leasing of public assets is currently under experimentation for the
management of coffee washing stations (SOGESTAL) and coffee hulling factories (SODECO). Some
of the management companies already have majority private ownership and it is expected that they
will be fully privatized in the future. This mode of privatization will be considered, along with
privatization of ownership, during the preparation of privatization. In any case, industrial estates (tea
and sugar) will be subject to long term leases.
4.8   For the divestiture of ownership the government favors a process which will promote
ownership among domestic investors. The capital of the company may be shared among the
following partners: (i) a core investor who will be the largest shareholder and will manage the
company; (ii) other private companies involved up-stream and down-stream in the sub-sector (ocal



10
suppliers, exporters, etc); and (iii) small shareholders (farmers, farmers' organizations, employees,
private citizens). Selection of the core investor will be, normally, the first phase of the process and
will require changing the status of the company into a mixed capital company (SEM). The core
investor will bring to the company know-how and investments to increase local value-added. Criteria
for the selection of the core investor will include: (i) proposals on how to u?grade the quality and
career opportunities of employees through the introduction of a transparent incentive system; (ii)
proposals for organizing relations with producers; and (iii) an investment plan to develop value added
either locally or abroad. The bidding documents will spell out obligations regarding the relations
between the company and smallholder farmers such as contractual arrangements on marketing,
incentives and input supply and promotion of farmer organizations. The company will have fll
control over the organization of agricultural extension. It could contract with the public extension
services or private operators or manage its own extension.
4.9    The second phase of the process will involve the offering of shares to local firms currently
doing business with the enterprise being privatized. The third phase, sales of shares to the
employees, to the farmers and to the general public, will only be possible on a large scale once a
secondary market for shares has been established. In this case it could be possible to implement the
three phases simultaneously.
4.10   The project will assist the government in the privatization of the most important agro-
industries, except those in the coffee sector which are addressed by the on-going Coffee Sector
Project (Cr. 2123-BU). The project will provide consulting services in investment banking to the
institutions set out in the privatization law, including the ICP, SCEP and TEC. Given the importance
of socio-economic issues related to the relations of the companies with smallholder farmers, and the
government resolution to complete the preparatory work before the creation of TEC to speed up
implementation of privatization, the technical assistance will be delivered in two phases. The first
phase will be the preparation of privatization, which will design detailed proposals on the
privatization mechanism, including the proposed contractual covenants related to the future relations
of the company with smallholder farmers. This phase will be implemented by the technical ministries
supervising the targeted enterprises; the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL) for OTB,
COGERCO and SRDI, and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) for SOSUMO at the
request and under the authority of the iCP, and will be financed by the donors already involved in
the companies. The second phase will be the support to the TEC for the actual implementation of
privatization (selection of the core investor, organization of public offering of shares). This assistance
will be financed by IDA.
(b) Privatization of OTB (Burundi Tea Company)
4.11   The privatization program was designed in close cooperation with OTB's management and
donors involved in the tea subsector (the EC, Belgium and CCCE). The objectives of the program
are to break up the de facto monopoly of OTB in the sector and to maximize utilization of existing
agricultural and industrial investments financed by the government with the support of donors,
through better management of industrial tea estates; development of contractual relations with
smallholder farmers; reduction of processing costs; efficient management of the tea factories; and
improved marketing.
4.12   The first step of the program will be the implementation of a performance contract as part
of the on-going EC-financed Medium-Term Tea Development Program. Key features of the system
are: (i) the introduction of compensation for tea pickers and OTB staff based on productivity and
financial performance; (ii) creation of tea-growers associations to improve the organization of



it
harvesting and collection operations; (iii) rehabilitation or reconversion of tea plantations established
in marginal areas; and (iv) elimination of subsidies for fertilizers.
4.13   The second step will be the privatization of the company. The method of privatization
(management companies, core investor approach) will be decided upon in December 1993, after
completion of the preparation phase. The preparation of privatization will be guided by the following
considerations: (i) the creation of any new factory will be left to private initiative; (ii) the study will
compare privatization of OTB as a whole with privatization of each tea factory, to promote
competition in the sector; (iii) the role of OTB's central service will be modified and possibly
restricted to regulatory functions and quality control; (iv) criteria for the selection of the core investor
will include its ability to develop local value-added and capture new markets and to develop
contractual relations with smallholder farmers; and (v) the study will address land tenure issues on
industrial plantations.
4.14   From a social point of view, privatization of OTB implies both opportunities and risks for
small farmers and existing personnel as well. Smallholders in prime producing areas could earn
substantially more by organizing production and marketing better if they were remunerated
accordingly. On the other hand, those farmers in areas too distant from factories or on poor soils
would likely lose revenue since transportation costs may be too high. Privatization will not
necessarily imply a reduction in the number of jobs, but it will imply turnover based on competence.
4.15   The proposed project will finance 32 staff-weeks of international and local consultants for the
preparation phase. The launching of the recruitment procedure for the consultant's services for the
preparatory work for the privatization will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.3 (d)). In addition,
the project will finance 33 staff weeks of consultants to support the TEC in the implementation of
privatization. It was agreed during negotiations that the TEC will be established in March 1994 (para
6.2 (a) (ii)), and at least 10 percent of the capital of OTB will be put on sale no later than November
1994 (para. 6.2(a)(iii)).
(c) Privatization of COGERCO
4.16   COGERCO was one of the first public enterprises to possess an incentive system based on
technical and financial performance for both local and expatriate personnel. This system will be used
as the basis for a formal performance contract to be signed between the company and Government
in 1992, which will include the following measures: (i) introduction of a producer price based on
quality; (ii) reduction of extension costs through the promotion of farmers' organizations; (iii) transfer
on a pilot basis of marketing, input distribution and credit recovery to farmers' organizations; (iv)
implementation of a cost control system for each activity; (v) development of an incentive package
that stimulates production and resolves ambiguities in land tenr.e practices for resettled lands; and
(vi) restructuring of the company's accounts including a more realistic assessment of the value of its
assets and separate accounting for the rural development project in the Mosso province.
4.17   Project preparation identified the core investor system as the privatization method most likely
to balance the interests of the Burundian private sector with those of potential foreign partners. The
capital of the company will be privatized in 1994. For technical and efficiency reasons, the company
will be privatized as a unit rather than separated between industrial and extension activities. The
entity to be privatized will include the ginning factories, commercial operations and the unit working
with cotton producers in the central Imbo plain (responsible for extension, input supply, credit,
farmers' organization). The company will eventually de. elop contractual arrangements for the
delivery of extension services by public or private extension institutions. Promoting cotton cultivation



12
in Mosso province, which is in its start-up phase, will not fall under the company mandate and will
continue to be financed by the Mosso Cotton Development Project assisted by the CCCE. However,
COGERCO will continue to implement the Mosso project through a management contract.
4.18   The project will finance 15 staff weeks of international and local consultants to assist the
preparation of privatization. It was agreed during negotiations that the terms of reference of the
consultants will include the design of specific measures to enable farmers to obtain freehold title on
Government owned property (para. 6.2(e)). Launching of the recruitment procedure for the
consultants services for preparation will be condition of effectiveness (para. 6.3 (d)). The project will
also finance 15 staff-weeks of consultants services to assist the TEC in the implementation of
privatization. It was agreed during negotiations that the TEC will be established by January 1994
(para 6.2 (a) (ii)), and that at least 10 percent of COGERCO's capital will be offered to private
investors before August 1994 (para. 6.2 (a)(iii)).
(d) Privatization of SOSUMO
4.19   The company's production objectives for 1991 (14000 T of sugar) as agreed with the
Government and the Bank were met with the help of Belgian-financed technical assistance. The
factory operates at 70 percent of full capacity and the company's profitability is dependent on its
capacity to develop the local market, capture export markets and reduce its production costs. The
company, which has been saddled with a heavy debt resulting from highly inflated investment costs
is currently operating on a sunk-cost basis. Return to full-cost operation will be possible only after
a re-evaluation of company assets and a corresponding reduction in its liabilities. Transfer of the
operation of the company from foreign technical advisors to local professionals has been impaired
by the lack of financial incentives to attract and maintain qualified Burundian staff in the Mosso area,
a remote part of the country. These issues were addressed during a donor's meeting (AfDB,
Belgium, CCCE and IDA) held in February 1992, which reviewed the implementation of the
company's action-plan and proposed a strategy for privatization. The first phase of this strategy, now
completed, is the transformation of the previous technical assistance contract into a one-year
management contract. The management contract is financed in part by Belgian aid and includes an
incentive system, for both expatriate and local personnel, based on specific performance targets. The
implementation of the system is expected to increase the resale value of the company. In a second
phase (1993), the company will be transformed into a mixed capital company and the government has
decided to start selling 10 percent of capital in 1993 (para. 6.2 (a)(ii)) out of the 70 percent which
will be offered to private investors. The project will finance 15 staff-weeks of international and local
consultants for preparation of privatization. In addition, the project will finance 29 staff-weeks of
consultants to assist the TEC in the implementation of privatization. Launching of the recruitment
procedure for the consultant services and establishment of the TEC for SOSTTMO will be conditions
of effectiveness (para. 6.3(a)).
(e) Reorganization and Privatization of Imbo Reional Development Company (SRI)) (rice
4.20 The Imbo RDC will be reorganized along the same principles guiding the on-going
reorganization of the Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs: (i) separation of commercial and industrial
activities from agricultural support services activities; (ii) privatization of industrial and commercial
activities; and (iii) integration of public service functions into the civil service or delegation to
farmers' associations. The rice mill will be leased, possibly to farmers' organizations or auctioned
off in April 1994 (para. 6.2(a)(iv)). A contract for the management of the existing irrigation network
will include the progressive transfer of its maintenance and operation to users' groups along the
model successfully experimented in 8 villages in the Imbo plain. The project will finance 15 staff



13
weeks of international and local consultants to reorganize the RDC and prepare the privatization of
the rice mill and 9 staff weeks to assist the TEC. The launching of the recruitment procedure for the
consultant services will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.3(d)).
(f) Special Training Program
4.21   A qualified, motivated and streamlined staff will be an asset for companies under
privatization. During the transition period, a special training and information program (US$1.2
million) will help foster a positive attitude among the employees of the companies and will keep to
a minimum possible disruption in services to smallholder farmers. The project will finance seminars
on management and on privatization, study trips in African countries involved in privatization
programs and reconversion training packages for laid-off personnel. Reconversion training packages
will be managed by the Reconversion Program for Redundant Public Sector Employees established
by the government under the Third Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program. The preparation
of a detailed training and reconversion program acceptable to IDA will be a condition of disbursement
for this component (para. 6.4(a)).
2. Assistance to Private Entrepreneurs
Agribusiness Develooment Fund
4.22   Years of isolation have limited private enterprises' exposure to international business
practices. Past policies restricting travel, limiting participation in the import-export trade and tightly
circumscribing foreign financial transactions resulted in little outside experience and contacts for local
private entrepreneurs. They also suffer from poor information services (e.g. lack of price
information, inability to purchase from catalogs), and expensive telecommunications, airfares and
freight rates. Furthermore, management expertise is weak: product quality is poor, accounting
systems inadequate and cost analysis is rare. Existing support services projects are trying to address
these shortcomings by providing advisory services on accounting, monitoring and technical
troubleshooting. Being free of charge, these services are in limited supply and for this reason, not
readily accessible to small entrepreneurs. Some entrepreneurs have already taken the initiative to fill
this gap by recruiting at their own expense the national and international expertise they deem
aDpropriate.  The project's Agribusiness Development Fund will finance entrepreneurship
c,.velopment training seminars and a matching fund to finance management consulting, market
prospection, sales promotion and training activities on a cost sharing basis.
4.23   Entrepreneurship development seminars will seek to reinforce analytical skills through
participation and teamwork during which the entrepreneurs learn to analyze their strengths and
weaknesses and to formulate a plan of action. The project will organize 10 two-week seminars with
the support of specialized consultants.
4.24   The objective of the 50:50 matching fund is to motivate and assist individual firms and
professional associations or group of firms in the expansion of their business. The fund will finance
commercial services, including travel, for private firms that invest in production, processing and/or
trade of L ith traditional and non-traditional agricultural exports and of import-substitution products.
Only private firms will be eligible to apply. Advance approval will be subject to the presentation of
a development plan comprising: (i) a description of the target market, (ii) measures needed to
develop appropriate products or to adapt existing ones to it; and (iii) a marketing plan. Any activity
will be eligible, which would be expected to generate over a period of five years, incremental value-
added of 10 times the value of the advance. Typical expenditure categories eligible for cost sharing



14
will include: (i) product research and development; (ii) market analysis and prospection; (iii) sourcing
and testing of equipment and inputs; (iv) on-the-job and short-term training; (v) organization of and
training for product adaptation; (vi) studies to improve storage, packaging, containerization and
transportation; (vii) development of grading, standard definition, quality control; (viii) advertizing
and promotion; (ix) studies and training on improved efficiency of production and collection,
including contracts between exporters and smallholder farmers; (x) studies for acquisition of existing
public assets, including preparation of loan requests, preparation of bid proposals for lease,
lease/purchase management or purchase contracts; (xi) newsletters, trip reports prepared by local
professional organizations, or their acquisition and circulation of professional journals and newsletters
published abroad; (xii) development of improved (e.g. computerized) accounting; (xiii) visits to major
potential clients; (xiv) establishment of overseas operations (co-funding of installation costs, not
operating costs). The following expenditure categories will be excluded: (i) capital and operating
costs of a company or NGO, including equipment and vehicles (eligible companies could apply
separately for APEX or other loans for these items); and, (ii) membership drives for professional
organizations.
4.25    The project will consciously seek out women entrepreneurs as clients and partners with the
Fund. To that effect, the FMA will establish and maintain a database of women-entrepreneurs who
should receive priority in training. It will ensure that the target group reflects at least twice the
number of women entrepreneurs, which is only 7 percent of the total at present. By year five of the
project the proportion of women beneficiaries should have increased to at least 15-20 percent of the
total. Specific encouragement will also be given to those who, due to social barriers in the past, had
less opportunity for formal education and business participation.
4.26   To avoid the creation of a new institution, the fund will be managed by a Fund Management
Agency (FMA), an existing Burundian commercial or financial agency selected by the Government
and acceptable to IDA, which will: (i) identify potential clients; (ii) maintain a data bank with a list
of available services, accredited providers and past clients; (iii) help the client enterprise to prepare
export or import substitution development plans; (iv) agree with the enterprise on a development
program; (v) fund technical and consultants services and travel required to achieve the development
objectives of the enterprise; and (vi) implement the cost recovery mechanism. The FMA will be
assisted, over the project period, by 6 staff-months of short term consultancy from a senior marketing
expert. The terms of reference of the consultant will contain provisions to transfer skills, know-how
and responsibilities to his local counterpart. Operation of the fund will be supervised by a Steering
Committee.
4.27   The project will finance: commercial services and training under the matching-fund; the
management contract for the Fund; environment assessment studies; and the training seminars. The
matching-fund will finance up to 50 percent of actual expenses on commercial service fees and on
travel (ess than business class). Travel per diem will be reimbursed at a maximum of 25 percent
of the UNDP per diem for the location visited. Cost-sharing of the first advance will be on a 50:50
basis. It was agreed during negotiations that cost recovery will be applied on advances for
commercial services to individual firms (para 6.2 (g)). The amount of the advance will be repaid
over a maximum period of five years, including a one year grace period. In addition progressive
cost-recovery of the Fund's operating costs would be introduced in March 1994. The aggregate
outstanding amount commercial services financing to any recipient will not exceed the equivalent of
US$50,000 (revolving fund). Cost recovery will not apply to expenses for professional training,
organized locally, by professional associations. The aggregate amount of local training grants to any
association will not exceed US$50,000. Agreement on the Statement of Policies and Operating
Procedures of the fund, including annual review, annual audits and criteria for mid-term review of



15
the fund was reached at negotiations (para 6.2 (f)) (Annex 4). They will serve as the basis for the
preparation of the Fund Agreement between the Government and the Fund Management Agency
(FMA). The recruitment of an independent agency for the management of the fund and actual
ext;cution of the Fund Agreement will be conditions of disbursement for th.is component (para. 6.5
(a)).
D. Organization and Management
4.28   Privatization of Public Enterprises. This component will be implemented by the institutions
identified under the privatization law, including the ICP, SCEP, and TEC. Preparatory work for
privatization will be executed on behalf of ICP by the technical ministries supervising the enterprise
concerned; MOAL for OTB, COGERCO and SRDI; and MCI for SOSUMO. The ministries will
be assisted by specialized consulting firms recruited by the Project Administrator, following IDA
procedures. Once the Government has decided on th, privatization mechanism proposed by the
consultants, the TECs wIll implement privatization with the assistance of experienced consulting firms
recruited by SCEP in its quality of president of the TECs. Completion of the reorganization of SCEP
will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.3(c)).
4.29   Agribusiness Development Fund. To avoid the proliferation of institutions the Fund will be
managed by an existing commercial or financial Burundian institution (the FMA) assisted by an
international consultant (para. 4.26). The FMA, which will be selected by the PA and, acceptable
to IDA, wil establish a small unit, dedicated to the management of the Fund (FMU), staffed with
a qualified and experienced business development specialist and secretary/bookkeeper. . Operation
of the Fund will be guided by a Fund agreement between the Government and the FMA which will,
inter alia, include: (i) the terms and conditions on which FMA should award local training/grants and
commercial services financing; (ii) the responsibility of the FMA award; (iii) introduction of cost
recovery mechanisms for operating costs by March 1994; (iv) resources which will be made available
to the FMA for the management of the Fund; (v) accounting and auditing procedures of the FMU.
A Steering Committee composed of representatives of the technical ministries and of the private
sector will supervise the implementation of the Fund Agreement.
4.30   Proiect Administration. The project will be administered by a local consultant recruited for
the duration of the project, by and under the direct authority of the Minister of Agriculture and
Livestock (MOAL) and assisted by a senior local accountant and a secretary. The consultant will act
as the Project Administrator (PA) and will be responsible for procurement of goods and services,
including the (i) recruitment of technical assistance to MOAL and MCI for the preparation of
privatization process; (ii) monitoring of FMA as secretary of the Steering Committee (para. 4.29);
(iii) consolidation of the project's accotints; and (iv) reporting and coordinating of PCR preparation.
Terms of reference for the recruitment of the PA team have been agreed upon during negotiations
(para. 6.2 (O)). The recruitment of the PA and his assistants, with qualifications, experience and
terms of employment satisfactory to the Association will be a condition of credit effectiveness. (para.
6.3 (b)).
E. Reporting and Monitoring
4.31   Reports on project implementation, summarizing progress achieved, difficulties encountered,
and changes or adjustments made, will be submitted quarterly by the PA. Agreement on procedures
concerning project reporting and monitoring were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.2 (i).



16
4.32   Supevsion. The supervision of thd proposed project is expected to be staff-intensive, given
the lack of experience in Burundi with this kind of project. Supervision of the proposed project is
expected to absorb 20 sw in FY93, and 15 sw from FY94 to FY97 (Annex 5). The privatization
component will, as often as possible, be supervised jointly with SAC III. The Project Administrator
will organize once a year a donors' meeting to ensure consistency between donor interventions in
support of the private sector. Agreement on the organization of such annual meetings was reached
at negotiations (para. 6.2 (j).
4.33   Mid-Term Review.  Given the pilot nature of the project and in order to assess the
effectiveness of the implementation arrangements, a mid-term review of project progress and
implementation will be undertaken about eighteen months after credit effectiveness (March 1994).
The review will associate the government and the donors involved in the parallel financing of the
project. It will review project progress with respect to: (i) implementation of the privatization
program; and (ii) activities and impact of the Agribusiness Development Fund. The privatization
program will be assessed against the targets of the policy matrix. The review of the Agribusiness
Development Fund will consider the following criteria : number of firms contacted; number of
applications; amounts disbursed; number of professional organizations involved; number of women
entrepreneurs involved; the impact on incremental export or local value added; and performance of
the cost recovery mechanism. The review will also assess the feasibility of transferring management
of the Fund to a professional organization funded by voluntary participation from the beneficiaries.
Agreement was reached at negotiations on the terms of reference of the mid-term review (para.
6.2(k)).
4.34 A Project Completion Report, the content and format of which will be agreed upon with IDA,
will be submitted within six months after the closing date of September 30, 1998. The Project
Administrator will prepare this PCR in close cooperation with SCEP and the Agribitsiness Fund,
which will also provide input to the PCR exercise.
F. Estimated Costs and Fina.ing..PLj
4.35   Total project cost has been estimated at FBu 1,246 million or US$6.2 million equivalent, of
which FBu 832 million or US$4.2 million equivalent (67 percent) will be in foreign exchange. Base
costs estimates reflect March 1992 prices. Taxes have been estimated at FBu 118 million or US$0.6
million, about 9 percent of total project costs. Summaries of project costs and the financing plan are
given in the tables below:



17
BURUNDI
Agribusiness PROMOTION PROJECT
TIbIa2: Summary of Project Cost 1L
Local        Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign    Total       Foreign
as X of
Total
fBU thousands                         USS thousands
Privatization Preparation
OTS                                   3500         29200          32100         17         146        164         89
COGERCO                               1750         16800          18550          9          84         93         91
SOS014                                 700         17950          18650          4          90         93         96
SRDI                                  2100         16000          18100         10          80         90         88
Training                             40800        163200         204000        204         816      1,020         s0
Sub-Total                                     48850        243150        292000         244       1,216      1,460         83
Privatization Implementation
TEC OTO                               5600         24350          29950         28         122        150         81
TEC COGERCO                           2100         15150          17250         11          76         86         88
TEC SOSUMO                            5600         19750          25350         28          99        127         78
TEC SRDI                              2100          6475           8575         11          32         43         76
Sub-Total                                     15400         65725         81125          77         329        406         81
Agribusiness Development Fund
Matching Fund                       184500        296000         480500        923       1,48       2,402         62
Training                             20000         60000          80000        100         30u        400         75
Management Unit                      34515         60355          94870        173         302        474         64
Sub-Total                                    239015        416355        655370       1,195      2,082       3,277         64
Proj et Administratfon                        59270          7380         66650         296          37        333         11
TOTAL Basetine Costs                         362535        732610       1095145       1,813      3,663       5,476         67
Physical Contingencies                        11965         37581         49546          60         188        248         75
Price Contingencies                           39516         62013         101529        198         310        508         61
TOTAL Project Cost                           414016        832203       1246219       2,070      4,161       6.231         67
of which taxes                      118187                       118187        590                    590
]/  Totals may not ad  up Ma to rounding.
4.36    Physical contingencies varying from 5 to 10 percent have been applied to selected categories
to reflect uncertainties regarding detailed quantities and possible design modifications. Price
contingencies have been calculated for local and foreign exchange costs on the basis of a projected
inflation rate of 4 percent a year.



18
G. Project Financing
Table 3: Project Financing Plan
(USS miltion)
IDA   Pr!-  GOB  Bel-  CCCE  EC    Total  X of
vate        giun                       Total
Assistance to          1.5   0.0  0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2    2.1         34
privatization
Agribusiness           1.4   1.4  0.07  C.0   0.0   0.8    3.7         60
Developmen. Fund
Project Administration  0.1   0.0  0.03  0.0   0.0   0.2    0.4         6
TOTAL                  3.1   1.4  0.3   0.1   0.1   1.2    6.2    100
X                     49.7  22.9  4.4   1.6   1.6  19.8  100.0
4.37   The proposed IDA credit to the government of US$3.096 million will finance 49.7 percent
of total costs. Financing will include: vehicle and equipment, training, technical assistance to the
TECs and for preparation of privatization of SRDI, 30 percent of total expenses eligible under the
matching fund and part of incremental operating costs. The private sector will finance 50 percent
of the matching fund, and will progressively support the incremental operating costs of the promotion
fund. Financing of the technical assistance to preparation of privatization will be shared as follows:
OTB by the EC; COGERCO by the CCCE and SOSUMO by Belgium. The EC will finance 20
percent of the matching fund, technical assistance to the Agribusiness Development Fund and part
of incremental operating costs. The Government will finance 4 percent of total costs which will
cover part of training and incremental operating costs.



19
H. Procurement
4.38    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 4: Procurement Method
Project Etement                     ICe          LCB             Other            N.B.F.        TOTAL
1. Vehicles, Equipment                           .03                                              .03
(.03)                                            (.03)
2. Consultancies                                                   .7(a)            .9(b)        1.6
(.7)                          (.7)
3. Training grants and                                            2.7                            2.7
advances for commercial                                           (.8)                           (.8)
services
4. Training                                                       1.6(c)                         1.5
(1.3)                         (1.3)
5. Incremental operating                                            .4                            .4
costs                                                             (.3)                           (.3)
TOTAL                                            .03              5.3               .9           6.2
(.03)            (3.1)                          (3.1)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the credit.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
(a)     Services should be procure. in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:  Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by th, World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C.,
August 1981).
(b)     Co-financed in parallel by Belgium, CCCE, and the EC.
(c)     Selective international and local competitive bidding.
4.39    Vehicles and computer hardware office equipment (US$0.03 million) will be procured through
LCB. Contracts for office supplies as well as spare parts for vehicles and computers, estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or less per contract may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$200,000 be procured under contract awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under IDA guidelines.t Items or group of items
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2,000 or less per contract may, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$100,000, be procured off-the-shelf through direct contracting. The selection of
consultants financed by IDA (technical assistance to privatization, US$0.6 million and environmental
studies, US$0.1 million) will be in accordance with IDA guidelines. Terms of reference,
qualifications, conditions of employment and contracts for consulting services will be subject to prior
approval by IDA. However, recruitment of cot sultants financed by Belgium, CCCE and the EC will
be in accordance with their respective proced ires. Technical assistance to privatization will be
gr.iuped into four contracts: (i) to TECs and SRDI (US$0.6 million), in accordance with IDA
Guidelines; (ii) to OTB (US$0.2 million), in accordance with EC procedures; (iii) to COGERCO (0.1
million) according to CCCE procedures; and (iv) to SOSUMO (US$0.1 million), in accordance with
the AGCD procedures. Procurement of cost-shared management services under the Agribusiness
I "Guidelines for the Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits". May 1985.



20
Promotion Fund will be done by the beneficiary Individual firms and professional organizations.
Procurement for training related to the preparation of privatization (US$0.9 million) and to the Fund's
seminars (US$0.4 million) will be on the basis of selective international or local competitive basis.
Prior IDA review will be required for all training programs and for each contract estimated at the
equivalent of US$20,000 or more. Incremental operating costs for the Fund management unit
(US$0.2 million) and the Project Administrator (US$0.1 million) will include: staff salaries and
allowances, office supplies, office equipment maintenance, telecommunication services, vehicle
operation and maintenance, spare parts, equipment and office rental and staff travel.
4.40   A country procurement assessment mission conducted in 1986 found existing local procedures
generally acceptable, except for the preferential treatment of local bidders whe enjoy a 15 percent
preference margin. During negotiations of SAC III the government has agreed to reconsider this
policy. A 15 percent margin of preference will be accepted under international bidding for domestic
manufacturers and contractors only. The methods and stages set forth in Appendix 2 of the Bank's
procurement guidelines will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
I. Disbursemen
4.41  IDA disbursements by category are presented in Table 5. While project implementation is
scheduled for five years, a 6-year disbursement period is retained in accordance with the regional
disbursement profile for Burundi. Funds from the Credit account will begin to be disbursed in FY93
and continue through FY99.
4.42   All disbursements will be fully documented except for individual expenditures and contracts
below US$20,000 equivalent, which will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). The
documentation will be retained by the PA and will be made available for review by IDA supervision
missions and independent auditors.



21
Table 5: Disbursements
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Category                     (S x 1000)       % of Expenditures to be Financed
Privatization
(1)   Vehicles and Equipment        24        100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
(2)   Consultants services         496        100%
(3)   Training                     867        100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local
(4)   Incrememtal operating         94        100% of foreign expenditures and
costs of PA                             80% of local
Agribusiness Development Fund
(5)   Training grants              200        30%
(6)   Advances for                 530        30%
commercial services
(7)   Training                     276        100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local
(8)   Environmental Studies        100        100%
(9)    Operating costs             129        I/
(10)  Unallocated                  380
TOTAL                             3,096
I/ Note: The following percentages apply as percentages to be financed for category 9 (icremental
operating costs):
a) 100% for the 24 calendar months following the Effective Date;
b) 70% for the 24 calendar months following the period referred to in a) above;
c) 30% for the 12 calendar months following the period referred to in b) above.
J. &'counts and Audits
4.43   Government will establish two special accounts in foreign exchange to help expedite
disbursements under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The first account will be managed by
the SCEP and will finance eligible expenses for the Privatization c-imponent. The second account
will be managed by the Project Administrator and will finance eligible expenses for the Agribusiness
Promotion Fund and the project administration. Upon credit effectiveness and receipt of withdrawal
applications, the Association will make advance deposits totalling US$0.3 million and US$0.2
million, respectively. The special accounts will be replenished upon receipt and approval of
satisfactory documented evidence of expenditures to be provided by the PA and the SCEP. Should
any disbursements be made from the special accounts which are not acceptable to IDA, the
government will deposit the corresponding amount in the special account.



22
4.44   Separate accounts will be kept for all expenditures under the project. SCEP will maintain
the accounts for the privatization component. The Fund Management Agency will maintain separate
accounts for the FMU. The Project Administrator will consolidate records and accounts for all
projects activities. Accounts will be kept in accordance with accepted accounting principles and will
record all project expenditures, commitments, reimbursement and status of project funds.
4.45   All project accounts as well as the special accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. In addition, the accounts of the FMU and of th  enterprises under privatization
will be also audited: OTB, COGERCO, SOSUMO, SRDI. The auditors' terms of reference will
provide for a separate paragraph giving the auditor's opinion concerning the amounts withdrawn on
the basis of statements of expenditures. Audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the close of the financial year and IDA will be allowed to re-view all project accounts
and records. Agreement on accounting and auditing arrangements were reached at negotiations.
(para. 6.2 (1)).
K. Environmental Impact
4.46   Profit maximization objectives by private agro-industries are likely to induce the development
of more efficient use of pesticides (cotton) and fertilizers (tea, cotton and sugar). This will have a
positive effect on the environment and reduce pollution in Lake Tanganyika. Therefore, the project
was assigned an Environment Assessment Category C.  However, compliance with existing
environmental regulations will be a condition of eligibility for services to private companies. The
introduction of new technologies will be subject to environmental assessments fully financed by the
project.
V. BENEFITS JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1   The project will address key constraints that have so far inhibited an adequate supply response
to the macro-economic reforms undertaken and will expand the private sector's involvement in trade
and processing of both traditional and non-traditional products. The assistance proposed above is
designed to improve the capacity of private businesses to compete, particularly in the early stages of
development.
5.2   The privatization component will help to transfer to private ownership management and/or
companies generating most of export earnings outside coffee and providing income to about 90,000
rural families. Private management of agro-industries will contribute to increased exports in tea and
cotton (30% and 40% respectively over current levels). For sugar it is expected that private
management of SOSUMO will reduce production costs and lead to the capture of a larger share of
a growing local market. The current experience with tobacco shows that farmers are likely to benefit
from competition among crops as the current administrative constraints will be removed.
5.3   The Agribusiness Development Fund component will encourage small enterprises to prepare
and implement appropriate development plans by providing them with matching funds and technical
assistance in product development and market entry. The increases in production and services are
expected to be achieved through labor-intensive investments. Experience with similar funds in other



23
countries (para. 4.2) shows that this objective is attainable. Over the duration of the project, 150
firms are expected to benefit from financing of commercial services. Additional fiscal revenue
generated by the increase in the value-added will amount to about 1.5 times the value of the grant
over a five year period. The number of women beneficiaries is expected to reach 15 percent by the
end of the project which is about twice their current participation. Previously disadvantaged social
groups and rural entrepreneurs will also be encouraged.
B. Risks
5.4    Demand-driven support services are new in Burundi and disbursements on the Agribusiness
Development Fund are expected to be slow in the beginning and concentrated on the few export-
oriented entrepreneurs. The implementation of the project component will depend on the successful
implementation of the government financial policy supported by the Third SAC and the Private Sector
Development Project. For the privatization component, emergence of an active secondary capital
market will be critical to achieve the government social objective to offer equity capital of agro-
industries to the public and employees. This component will also be dependent on SCEP's
performance which has not been satisfactory in the past. The government is well aware of the
situation and has initiated a comprehensive restructuring of the unit (para. 3.9). External risks
include setbacks in the government's policy on national unity that could delay privatization of
industries. Any serious disruption will affect demand for the matching funds and new investments,
and diminish returrz to them. These risks will be monitored during project supervision and through
the mid-term review planned for March 1994. In any case the ongoing democratization of Burundi
institutions is likely to slowdown Government's decision making process particularly on privatization.
The timetable for privatization was extended during negotiations to address this issue.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached
6.1   This operation is part of a package including the Third Structural Adjustment credit and the
Private Sector Development project. Most of the policy conditions have been included in those two
operations. The following measures, identified as critical for the success of the proposed project and
expected to be in place prior to its negotiation, have beer. already enacted and implemented by the
government as part the SAC m and Private Sector Development (PSD) operations:
(a) Agricultural Sector (SAC LID
(i)     price liberalization for exports crops and for inputs;
(ii)     clarification of the land tenure code on pastures, irrigated land and
swampy bottom lands;
(iii)    liberalization of the use of Government-owned land and of the use of
inputs;
(iv)     elimination of administrative practices that have regulated cultivation
af export crops.



24
(b) Private Sector Development (PSD)
(v)      simplification of regulations for enterprise creation and operation,
and for import-export activities;
(vi)      elimination of Central Bank role in the administration of procedures
for import and export licensing of business firms and individuals in
favor of increased delegation of responsibilities to commercial banks;
elimination of prior accreditation of exporters and importers by the
Minister of Commerce and Industry; elimination of compulsory
deposits by foreign importers.
(vii)     liberalization of controls limiting the transfers overseas of business
earned dividends and of salaries of foreign workers in Burundi; and
increased foreign exchange allowances for business travel and
tourism; and liberalized international transport and insurance;
(viii)     elimination of Central Bank preferential rediscount rate of 6 percent
and institution of a single rediscount rate of 10 percent;
(ix)      elimination of the distinction in allocating credits between priority
and non-priority sectors, and between rediscountable and non-
rediscountable credits.
B. Agreements reached at Negotiations
6.2   In addition, the following agreements were reached during negotiations.
(a)    Scope and timetable for privatization
'i)      private firms will be invited to invest in new tea factories (September
1992)
(ii)     establishment of the TEC by January 1994 for COGERCO, and
March 1994 for OTB (para 4.15, 4.18);
(iii)     privatization of at least 10 percent of the capital for SOSUMO
(September 1993); COGERCO (August 1994); and OTB (November
1994) (para. 4.15, 4.18, 4.19)
(iv)      privatization of the SRDI rice mill in April 1994 (para. 4.20)
(b)    public investment in mixed capital agro-industries will be strictly limited to what is
necessary to maintain the current production level (para. 3.6);
(c)    private agro-industries will have full control over their extension systems (para. 3.6);



25
(d)    core investors will have special obligations towards smallholder farmers who are in
a de facto monopsonistic situation controlled b> existing processing units (para.
4.13);
(e)   the preparation of privatization of COGERCO will include the design of measures
enabling farmers to obtain freehold title on government-owned land where they have
indefinite usufruct rights now (para. 4.18);
(f)    agreement on the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures of the Fund,
including annual review, annual audit, and criteria for the Mid-Term Review (para.
4.27);
(g)   implementation of a cost-recovery mechanism on advances for commercial services
to private firms and introduction of cost-recovery of the Fund operating costs by
March 1994 (para 4.27);
(O)   terms of reference for the Project Administration team (para. 4.30);
(i)    procedures on project reporting and monitoring (para. 4.31);
(j)    organization of annual meetings of donors (para. 4.32);
(k)   terms of reference for the mid-term review to assess implementation progress,
identify constraints, recommend corrective action and approve the action program for
the remainder of the project implementation period (para. 4.33); and
1)    accounting and auditing (para. 4.45).
C. Conditions of Effectiveness
6.3    Conditions of effectiveness will include:
(a)    establishment of the Technical Evaluation Commission for SOSUMO (para. 4.19);
(b)    appointment of the Project Administrator and of the accountant who will assist the
Administrator with the consolidation of the Project accounts, both with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA (para. 4.30);
(c)    completion of the reorganization of SCEP, including the appointment of a financial
analyst, a management specialist and a legal adviser; (para. 4.28);
(d)    commencement of the recruitment procedure, (i.e. issue of the financing request and
terms of reference) by the supervising ministries at the instruction of ICP, for the
consultants' services for the preparatory works for the privatization; (para. 4.15,
4.18, 4.19, 4.20).



26
D. Conditions of Disbursement
6.4   Training for privatization
(a)   submission of a detailed training program acceptable to IDA (para. 4.21)
6.5    Agribusiness Development Fund
(a)   recruitment of an independent firm for the administration of the Fund (para. 4.27);
and
(b)   execution of the Fund Agreement (para. 4.27)
6.6   Subject to the above agreements and conditions of effectiveness, the proposed project will be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 2.3 million (US$3.096 million equivalent) to the Government of
Burundi on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



27
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
Agroindustrial sector policy statement
Introduction
This policy statement, dealing specifically with the agroindustrial sector, supplements the
general sectoral policy statement on private sector development issued by the Government on April 15,
1992 within the framework of the Private Sector Development Project.
General principles
1.           The Government has up until now been the principal investor in the agroindustrial sector,
the only notable area of exception being tobacco production. Through the public enterprises, and aided
by donors, the Government has developed coffee production (smallholder plantations, two hulling factories)
focusing in particular on fully-washed coffee (80 pulping stations); tea production (industrial and
smallholder plantations, five tea factories), upstream activities in the textile sub-sector (cotton ginning,
spinning, weaving), the downstream side being mostly in private hands; sugar production (industrial
plantations, refinery); rice production (irrigated smallholder fields, rice mill); and palm oil production
(plantations, oil mill).
2.           The gradual process of Government divestiture began within the framework of the second
structural adjustment credit, with liberalization of the rice market and several privatization operations: the
Muramvya flour mill, the central dairy, and three cattle ranches. Privatization of the coffee sub-sector is
supported by a sectoral project jointly financed by the World Bank and the Caisse Centrale, and involves
privatization of exports through a system of sales by public auction and privatization of managemeat
through the creation of management companies that lease the sub-sector's assets from the Government.
3.           Within the framework of the third structural adjustment credit, the Government intends to
expand the gradual process of divestiture from the productive sector to other agroindustries, and to
encourage new private investments. Since agribusinesses have an impact on the living conditions of
hundreds of thousands of farmers, the Government aims to ensure that the transition to a market economy
is gradual, controlled, and consistent with the development projects now being executed with financing
from various donors: the European Community (tea), the African Development Bank, the ABEDA, Abu
Dhabi and Belgium (sugar), Caisse Centrale (cotton), and the ADB (palm oil).
Privatization policy
4.           The privatization policy is set out in the privatization framework paper and is governed by
Decree Law No. 1/21 of April 12, 1991 on privatization and its implementing order No. 120/321 of October
4, 1991. The Government regards privatization as a means of making enterprises more efficient and thus
ensuring an optimum return on existing investments. Existing industrial facilities are mostly of recent
construction and technically efficient, so that the agricultural enterprises are generally assured of a smooth-
running production process. However, investments have been financed on terms generally resulting in
excessive costs that jeopardize their profitability. Moreover, the commercial management capacities of the
enterprises are generally inadequate.



28
Annex 1
Page 2 of S
S.           The proposed privatization strategy is based on the following principles:
(a)   the aim of privatization is to make agricultural and industrial investments more productive
by increasing the volume and value of exports, raising income levels in the rural areas, and
containing operating costs. The promotion of planters' associations to handle primary
marketing activities and take out equity participations in a given enterprise is regarded as
a priority;
(b)    new investments in the different sub-sectors will be reserved for the private sector, but
private or privatized enterprises will not have a monopoly. Private sector participation in
existing enterprises should preferably take the form of financing of additional investment
through capital increase. The Government intends to devote considerable publicity to this
option;
(c)   the intervention of international operators, through equity participations or management
contracts, will be voluntarily limited to avoid increased dependence on groups controlling
the traditional markets for the products concerned. The search fe - partners will focus on
independent operators capable of diversifying the market for Burundian products. The
choice of partners will also be based on capacity to increase local value added (investments
in local processing operations), the possibility of joint ventures in processing and retail
marketing units, or the taking out of cross equity participations; human resource
managerc -t policy; and proposed approaches to relations with producers;
(d)    whatever th- privatization options adopted, the enterprises must be independently managed
and haxe a balance sheet structure capable of ensuring their profitable operation;
(e)    management-contract based privatization is not regarded as a satisfactory long-term
solution. On the other hand, the introduction of certain management contract components
(payment based on performance), scheduled for 1992, is regarded as progress in relation
to the present situation (SOSUMO, OTB);
(f)    projects in progress will be used to help the enterprises improve their human resource
management (evaluation, training, personnel interests, recruitment policy). The staff will
be kept regularly informed about the restructuring and privatization process;
(g)   the process of privatization of enterprises operating in a monopsony situation must not have
a negative impact on the farmers. Accordingly, enterprises that are partially or 100%
private will be required to observe a set of basic requirements concerning their obligations
to the farmers: to purchase, at a price agreed in advance, all of the production offered for
sale, and to respect contractual obligations concerning the supply of inputs and of selected
seed.
6.           The privatization process is governed by the Decree Law on privatization and its
implementdng order. The Government may choose from among three major options: privatization of
management through contracts in which private companies are paid to manage public-owned assets; (b)
privatization of management through leasing arrangements or concessions in which a private company pays
the government for the use of public-owned assets; and (c) privatization of ownership of the company. The



29
Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
Government feels that outright sales are not appropriate to the characteristics of the agroindustrial sector,
since such transactions would preclude any involvement by farmers, employees, and other enterprises active
in the particular sub-sector. In any case, industrial plantations (tea and sugarcane) will be covered by long-
term lease agreements.
7.            With respect to privatization of capital, the Government wants to encourage transfers to
local investors. A company's capital may be distributed among the following partners: (i) a core investor
who will manage the company; (ii) other private companies upstream or downstream of the sub-sector
concerned (ocal suppliers, exporters, etc.); and (iii) small shareholders (farmers, farmer organizations,
employees, private individuals). The first phase comprises the selection of the core investor and involves
conversion of the public enterprise into a mixed-capital company. The new management will give the
company the benefit of its knowledge and experience and/or capacity to invest and increase local value
added. The specifications will include the obligations of the core investor with regard to relations between
the company and smallholders in the areas of marketing, incentives, input supply, and promotion of farmer
organizations. The company will be completely free to choose how to run its agricultural extension
service; it may either use the public services or private operators or even have its own staff of extension
workers.
8.            The second phase will consist of offering local enterprises doing business with the
privatized company the opportunity to subscribe to its capital stock. The third phase - sale of shares
to employees, farmers, and the general public - will not really be possible on any substantial scale until
there is a secondary market for the shares. As part of the Private Sector Support Project, the Government
has undertaken to set up a secondary market with certified brokers by October 1992. In any case, the
phases may run concurrently.
Human resource management Dolicy
9.            The presence of competent and motivated local staff is a prerequisite for the success of any
enterprise, regardless of classification, and will be seen as an advantage by a potential new owner.
However, certain enterprises are unable to attract and maintain qualified local staff (SOSUMO, OTB),
making ir necessary to retain a sizeable contingent of technical assistants at considerable expense. Non-
inclusion of this expense in a company's accounts artificially reduces the cost price of its products and
gives a false picture of its profitability. Thus the enterprises will need to take certain steps to improve their
human resource management system, including an analysis of staffing needs to identify strong points and
possible gaps and propose appropriate measures; evaluation of personnel in post and training/retraining
programs; institution of a performance-based system of remuneration for all personnel categories. As
provided in the privatization policy, personnel management policy will be a factor to be considered in dte
selection of a core investor. The company's staff will be involved in the privatization process and kept
up to date on its progress.
The role of the Government as shareholder in mixed enterprises
10.          The Government's aim is gradual divestiture through the sale of its equity participations.
11.          In cases where the Government is the majority shareholder, it will ensure that the
investment policy is prepared in close collaboration with the private partners. To this end, a three-year



30
Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
investment program will be prepared by the company's management and submitted each year to a special
meeting of the Board of Directors for approval and updating. The program will distinguish between
renewal investments linked to the normal operation of the enterprise and its present level of production,
and investments in modernization or to increase the company's production capacity. Company managers
and Government representatives on the Board of Directors will be guided by the following principles:
(a)   investments in renewal will be correctly programmed, proportioned and financed, whether
or not the enterprise is included in a privatization program;
(b)    preference will be given to the company's private partners in the case of investments for
modernization or expansion purposes. Preference will be given to proposed investments
that can be entirely financed by the company's private partners by means of a capital
increase, thereby enhancing private sector participation in the enterprise. The decision
should also take account of private projects likely to alter the company's market (individual
projects of private partners, artisanal projects);
(c)    projects to create value added downstream of the agroindustrial companies will be reserved
for the private sector;
(d)    particular attention will be paid to the specifications that concern the company's relations
with the farmers: production and input supply contracts; publicity and observance of
producer prices; award of quality premiums as appropriate.
12.          In cases where the Government is the minority shareholder, divestiture may take place
through sale of shares to the farmers, to the employees, and to the general public.
Public enterprise/farmer relations
13.          The formation of farmer associations will be encouraged. These will represent the
producers in their dealings with the enterprises and will be expected to gradually take over primary
marketing activities, input supply, and credit recovery. This policy is now being implemented at Imbo
Regional Development Company (user associations) and is also planned for OThl and COGERCO.
14.          Enterprises operating extension services will develop contractual relations with the farmers
fbr their annual crops: freedom to participate in the program; commitment by the enterprise to supply the
farmer with selected seed and inputs and to arrange for any credit required; commitment by the farmer to
respect the cropping schedule, maintain quality standards, sell his production to the enterprise, and pay off
his credit. This system is successfully implemented by BTC and COGERCO.
15.          Enterprises will favor smallholder production over industrial estates. Coffee, cotton,
tobacco and paddy are already 100% farm-produced. Expansion of tea area around existing tea factories
will be through smallholder plots while industrial estates will be limited to the new tea factories. SOSUMO
will start to introduce smail farmers to sugarcane cultivation.
16.          Agroindustrial enterprises will be able to decide what type of extension system they are
going to adopt. They may either sign contracts with the provincial extension services (COGERCO with



31
Annex 1
Page 5 of S
the Imbo-Nord project and the Nyanza-Lac project) or directly assume responsibility for the provision and
expense of specialized extension services (BTC, COGERCO in Imbo Centre, OTB), or subcontract the
extension services to private operators (BTC in the Mosso).
17.          The enterprises themselves will determine the system of payment most likely to encourage
the farmers to improve their productivity and product quality.
Relations among enterprises in the same sub-sector
18.          Relations among enterprises will be established by contract among responsible autonomous
enterprises. This principle already governs the relations between COGERCO and COTEBU, which are
covered by agreements negotiated as part of the conditions for release of the third tranche of SAC II.
19.          The various privatization formulas should facilitate cross participations among enterprises
in the same sub-sector.
Relations with foreign companies
20.          Partnership with foreign companies will depend on the relevance  and quality of the
technological contribution they are likely to make (know-how), their capacity to develop local value added,
and/or their willingness to accept equity participations of Burundian enterprises in their external market
activities.
Taxation of the sector
21.          The principal objective is the elimination of direct subsidies and of distortions between the
public and private sector as well as intersectoral distortions such as those existing between herding and
farming. To facilitate the transfer of certain activities from the public to the private sector (importing and
marketing of fertilizer and other inputs), the Government will abolish the turnover tax and customs duty
on imported inputs for a two-year period.
22.          The tax system governing agroindustrial enterprises will be determined by the Ministry of
Finance.
June 19, 1992



Annex-I
Page I of 13
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
_______ ________________________                    Proposed  Policy  Natrixit_
Amre                                       ObJectives                           Measures                                                 Timetabte
1.  Agricultural Production                LiberaLize sector in order to        Circular Letter confirming the contractual and           Ioplemented
stimualte production according       voluntary character of cotton farming for
to comparative advantage             smaltholders.
Circular Letter specifying the modalities of the        lplemented
reconversion of tea and coffee plantations carried
out with public furds.
Policy note on the programing and financing of new   Implemented
coffee and tea plantations.
Producer price liberalization for agro-industries        laplemented
while respecting the price ceilings currently in
place.
Price liberalization of inputs.                         laplemented
Liberalization of the purchasing, marketing and         Implemented
processing of agricultural products including
coffee, cotton, tea, palm oil, sugar.
Dissemination of the land lam for allocating            lwplemented
pasture, irrigated and swamp Lands to ssaliholders
and agribusinesses.
11    m :1=' fCredit PSD=                                                                                   AWP= Agrbsin=PromoinPmjedt



ARSf I
Page 2 of 13
Area                                      Objectives                          Neasures                                               Timetable
11. Public Enterprise Reform              Reduce fiscal burden of PEs and    Signature of the Circular Letter applying a             Implenmted
the rote of the state in the        moratorium on new fnvestments in non-finaneial PEs
productive sectors to enhanee       to be privatized.
economic efficiency through
caqietition.                        Issue invitations to bids for the privatization of    September 1992
the capital of all PEs slated for privatization an    (SAC 111)
1992 and signature of private mangement contracts
for those PEs whose manament is slated to be
privatized in 1992 equivalent to 14X of assets in
the statels portfolio. Timetable for reform of the
26 PEs recently reclassified.
Restructuring of SCEP and putting in place of the      September 1992
Monitoring Mechanism for those PEs to be privatized   (SAC III)
or liquidated. Finalization of the liquittion of
SCEP's Intervention Fund.
Approval of bidding documents for the recruitment      September 1992
of TA for preparation of privatization                 (APP)
Introduction of a producer price fixing mechanism      November 1992
based on cotton quality                               (APP)
Completion of the privatization of the equivalent     9enep'r 1993
of 6X of the state's portfolio (in asset terms) for   (SAC III)
those PEs whose capital mill be privatized and the
equivalent of 49X of the state's portfolio for
those PEs whose management will be privatized.
Governmuent decisions regardfng the next steps for
unsuccessful cases of PE privatization (e.g.,
restructuring, liquidation, private mansement or
leasing).



Annexc 1
Appendix I
Page 3 of 13
Area                                       Objectives                           Measures                                                 Timetable
111.  Privatization of PubLic Agro-        Reduce turnover of local staff       Study and design of an incentice package that           December 1992
industries                                                                      stimulates production and resolves ambiguities in        (APP)
Improve financial management and   land tenure practices in resettled lands
1. Privatization of COGERCO          marketing performances
Selection of consulting firm for preparation of         January 1993
Increase farmer's income and         privatization                                           (APP)
productivity
Improve the competitiveness of       Restructuring of COGERCO accounting system to           January 1993
cotton on the local and              insulate accounts of the Mosso Development Project    (APP)
international markets
Socio-econmic study, technical and financial            February 1993/Nay
Reduction of extension costs         valuation, human resources study,                       1993
assets/liabilities verification                         (APP)
Replacement of expatriate
technical assistance by local        Promotion of pilot cotton-growers associations for    March 1993
expertise                            purchasing of cotton                                    (APP)
ICP review of consultant report and proposals for       September 1993
privatization                                           (APP)
Approval of bidding documents for thz recruitment       September 1993
of TA to the TEC                                        (APP)
Selection of the consulting firm  for the TEC           December 1993
(APP)
Establishment of the Technical Evaluation
Commission (TEC) for COGERCO                            January 1994
CAPP)
Audit, technical and financial evaluations,
financial projections, assets and liabilities           February 1994tJune
valuation, restructuring of the accoumts,               1994
preparation of bidding documents for privatization    (APP)
ICP review of consultant report and proposals and
invitation for bids                                     August 1994
(APP)
Selection of the core investor
Novuiber 1994
(APP)



Annex 1
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 13
Area                                      Objectives                          Measures                                               TimetabLe
Privatization of COGERGO                                                      Transformation of COGERCO into a mixed-capital         December 1994
(cant.)                                                                      company                                                 (APP)
Offering of shares to other private companies          1995
(APP)
Sale of shares to the employees, the farmers and       1995
.__________________________________  ______________________________        the    general    public                               (APP)
IJ



,Annal 
ADDendix 1
Page 5 of 13
Area                                    Objectives                          Neasures                                             Timetable
2. Privatization of OTB            Increase the share of private      Approval of management contracts between each tea     Inptemented
investment in the tea sector       factory and OTB central mnagement
Reduce investment costs and        Approval of management contract between OTB and the   Implemented
increase profitability of tea     Govermnent                                            (APP)
production in Burundi
Invite private investment proposals for the Remera    September 1992
Reduce turnover of local staff     tea factory                                          (APP)
Improve financial management and   Introduction of a producer price fixing mechanism    Septeiner 1992
marketing performances             based on tea quality                                 (APP)
Increase farmer's income and       Implementation of a new staff benefit system based    September 1992
productivity                       on technical and finacial performance                (APP)
Increase export earnings from     Design and implementation of measure to iuprove       Septeaber 1992
tea                                small holder tea yields and quality                  (APP)
Reduction of extension costs       Approval of bidding documents for the recruitment    September 1992
of TA for preparation of privatization               (APP)
Replacement of expatriate
technical assistance by local      Study on the impact of suppression of subsidies on    Septeuber 1992
expertise                          fertilizers                                          (APP)
Promotion of pilot tea-growers associations for      December 1992
purchasing of tea leaves                             (APP)
Selection of consulting firm for preparation of      January 1993
privatization                                        (APP)
Socio-economic study, technical and financial        February 1993/July
vaLuation, human resources study,                    1993
assets/liabilities verification                      (APP)
ICP review of consultant report and proposals for    November 1993
preparation of privatization                         CAPP)
Approval of bidding documents for the recruitment    November 1993
of TA to the TEC                                     (APP)
Selection of the consulting firm                     February 1994
(APP)
Establishment of the Technical Evaluation            March 1994
Commission (TEC) for OTB                             (APP)



Annex 1
Appendix I
Page 6 of 13
Area__                                 Objectives                        Measures                                             Timetable
Privatization of OTB                                                     Audit, technical and financial evaluations,         March 1994/August
(cant.)                                                                  financial projections, assets and liabilities       1994
valuation, restructuring of the accounts,           (APP)
preparation of bidding documents for privatization
ICP review of consultant report and proposals and   November 1994
invitation for bids                                 (APP)
Selection of the core ivestor for Buhoro tea        February 1995
factory                                             CAPP)
Transformation of OTB into a Mixed-Capital conpany    March 1995
(APP
Offering of shares to privatize firms and other     1995
factories                                           (APP)
Sale of shares to the employees, the farmers and    1995
the general public                                  (APP)
Privatization of the other tea factories (core      1996
I____________________________  investor or management cWhnanies)                       (APP)



Annex I
Apendix I
Page 7 of 13
Area                                       Objectives                           Measures                                                 Timetable
3.  Preporation of                Reduction of sugar production        Establishment of the Technical Evaluation                Septeiber 1992
privatizatlon of SOSUN           costs                                Commission (TEC) for SOSM                              (APP)
Reduce turnover of local staff       Approval of bidding documents for the recruitment       September 1992
of TA for preparation of privatization                  (APP)
Inprove financial management and
marketing performances               Selection of consulting firm for preparation of          Jawuary 1993
privatization                                           (APP)
increase farmer's income and
productivity                         Socia-economic study, technical and financial            February 1993/
valuation, human resources study,                       Nay 1993
Replacement of expatriate            assets/liabilities verification                          (APP)
technical assistance by local
expertise                            ICP review of TEC report and proposals and              April 1993
invitation for bids                                     (APP)
Increase SOSUMO0s market share
in the region                        Setection of core investor                              July 1993
(APP)
Transformation of SOSUMO into a Mixed-Capital           August 1993
company                                                 (APP)
ICP review of consultant report and proposals for       September 1993 
privatization                                           (APP)
Approval of bidding documents for the recruitment       September 1993
of TA to the TEC for second phase of privatiz.tion    (APP)
Selection of the consulting fifr  for TEC               December 1993
(APP)
Audit, technical and financial evaluations,             February 1994/June
financial projections, assets and liabilities           1994
valuation, restructuring of the accounts,               (APP)
preparation of bidding documents for privatization
ICP review of consultant report and proposals and       August 1994
invitation for bids for second phase of                 (APP)
privatization
Second sale of shares                                   Movenber 1994
(APP)
Third offering of shares                                1995
(APP)
Sale of shares to the employees, the farrmer and        1996I



Annex I
Appendix 1
Page 8 of 13
Area                                     Objectives                          Measures                                              Timetable
4. Restructuring of SRDI and   Improve the competitiveness of       Study on the restructuring of SRDI                     Septenber 1992
privatization of the rice       Imbo rice on national and                                                                 (APP)
mill                             regional markets
Approval of bidding documents for the recruitment     September 1992
Increase farmer's income and       of TA for preparation of privatization                 (APP)
productivity
Selection of consulting firm for preparation of       January 1993
Reduction of extension costs       privatization                                          (APP)
Reduction of maintenance costs     Socio-economic study, technical and financial          February 1993/July
of irrigation and drainage works   valuation, human resources study,                      1993
assets/liabilities verification                       (APP)
Replacement of technical           Approval of bidding documents for the recruitment      Septenber 1993
assistance by local expertise      of TA to the TEC                                       (APP)
ICP review of consultant report and proposals for     November 1993
privatization                                         (APP)
Selection of the consulting firm for TEC              December 1993
(APP)
Establishment of the Technical Evaluation             January 1994
Couimission (TEC) for SRDI                            (APP)
Audit, technical and financial evaluations,           February
financial projections, assets and liabilities         1994/April 1994
valuation, restructuring of the accounts,
preparation of bidding documents for privatization
ICP review of consultant report and proposals and     June 1994
invitation for bids                                   (APP)
Privatization of the rice mill and restructuring of   September 1994
SRDI                                                  (APP)



Ain
Page 9 of 13
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED DRAFT POLICY MATRIX
Measures Proposed by SAC III and the Private Sector Develoorent Proiect
AREA                       OBJECTIVES                                       MEASURES                                 TIMETABLE
1. Legal and Regulatory    Create an appropriate enabling
Frameework            environment for private enter-
prim.
1.1 Enterprirt Creation  Speed and simplify enterpnse       Modify and siplify relevant laws and regulations and elitmnate  Implemented
and operation          registration and operation.       redundancies. Abrogate system of prior approval by Ministry of
Justice and replace, if necessary, with a negative list of srategic
activities subject to approval.
Create a trnprnt regulary         Wnte a Procedure Manual to guide civil servants and investors.  October 1993           JS
system.                                                                                         (PSD)                    0
1.2 Business Licensing   Eliminate redundant controls/      Eliminate requirement, or issue automatically, the commercial card    Implemented
licensing of private busne        for registered businesses.
activities.                       Remove accreditation of exporters and importrs by Ministry of  Implemented
Commerce and Industry; replace, if needed, by a posteriori
registrtion for statstical purposes.
1.3 Creation of private  Create pnvate legal functions to
legal and paralegal   facilitate and speed legal         Authoinze the existence, and free functioning, of private legal and  October 1993
profesions            enforcement of contracts.          paralegat professions, including notary public, process servers,  (PSD)
liquidators and auctioneers, and eliminate such functions in the civi
service.
1.4 Revision of          Rationalize and harmonize existing  Presentatin to the legislative organ of a draft revised commercial  December 1993
commercial codo of    commercial laws, and complete them   code.                                                      (SAC I1)
Burundi, and the laws   with new articles on various
governmng pubtic      enterprise regtime, liquidation
onpies and            procedur, etc.
liquidation procedures



Anex1I
AdD     x I
Page 10 of 13
AREA                      OBJECTIVES                                      WEASURES                                TIMETABLE
2. Trade Prnooio         Expand role of commercial banks.    Devise rules and regulaions, delegatig to banks responbilities to    October 1993
Policy                                                 act as accredited intermediaies for all external tade operations and   (PSD)
foreigp exchange trade and transactions to be legally and finaially
accountable for their customers' compliance with rules and
regulations with prvisions for legal co-responsibility of banks and
their customers.
Encourage foreign investment.    lAberalize transfer of dividends and foreign workers' earnings.
Implemented
(ESAF)
Elimina  prior compulsory deposits for foreign importers.
Implemented
-__ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ .   .  .(ESAY)
3. Tariff Policies       Liberalize and simplify.          The customs tariff spread is to be reduced to a maximum of 30 %  December 1993
and a minimum of 5 %. Settng of a maximum custom tariff of 70   (SAC HD)
_  on luxury goods and revision of the list of luxury goods.
4. Labor Policies and    Uberalize labor hiring and firing.  Submission to the legislative organ of a draft revised labor code,  December 1993
Regulations           Decrease cost of labor. Encourage    including the elimination of regulations requirng employers to  (SAC Ill)
labor training and upgrading     provide 100 % of costs of medical care for their employees and the
lifting of constraints on dismissal.
EMnwation of the practice of mandatoy wage fixing for various  December 1993
professional groups with the exception of a minimum wage for  (SAC IE)
unskilRed labor



Annex I
Appendix 1
Page 11 of 13
AREA                       OBJECTIVES                                       IEASURES                                TIMETABLE
5. Investment Policy     State policies and principles,     Prepare General Investment Policy Statement affirming freedom of    October 1993
including:                        enterprise for all investors in all sectors.                (PSD)
a) clarification of general policy vis-
a-vis investors;                  Revise existing code to incorporate two types of regimes:    October 1993
(i) an automatic regime of incentives available to all new  (PSD)
b) revise Investment Code            investments (excluding extensions and modernizations),
accordingly;                         incorporating S-year tax holidays and duty free import of initial
investment goods; and
c) provide for gradual integration of  Cii) a case-by-case exemption regime granted to activities with
investment and tax codes into one    demonstrated viability.
single code;                      The regime under (i) will require no formal approval but will have a
registration requirement; the regime under (u) will be granted by the
Investment Commission but approval by the Council of Ministers
wiU no longer be required. Extension and modernization projects
should generaUy not be eligible for exemptions from import duty or
d) adopt general free trade zone  transaction tax.                                             October 1993
legislation, and develop activities;                                                          (PSD)
Adopt free trade zone legislation acceptable to IDA, including
clauses to liberalize re-export through entrep6t trade, and allow
operation of bonded warehouses.
6. Tax Policy            Decrease distordons in the corporate   Adopt a policy statemert and timetable to undertake, during the next  December 1992
tax system, eliminate cascading   three years, tax reforms to encourage private entrepreneurs and  (PSD)
effects.                          investors, including inter alia, the following measures:
Provide further incentives for
investment in productive assets.  - deductibility of transaction taxes (Fl) paid on inputs for
manufacturing purposes, from taxes paid on output, to eliminate
cascading effects;
- Elimination of TT on interest paid on bank loans;
- Elimination of tax on equity paid at incorporation;
- carryover of losses for 5 years;
- Lower dividend tax rates;
- Lower corporate income tax rates;
- Authorized official amortization schedules for accountig and
fiscal purposes, and
- Faster depreciation of productive assets.



AnnecIA
Page 12 of 13
AREA                      OBJECTIVES                                      NEASURES                                TINETABLE
7. Fmenaial accounting    Develop and improve financial    - Create a board of private chartered accountants and take steps to  March 1994
and auditing          awccut  by local firms, and        revise, as required, and make business enterprises comply with  (PSD)
introduce compulsory exernal audits    procedures and accounting norms of the National Accountig Plan,
of enterprises.                    including cost accounting procedures.
8. Export promotion      Implement measres for non-        - Take concrete measures for effective and automatic        October 1993
traditional exporters.            implementation of the 10% drawback sy6tem, and of the 50%  (PSD)
reduction of income tax rate in favor of exports
Uberalize international air transport   - Adopt a transparent and simple system to permit freight and
activities.                         passenger charter flights on 24 hours notice.            October 1993
(PSD)
Develop trad-free zone activities
(ee 5. above).



Ami
Annex I
Page 13 of 13
BIURUNDI: PRIVATE SECTO)R DEVELOPMENT PROleCT
PROPOSED DRAFF POUCY MATRIX
Fmial Secbruvlomn
Amea                        Objectives                                                Measures                                     Timetable
Credit Policy       Elmina the directed credit policies.     Eliminate the distinction between pnority and non-priority sectors, and between  Implemeted
rediscuntable and non-rediscountable credits in allocating credit.
Eliminate medium-term credit target requirements of 15% and 60% of lending  October 1993
operations by commercial and development banks, respectively             (PSD)
Money and Capital   Encourage development of money market.   Restucture and expand TC auction mark-et rystem through:
Market
Development                                                   - development of a secondary market dough approved dealers (banks, insurance    October 1992
companies, etc.),
Fumancial          Strengthen credit analysis and loan recovery    Prepare satisfactory plans to improve staff trainig, loan monitonag and recovery    October 1993
Insfitutions       functioLs.                                functions and procedures, credit and internal contol functions           (PSD)
Insitute internal auditing and accounting
control functions.
Taxation of         Increase profitability of ban  by developing    Submit plan to (a) revise tax treatment of provisions against riks on loans, and (b)   Effectiveness
fiancial institutions  their capacity to pwvision against risk.  rationaize ttion of financial instmnts.                              (PSD)
and transactions   Provide incentives for increasd resource
mobilization and risk-takdg by banks.
Legal and          Design and put in place updated and       Revise banking law and amend regulatory framework to allow development of new   October 1993
Regulatory         modernized banking laws and regulations,  financial instruments.                                                   (PSD)
Framework          place all banks and financial insitutions
under effuctivo control and supervision of
Centra BanL



8URtUDt
AORItUSIUESS PROMOTION PROJECT
Project Cost Sumnary
FBu                             USS                          X Total
---------------------------------   ---------------------------   X Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign      Total      Local Foreign   Total      Exchange      Costs
A  PRIVATIZATION PREPARATION
1. Prepratifon priv. OTO        3500.0   29200.0   32700.0         17.5   146.0   163.5          89.3       3.0
2. Prep. Privt. COGERCO        1750.0   16800.0   18550.0         8.8    84.0    92.7           90.6       1.7
3. Prep. Privet. SOSUND          700.0   17950.0   18650.0         .3.5    89.7    92.2          96.2-      1.7
4. Prep. Prlvt. SRDI           2100.0   16000.0   18100.0         10.5    80.0    90.5          88.4       1.7
5. Training for Privat.        40800.0  163200.0  204000.0        204.0   816.0  1020.0          80.0      18.6
SUb-Total                          48850.0  243150.0  292000.0       24.2  1215.?  1460.0            83.3      26.7
B . PRIVATIZATION INPLENEIT.
1. Stuport to CTE: OT          5600.0   24350.0   29950.0        28.0   121.7   149.7           81.3       2.7
2. Sqwport to CTE: COGERCO      2100.0   15150.0   17250.0         10.5    75.7    86.2          87.8       1.6
3. Support to CTE: SOS O        5600.0   19750.0   25350.0         28.0    98.7   126.7          77.9       2.3
4. Support to CTE: SRDI         2100.0    6475.0    8575.0         10.5    32.4    42.9          75.5       0.8
.... ...........   .  .............. ................ .. ................   . ........ ---------............. ----    -. -----  ----------------------... .... ......
Sub-Totat                          15400.0   65725.0   81125.0        77.0   328.6   405.6           81.0       7.4
C . AGRIIUSINESS DEV. FUND
1. HATCHING FUIs              184500.0  296000.0  480500.0       922.5  1480.0  2402.5           61.6      43.9
2. TRAINING                    20000.0   60000.0   80000.0        100.0   300.0   400.0          75.0       7.3
3. FMUID NAGMESNT UNIT         34515.0   60355.0   94870.0        172.6   301.8   474.3          63.6       8.7                                   >
............ ................... .. .. ......... .................... ...........................  ......... ........ .......... .. 
Sub-Total                         239015.0  416355.0  655370.0      1195.1  2081.8  3276.8          63.5       59.8
D . PROJ. MDINISTRATIOU UNIT      59270.0    7380.0   66650.0       296.3    36.9   333.2           11.1       6.1
........ ..................................  ..... ...............................  ............................... .. ....   ....
Total BASEtINE COSTS              362535.0  732610.0  1095145.0     1812.7  3663.0  5475.7          66.9      100.0
Physical cont1r in es           11965.0   37580.7   49545.7        59.8   187.9   247.7           75.9       4.5
Price Contiemncies              39516.1   62012.6  101528.7        197.6   310.1   507.6          61.1       9.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS              414016.1  832203.4  1246219.4     2070.1  4161.0  6231.1          66.8      113.8
=g =                   esn =u==cu                                     _ e
..    Scaled ................0 - .....                  ....                                . 9:
V lum Seoled bv 1000.0 -6/30/1992 9:14,
IX M
P x



AGRISUSINESS PRUIoTIoN PROJECT
Su nry Accomts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                               Totals Including Contingencles
FBu                                                                           US$
.............................. .................................................. ....... ............. ... ... .. .......... ................. ... .... .. ...... ...... .......... 
92/93      93n4         94/95       9596        96/97       Total          92/93       93/94       94/95       95/96      96/97       Totat
1  INVESTMENT COSTS
.... ..............
A. IEHICLES. EQUIP. & OTHER             3957.6      1166.9       182.0          0.0        0.0      5306.5            19.8         5.8         0.9        0.0         0.0        26.5
R. STUIES AND RESEARCH                 15810.0    21746.4    28132.4    29257.7    30428.0   125374.5                 79.0       108.7       140.7      146.3       152.1       626.9
ULTANT SERVICES
1. LIT International                13260.0    10077.6    10480.7    10899.9    11335.9    56054.2                66.3        50.4        52.4        54.5        56.7      280.3
2. S/T International               108535.6   103447.9    38613.1    48189.2    50116.7   348902.6               542.7       517.2       193.1       240.9       250.6      1744.5
3. S/T Locat                        2M1.O    48266.4    43632.8    57425.4    72251.6   249297.3                 138.6       241.3       218.2       287.1       361.3      1246.5
..., .................................................................. ............... .............................. ... .... ...    .. ................... ....................................... *-o........   
Sah-Total                             149516.7   161791.9    92726.6   116514.5   133704.3   654254.1               747.6       809.0       463.6       582.6       668.5      3271.3
0. TRtAINING L SEMINARS               137598.0   148936.3    31111.1    32355.6    33649.8   383650.9               688.0       744.7       155.6       161.8       168.2      1918.3
Total IWNESTMENT COSTS                306882.3   333641.5   152152.2   178127.8   197782.1  1168586.0              1534.4      1668.2       760.8       890.6       968.9      5842.9
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. SLRIES & SUBSISTENCE                 3427.2      3564.3      3706.9      3855.1      4009.3    18562.8            17.1        17.8        18.5        19.3        20.0        92.8
B. L/T LOCAL CONSULTANT                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         00 
C. OTHER OPERATING COST                11426.4    11650.1    11994.8    12600.8    11398.5    59070.6                57.1        58.3        60.0        63.0       50         295.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  14853.6    15214.4    15701.6    16455.9    15407.8    77633.4                74.3        76.1        78.5        82.3         O.0       388.2
Totat PROJECT COSTS                   321735.9   348855.9   167853.9   194583.8   213189.9  1246219.4              1608.7      1744.3       839 3       972.9      1065.9     6231.1
............. ....................... ............... ....................................................................................................................  .......................................................... _.
Values Scaled by 1000.0 6/30Y1992 9:14



-iU"D
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
financing Plan by Project Casponents
UIS,
EUROPEEN
IDA            PRIVATE            GOVT           8ELCIUH       CAISSE CENTRALE     CONINITV          Total                  tocal
- - - -- -- --- -- - -- --- ----------    For.   (Exct.
Amount     X     Amnunt    X      Aaut    X         Asmunt    X      Amount    X      Amoint    X       Am.ot      X      Exch.  Taxes)
A. Preparation priv. OTB             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     040      0.0    183.4  100.0   183.4        2.9    163.8    19.6
B. Prep. Privet. COGERCO             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     99.3   100.0      0.0      0.0     99.3     1.6    90.0       9.4
C. Prep. Pv'vat. SOSIuI              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     99.9   100.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     99.9     1.6    96.1       3.7
D. Prep. Privnt. SRDI               96.9   100.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    1).0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     96.9     1.6    85.7    11.2
E. Training for Privat.            992.2    85.0      0.0     0.0    175.1    15.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   1167.3    18.7   933.9    58.4
F. Support to CTE: OTB             171.0   100.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    171.0      2.7    138.3    32.7
G. Support to CTE: IOGERCO          96.1   100.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     96.1     1.5    84.4      11.7
U. Support to CTE: S06SII          141.2   100.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    141.2      2.3    110.0    31.2
1. Support to CTE: SRDI            47.8   100.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     47.8      0.8    36.1      11.7
J. HATCHING FUD                   820.7   30.0   1367.9   50.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    547.2   20.0  2735.8   43.9  1687.1    750.4
K. TRAINING                        438.7   92.3       0.0     0.0     36.5      7.7      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   .  0.0      0.0    475.1     7.6   355.8    80.1
L. FUND HANAGEMENT UtIT            160.4    29.9     58.9    11.0     36.1      6.7      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    280.3   52.3    535.7    8.6    336.1   149.6
M. PROJ. ADMINISTRATION            130.8    34.3      0.0     0.0      28.4     7.5      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    222.4   58.3   381.6    6.1         43.8   309.4
Total Disbursement                3095.8   49.7   1426.8   22.9   276.1          4.4     99.9     1.6     99.3     1.6  1233.2   19.8  6231.1   100.0  4161.0  1479.1
,.................................... ..................................................... .................... ...... ... .... .... ...... ... .... .... .... ............ ........... .......................
Values Scaled by 1000.0 6/30/1992 9:14
4D~~~~~.
:Jt 
0D  : 4



ARIXIJIUSESS PROTlIN PEJCT
FiEwEing Plon bv ProJect Ccmzwaots
US,
Duties
& Tax.
A. Pre    Itlon prlv. ON          0.0
3. Prep. Privt. tOEIt00           0.0
C. Prp. Privet. sost0m           0.0
D. Prqe  Prlvat. SIDI             0.0
E. Training for Privat.         175.1
F. Syport to CTEs 01             0.0
G. Sso,t to CTE: COhERC           0.0
N. Suport to CTE: S06U10         0.0
1. Sqwort to CTE: S5I3           0.0
J. NATCNIK ftmlD                298.2
I. TRAINING                      39.2
L. FUN  NAN_EENT tWIT            50.0
N. P1W. WDNINIsTRTIOU            28.4
Total Disbursmnt                 590.9
...................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0 6J30/1992 9:14
0 
I 0  
0Nflip
o    ' 



AGRIBUSINESS PR ONOTION PROJECt
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                                          Totals Including Contingencies
FHu                                                                                      us$
.................................................................... ...................................................................
92/93        93/94         94/95         95/96         96/97         Total            92193         93/94        94/95         95/96         96/97        Total
A. PRIVATIZATIOI PREPARATION
1. Preparation priv. OTS                  36689.4            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0      36689.4             183.4           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0         18.4
2. Prep. Privet. COGERCO                   19867.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0     19667.0              99.3           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         99.3
3. Prep. Privet. SOSlo                     19974.1           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0      19974.1             99.9           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         99.9
4. Prep. Privet. SRDI                      19385.1           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0     19385.1              96.9           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         96.9
5. Training for Privat.                  114444.0    119021.8              0.0           0.0          0.0    233465.8              572.2         595.1           0.0           0.0          0.0       1167.3
.................................................................... ...................................................................
Sub-Total                                     210359.7    119021.8              0.0           0.0           0.0    329381.5            1051.8         595.1           0.0           0.0          0.0        1646.9
B. PRIVATIZATION INPLENENT.
1. St4pport to CTE: OTB                        0.0      34194.9            0.0           0.0          0.0      34194.9               0.0         171.0           0.0           0.0          0.0        171.0
2. Support to CTE: COGERCO                     0.0      19213.7            0.0           0.0          0.0      19213.7                0.0         96.1           0.0           0.0          0.0          96.1
3. SWport to CTE: SOSUINO                      0.0      28235.8            0.0           0.0          0.0      28235.8                0.0        441.2           0.0           0.0          0.0         141.2
4. Support to CTE: S0DI                        0.0       9551.2            0.0           0.0          0.0       9551.2                0.0         47.8           0.0           0.0          0.0          47.8
...................................................................  ...................................................................
Su-Total                                            0.0      91195.6            0.0           0.0          0.0      91195.6                0.0        456.0           0.0           0.0          0.0        456.0
C. AGR1DUSINESS DEV. FWD
1. PATCHING FMND                          53550.0       85394.4    113632.9    138257.0    156316.5    547150.8                    267.7        427.0         568.2         691.3         781.6       2735.8
2. TRAINING                               17544.0       18245.8       18975.6       19734.6      20524.0       95024.0              87.7          91.2          94.9         98.7         102.6        475.1.p.
3. FUND MANAGENENT UNIT                   24576.3       19831.0       20684.9       21449.2      20600.8    107142.3               122.9          99.2         103.4        107.2         103.0        535.7%0
..... . . ....................................................... ...................................................................
Sub Total                                      95670.3    123471.2    153293.4    179440.9    19741.3    749317.1                       478.4         617.4        766.5         897.2         987.2       3746.6
0. PROJ. ADNINISTRATION UNIT                  15706.0       15167.3       14560.5       15142.9      t5748.6       76325.2              78.5          75.8         72.8          75.7          78.7        381.6
...................................................................  ...................................................................
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                          321735.9    348855.9    167853.9    194583.8    213189.9   1246219.4                     1608.7        174.3         839.3         972.9        1065.9       6231.1
mmSUxma                               UU3~Us3un" 
. ............................................................................  ....................... ....................................................................................................
Va lues Ssted by 1000.0 6/30/1992 9:14
>



50
Annx 3
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDW
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENT
Procurement Method
Project Etement                        ICe          LCB               Other             N.B.F.         TOTAL
1. Vehicles, Equipment                              .03                                                  .03
(.03)                                                (.03)
2. Consultancies                                                         .7(a)            .9(b)         1.6
(.7)                             (.7)
3. Training grants and                                                 2.7                              2.7
advances for commercial                                                (.8)                             (.8)
services
4. Training                                                            1.6(c)                           1.5
(1.3)                            (1.3)
5. Incremental operating                                                .4                               .4
costs                                                                  (.3)                             (.3)
TOTAL                                               .03                5.3                .9            6.2
(.03)             (3.1)                            (3.1)
Note:   Figures In parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the credit.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
(e)      Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:  Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C.,
Azjgust 1981).
Cb)      Co-financed In parallel by Belgiun, CCCE, and the EC.
Sc)      Selective International and local competitive bidding.



51
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSIN3SS PROMOON PROJEC
Disbursement Table
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Category                      ($ x 1000)       % of Expenditures to be Financed
Privatization
(1)   Vehicles and Equipment        24         100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
(2)    Consultants services         496        100%
(3)   Training                      867        100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local
(4)   Operating costs of PA         94         100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local
Agribusiness Development Fund
(5)   Training grants               200        30%
(6)   Avances for commercial        530        30%
services
(7)   Training                      276        100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local
(8)   Environmental Studies         100        100%
(9)    Operating costs              129        l/
(10)  Unallocated                   380
TOTAL                             3,096
1/ Note: The following percentages apply as percentages to be financed for category 9 (Operating
costs):
a) 100% for the 24 calendar months following the Effective Date;
b) 70% for the 24 calendar months following the period referred to in a) above;
c) 30% for the 12 calendar months following the period referred to in b) above.



52
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Projected
Cumulative
Disbursements
Fiscal Year    Quarter Ending      (US$'000)
93       December 31, 1992             0
March 31, 1993              93
June 30, 1993              186
94       September 30, 1993          310
December 31, 1993          433
March 31, 1994             495
June 30, 1994              557
95       September 30, 1994          743
December 31, 1994          929
March 31, 1995            1053
June 30, 1995             1176
96       September 30, 1995         1362
December 31, 1995         1548
March 31, 1996            1734
June 30, 1996             1920
97       September 30, 1996        2105
December 31, 1996         2291
March 31, 1997            2415
June 30, 1997             2538
98       September 30, 1997        2794
December 31, 1997         2910
March 31, 1998            2972
June 30, 1998             3034
99       September 30, 1998        3096
buagx3



53
Annex 4
Page I of 7
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
AGRIBUSINESS DEVEOPMENT FUND
STATEMENT OF POLICIES AND. OPERATING PROCEDURE3S
QWi
1.    The specific objective of the fund is to motivate and assist individual firms or group of firms
in the preparation and implementation of export and import-substitution expansion plans, that will
create cost-effective expansion of export and import-substitution sales. It will also offer matching
funds to NGOs and professional organizations for services to private entrepreneurs in the same areas,
providing either the NGO, the professional association or the recipient matches the funding from its
own funds.
2.    The fund is expected to generate incremental export or import reduction, directly attributable
to fund assistance, over the 5 years from project start, of 10 times the grant support given by the
fund.
Eligible Export Expansion or Import Substitution Plans.
3.    Normally, the Fund's advances will support expansion or import-substitutionplans, potentially
with three phases: one for market exploration, one for product/production improvement, and a final
one for marketing. The intention is that the Fund's support will encourage the firm or division into
a planned approach to export and import-substitution expansion. The plans need not be elaborate,
however. Part of the purpose of the project is to encourage entrepreneurs to learn how to do most
of their own development plans, focusing on key elements. The written plan may be short and simple
if the key indicators are covered.
4.    Such a plan should take a firm, or division, into either new markets or better development
of existing markets. The goal is growth in value-added and exports. Its three distinct stages would
be:
(a)    Market Exploration.  An export expansion plan should normally start with
exploration of market opportunities. Desk work in Burundi should firstly determine
the most suitable import markets to visit. The field marketing research would then
use one-to-one personal interviews with potential buyers and others, to answer four
fundamental marketing questions: (i) What products are being bought? (ii) What are
the channels of distribution? (iii) Who makes the buying decision? (iv) What factors
affect this decision, taste, cost, product knowledge, availability? This information
from the markets is then compared with the firm present supply capability, not just
in terms of the product specification itself, but covering all aspects of the supply
package, including delivery reliability, maintenance of quality, speed of response to
letters, etc. This analysis leads into the next stage.
(b)    SIupplyPackage Adpatidn. This stage consists of a series of specific measures,
which will upgrade those supply package aspects highlighted in the first stage
analysis.  The measures might, for instance, be in product redesign, quality



54
Annex-4
Page 2 of 7
maintenance systems, packaging, export office efficiency, training of export staff,
etc.
(c)    Sales Promotion. Once adequate progress has been made in adapting the supply
package, so as to meet market preferences, then, and only then, will this third stage
begin. Activities directed specifically at achieving sales will take place during this
stage. They might include, for instance, an advertizing campaign targeted at a
defined market; direct selling visits by representatives of the firm itself; or visits to
appoint agents or distributors; or participation in specialized trade fairs.
Resources and Level of Support
5.    During the five-year commitment period of the project, fund expenditures are expected to
amount to US$ 2.7 million, half of which directly financed by the beneficiaries.
6.    The fund will finance. training grants and commercial services for professional training
organized locally by professional associations and advances for commercial services to private firms.
The aggregate amount for local training grants to any association will not exceed US$50,000 with
a total amount of US$200,000. The fund will finance up to 50 percent of actual expenses on
management service fees and on travel (ess than business class). Travel per diem will be reimbursed
at a maximum of 25 percent of the UNDP per diem for the location visited. The amount of the
advance would be repaid over a maximum period of five years, including a one year grace period.
The aggregate outstanding amount of commercial firms financing to any recipient will not exceed the
equivalent of US$50,000 (revolving fund).
Eligibility Criteria
7.    Eligible Sub-Sectors and Firms.  The Fund is to support any export activity in the
agribusiness sub-sector. The Fund will also support selected import-substitution activities.
To be eligible, firms must be engaged in a productive activity in the agricultural, fishing, or forestry
sector or another that transforms local agricultural produce, packages, advertises or otherwise serves
it. An inventory of existing firms that would qualify is annexed to serve as a guideline. The firms
must be have a majority of private ownership, and have private management.
Advances are intended primarily for modem agriculture and livestock production, agro-
industries and other resource based industries. Non-manufacturing exporters may be considered,
subject to the following limitations:
(a) the supported export activity should be on the basis of stable sourcing relationships with
manufacturing suppliers, not on the basis of pure trading.
(b) the exporter should add significant value within the complete transaction chain, either by
providing support services to manufacturers, that they are not in a position to provide themselves,
or by providing sourcing services to foreign buyers.
8.    Eligible Activities. In principle, any activity within a properly formulated eligible export
expansion, or import-substitution plan, that can be convincingly demonstrated to be cost-effective in
terms of its 10:1 impact on foreign exchange on value-added, is eligible for support. For guidance,
however, typical eligible activities would include:



55
Anex 4
Page 3 of 7
Desk Research is an important measure in directing field research at most
promising geographical areas, and product market segments.
Overseas Field Market Research, a main input into the formulation of an
export marketing strategy, should aim to answer the six questions
fundamental to such a strategy: (i) Which products are required? (ii) What
are the channels of distribution? (iii) Who makes the purchasing decision?
(iv) What factors affect this decision? (v) What volumes are needed? (vi)
What timing is expected for production, delivery, payment?
Product Adaptation. When market research shows product adaptation to be
required/justified, support will be given for advisory and technical services
in product redesign, advice on packaging and product testing.
Development and testing of new model products. Consultancy and small
material expenditures to undertake design and product adaptation in response
to identified market opportunities at unit level or through group coordination
and action.
Sourcing of equipment and supplies. Studies or travel related to purchases
of equipment or supplies for eligible operations. Equipment costs will not
normally be covered. If it would be cheaper to purchase a sample and test
it in Burundi than it would to contract for a comparative study or travel to
the countries of origin, an exception can be made.
Studies to improve storage, packaging. containerization, and transportation.
Development of grading. norm definition, quality control within the firm or
professional association. In cases in which overseas buyers are concerned
about product quality and consistency, companies should be encouraged to
use the seal of approval of a recognized inspection agency. The choice of
inspection agency will be open to the company, but it is likely that most
buyers will be impressed by a seal of approval from an internationally
recognized agency.
Supervisor. Entrepreneur and Einployee Training. Trainers and materials to
develop and implement supervisor and employee training in formal sessions
and on the shop floor to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
supervisory functions, and enable needed improvements in productivity and
quality control in relation to either the market in Burundi or abroad. Short
term training in neighboring countries or overseas would also be eligible.
To encourage a more informed, strategic approach to export marketing,
particularly in industrialized countries, (i) export marketing methods such as
pricing, distribution channels, and promotion methods; (ii) export market
research; (iii) organizing an export department; and (iv) export procedures
including GOB support schemes, shipping and forwarding.
Productivity Consultants and Technicians assist in analyzing and
implementing: (i) cost reduction and quality improvement moves which
firms could make with or without additional fixed investment buy which
would increase sales volume with a focus on improving material handling,



56
Annex4
Page 4 of 7
processing methods and tooling to increase production efficiency and achieve
consistent quality; (ii) choice of process/product technology which would be
compatible with a significant expansion in exports to more demanding
markets; (iii) setting up of Productivity Cells with specific work plans and
with measurable achievements on projected yields and quality of production;
or (iv) shared R&D effort to increase production efficiency. Agricultural
expo ters would be supported for recruiting and developing contracts with
farmers.
Development of improved accounting. Development of analytical accounting
methods is encouraged. Current accounting practices, including the national
accounts format, do not permit entrepreneurs to analyze cost components, or
project cash flow and credit needs. Computerized accounting, possibly
through contract with an accountant using low-cost integrated accounting
software, would be supported for the initial start-up costs.
Development of Marketing Strategies. Travel and subsistence costs would
be supported for purposes directly related to the company marketing strategy,
e.g., (i) finding and appointing agents and distributors; (ii) direct selling; and
(iii) keeping up-to-date with product developments. This activity would be
supported only when travel is directly related to a strategy based on adequate
market research.
Establishing Qverseas Operations. While the direct operating expenses of
overseas operation (e.g., warehouses, sales offices) planning and start-up
phases of such operations for travel by company executives and the costs of
advisory and technical services on warehouse setting, recruiting local staff,
and sales force organization.
Advertizing and promotion.
Investment proiect preDaration.   The  preparation  of studies and
documentation needed for tenders or financing requests for new projects.
Studies for acquisition of existing public assets, including preparation of loan
requests, preparation of bid proposals for lease, lease/purchase management
or sale contracts.
Eposu  to plants in competing countries and to other factories operated
with foreign collaborators to tap the strong capabilities among Burundian
manufacturers to adapt appropriate production practices of others.
Workshsps, seminars and firm level work by potential collaborators or
institutions which see potential for expanding exports or relevant import
substitution, with such exercises directed at productivity and technology
improvement.
Newsletters and trip reports prepared by local professional organizations.
The costs of paper and distribution would be covered, nct honoraria nor
office equipment. Acquisition and circulation by professional associations or
NGOs of professional journals and newsletters published abroad would also
be eligible.



57
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
9.    The following expenditure categories would be excluded: (i) capital and operating costs of
a company or NGO, including equipment and vehicles (companies can apply separately for APEX
loans for these items), (ii) membeiship drives of organizations.
Supervision of the Fund
10.   The Steering Committee. A steering committee will supervise the operation of the fund. The
Steering Committee will be chaired by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, other members will be representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, Ministry of Artisanat, Chamber of Commerce and professional organizations. The
Project Administrator would be the executive secretary of the Steering Committee.
11.   The Steering Committee will:
(a)    approve this Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures and any updates; and
(b)   review progress on the basis of quarterly reports.
Implementation Arrangements
12.   The Fund will be managed by a commercial or financial agency (FMA).  The  Fund
Management Agency will establish a small Fund Management Unit (FMU) staffed by a business
development specialist and a secretary/bookkeeper. The FMU would be assisted by six staff-months
of senior marketing expert who will have a minimum of ten years experience with local and
international marketing in either agricultural commodities or the garment industry. S/he should have
an MBA or equivalent specialized education, and excperience designing and running training
programs.
13.   The business development specialist should have an university degree in either economics,
agricultural economics or business, and preferably advanced training directly related to the project.
S/he should have at least 5 years practical experience in the private sector, including experience
designing and running training programs. S/he should have travelled on business in either
neighboring countries or overseas.
Scope of Work:
14.   In the first quarter of the project, the Fund Management Unit will develop a long-term work
plan and the first year's detailed Action Plan. The plans should include: (i) a publicity and outreach
campaign announcing and explaining the fund to all potential participants, clarification of the steps
involved in defining a development plan with: (a) firms that already have a plan, (b) firms that have
partial plans, (c) firms that have an idea, but no defined plan. (ii) an assessment of sources of
commercial information available in Burundi, and of measures needed to enhance this, (iii) an
assessment of training demand in the private agribusiness firhm!, and a plan for meeting these needs,
(iv) an assessment of the current fit between the existing agribusiness firms' production and markets,
nationally, regionally and internationally, (v) proposed areas of responsibility for team members, (vi)
provisions for monitoring and evaluation. The FMA would keep statistics on uses to determine
whether more specific criteria are needed.



58
Annex4
Page 6 of 7
15.   It is anticipated the fund officer may need to travel to neighboring countries during the first
months of the project, in order to evaluate regional market, training and information opportunities.
16.   The FMU will organize at least two short-term training sessions per year, to reinforce the
management capacity of local entrepreneurs. The themes will vary depending on demand, and will
be coordinated with other donors. Funding is provided to bring in consultant trainers for two-week
sessions per year.
17.   The fund officer will be expected to spend at least 25 man-days each operational quarter
visiting client and potential clients. He or she will be expected to visit each active client at least once
each quarter. The indicators will be monitored in quarterly reports. Each officer will go out and
"sell" exporting to potential clients; develop with them a basic strategy and develop with each firm
its initial export expansion plan, to be assisted by the Fund.
18.   During implementation, the officer will monitor compliance with the firms' approved
proposals; give continuing advice and support and encourage further expansion beyond the initial
plan.
19.   Processing of Proposals will normally go through the following stages:
(1)    proposals are prepared by the client firm and the Fund officer, normally at the client
premises;
(2)   the FMA approves the matching fund proposal; or
(3)    negative decisions are conveyed to the client in person, by the officer concerned.
20.   Both positive and negative decisions must be taken in less than a week, and normally within
one working day. Payment of matching funds will follow the same time guidelines.
21.   Monitoring Compliance. The FMU will introduce systems for monitoring compliance with
the terms of each grant approval. In particular, it will need to view specified outputs, such as market
research reports; overseas visit reports; etc., in order to satisfy itself that expenditures have been for
specified purposes. In addition, it will need to satisfy itself that each grant recipient has been made
payments of his agreed percentage contribution to the total cost involved.
22.   Confidentiality.  The fund officer will need to gain access to confidential business
information, if they are to be effective in appraising proposals. He will have the right to view such
outputs of grant-aided activities as reports; market entry plans; ungraded prototype designs; etc.
They will not have the right to copy them, communicate the contents to third parties or remove them
from clients' premises. Any violation of client confidentiality will be grounds for removal of the
officer.
23.   Planning and Reporting Cycles. The FMA will prepare detailed Action Plans for each full
12-month period of the project, to be approved first by the steering committee, and then submitted
to IDA 2 months in advance, for approval.
24.   The FMA will also prepare Quarterly Progress Reports each calendar quarter. These reports
will be submitted to the Steering Committee, and to IDA. The reports will indicate in detail:
(a)    whether or not the specific actions agreed in the Action Plan have been achieved;



59
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
(b)    totals for the quarter, and cumulative to date;  grant and advance applications
rejected; grant applications prepared, but pending; and grants and advances disbursed
(total approvals and disbursements should be compared with budgeted figures);
(c)    a report on the status of reimbursements, compared with agreed timetables;
(d)    a list of advances by firm, and grants by professional association, with export
expansion plan projections for the following five years given for each, plus a
computed "expected rate of return" on the advance expenditure for each.
25.    In addition, the FMA will submit to the Steering Committee, and to IDA, fully audited
accounts for each operating year of the project. Quarterly reports are to be submitted to IDA within
one calendar month of period end; annual accounts within two calendar months.
26.    Monitoring. Supervision missions by IDA will take place regularly-at least once a year.
These missions will have the same rights of access to firm-level outputs as does the FMA.
27.    In order to monitor progress towards achievement of the target, 10:1 impact of the fund, the
FMU will commit its client firms to provide export performance figures, right up to 5 years from
project start-up. The FMU will also introduce within the first operating quarter systems for capturing
and analyzing this information on a regular annual basis. The FMA will report on this at least once
each calendar year, showing expansion plan performance against target, both actual and cumulative
for each supported firm. This reporting routine will continue for five years from project start-up.
Potential Demand
28.    Based on a survey of a sample of firms inventoried, the potential demand for cost-sharing was
estimated as shown below:
-Estimated Totl Fund Expenditures
Firm size    Nb in          Participation   Unit cost of   Amount per    Total over
category      rate           service       year           5 years
(including    ('000 S)
grant)
Turnover           16           80           USS20,000       256.0        1, 280.0
1 FBu lOOmio
Emptoyeas>
100                                         _
Turnover           49           70           USS5,000        171.5          857.5
FBu 20-100
mio
Employw.s
10-20
Turnover           23           60           USS1,500        20.7           103.5
FBu 10-20
Etployees
4  10                      .                                .-
Turnover           203          S0            US$250         25.4            126.8
' 10 mio
Employees
(10           _ _ _ _ _ _1
Total              291 t465.                                               2367
buag-ax4



Annex-5
Page 1 of 3
BURU,D
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approx.   Activity                                                             Expected Skill         Staff Input
Dates                                                                          Requirements           (staff-weeks)
September  Supervision Mission: (a) finalization of project implementation arrangements; Agricultural economist  2
1992      (b) follow up on conditions of et effectiveness and disbursemnents; (c) Follow  Financial Analyst  2
up co-financing of TA by other donors.
December  Supernsion Mission: (a) Start-up seminar; (b) follow-up on conditions of Agricultral Economist   2
1992       effectiveness  and/or  disbursement;  (c)  assessment  of  institutional Financial Analyst      2
arrangements for the Agribusiness Promotion Fund; (d) review of the status Lawyer               1
of recruitment of technical assistance for the preparation of privatization; (e) Training Specialist  I            0
review of training program for privatization
February/  Sunervision Mission: (a) Assessment of the impact of SAC III and PSD  Agricultural Economist    2
March      policy measures on project implementation (in coordination with the Private  Financial Analyst  2
1993       Sector Development Project (PSD) and the Third Strucural Adjustment
Credit); (b) Review of project implementation
June 1993  Supervision Mission: (a) Review  of status of preparatory work for Agricultural Economist       2
privatization; (b) Assessment of Agribusiness Promotion Fund Operations; (c) Financial Analyst  2
review of implementation of the training program for privadzation



Anne-w 5
Page 2 of 3
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approx.   Activity                                                             Expected Skill         Staff Input
Dates                                                                          Requirements           (staff-weeks)
October    Supervision Mission: (a) Review of consultants' proposals for privatization  -Agro-Economist    2
1993       and of bidding documents; (b) Review of status of cost-recovery for the  -Financial Analyst     2
Agribusiness Promotion Fund; (c) Assessment of women entrepreneurs  -Lawyer                     I
participation in the Fund; (c) Preparation of detaile  terms of reference,
staffing, and schedule of execution of Mid-Term Review of project
implementation.
March      Joint Bank/Government/Donors Mid-Term Review of progress in project Agricultural Economist      3
1994      implementation; (a) implementation status of privatization; (b) performance  Agro-industry specialist  3
review of the Agribusiness Fund; (c)  performance review of project Financial Analyst
administration.                                                     Lawyer                      3
2
July 1994   &=viion Mission: Presentation and review of issues, conclusions and  Agricultural Economist    2
recommendations of Mid-Term Review. Preparation of follow-up action plan  Financial Analyst    2
and implementing calendar.                                          Consultant                 2
Review
November  Supervision Mi ion-: (a) follow-up of Mid-Term Review action and revised  Agricultural Economist  2
1994       policy matrix; (b) review of progress of project implementation; (c) review of Financial Analyst  2
bidding documents for privatization.                                Consultant                  2
March      Supervision Mission: Review of Project implementation               Agricultural Economist      2
1995                                                                           Financial Analyst           2
September  Supervsion Mission: Review of Project implementation                Agricultural Economist      2
1995                                                                           Financial Analyst           2
February   Suision Mission: Review of Project implementation                   Agricultural Economist      2
1996                                                                           Financial Analyst           2



Annex S
Page 3 of 3
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approx.   Activity                                                             Expected Skill         Staff Inpu
Dates                                                                          Requirements           (staff-weeks)
July 1996   Supervision Mission: Review of Project implementation              Agricultural Economist      2
Financial Analyst           2
December  Supervision MissjQn: Review of Project Implementation                Agricultural Economist      2
1996                                                                           Financial Analyst           2
May 1997  Supervision Mission: Review of Project Implementation                Agricultural Economist      2
Financial Analyst           2
October    Supervision Missiog: Review oi Project Implementation               Task Manager                2
1997                                                                           Financial Analyst           2
March      Supervision Mission: Review of Project Implementation               Task Manager                2
1998                                                                           Financial Analyst           2
June 1998  Supervision Mission: Review of Project Implementation               Task Manager                2                   1
Financial Analyst           2
September  Supervision Mission: Review of Project Implementation               Financial Analyst           2
1998        Preparation of PCR                                                 Consultant                  2
b.  a5



63
Annex6
Page 1 of 5
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
The Public Agro-Industries Sector.
1.    Public agro-industries (Government-owned public enterprises (PEs) operating in the agro-
industrial sector) typically have a turnover and capital investment ten or more times greater than their
private counterparts. Early investments in these public industries were often planned for a market
two or more times Burundi's total consumption. Private businesses, on the other hand, have
developed on a scale which appears to be better suited to the size of markets and management
complexity that local entrepreneurs can handle under present circumstances.
2.    The largest public agro-industries are in coffee (export) and beer (domestic consumption).
In 1990 the BCC (coffee export marketing) and OCIBU (coffee production) grossed FBu 9.11 billion
(US$ 53m) and FBu 7.25 billion (US$ 42m) respectively. In the same year, the two breweries,
which are operated by an affiliate of Heineken with 41% of government interest, grossed FBu 9.03
billion (US$ 52m) and FBu 1.86 billion (US$ 10.9m). The second rank of public enterprises
included, in declining order of sales, OTB (tea), BTC (tobacco) u, SOSUMO (sugar), SIRUCO
(used clothing/garment manufacturer), COGERCO (cotton), VERRUNDI (bottles) and FADI
(insecticides), with 1990 gross turnovers ranging between FBu 1.38 billion (US$ 8m) and FBu 511
million (USS 3m). The largest of the privately owned firms (fishing operations, SAVONOR) earns
just below this level.
3.    Next to coffee, the large public agro-industries constitute the chief sources of cash income
for many small farmers. Some 60,000 farmers grow tea, 20,000 cotton, 10,000 rice, sugar being
produced mainly on industrial plantations.
4.    Public and parastatal corporations continue to dominate the agro-industrial sector in Burundi
and, while some initiatives have been taken over the past five years by the private sector, they have
yet to influence the structure of the economy. Unequal competition between public and private firms
continues to be a constraint. State owned agro-industries receive preferential access to credit. They
are often delinquent on their taxes without the Government taking recourse against them as it would
against private firms. They enjoy duty-free agricultural inputs, while private firms have had to pay
duty. However, as part of SAC III measures, the Government has decided to harmonize the fiscal
and tariff situation of public and private enterprises and is committed to eliminate duties on
agricultural inputs for all users. A further impact of the adjustment reforms is that PEs are now
expected to show a profit and cannot, as in the past, rely on subsidies to cover their losses.
5.    Being staffed by seconded civil servants, PEs lack managerial autonomy and face chronic
political interference. They have a salary structure patterned after the civil service, enhanced by a
bonus attached to the office independently of performance. The high indebtedness of many PEs has
a negative impact on profits and leaves few resources to re-invest in the development of new markets
and product lines. On the plus side, their equipment is of modem technology and technically
efficient, and cou:d generate profits under competent management.
11 Temporarily operating under a Government trusteeship.



64
Anex 6
Page 2 of 5
and product lines. On the plus side, their equipment is of modern technology and technically
efficient, and could generate profits under competent management.
6.    Until the recent reform in the coffee sector which has privatized the management of coffee
washing stations and that of hulling factories, as well as broken the BCC monopoly by attributing an
increasing share of export sales to private exporters 2', the private sector had no opportunity to
participate in traditional exports. The Government is now considering extending privatization in the
tea, sugar and rice sub-sectors.
7.    Office du The du Burundi (OTB). OTB comprises a central management and marketing
organization plus five tea complexes or estates (Buhoro), each with its own plantations and/or
outgrower tea gardens surrounding a processing plant. One of the estates has only recently been
established and is not yet fully operational. The government attaches high priority to tea as a foreign
exchange earner as well as a means of relieving the poverty of the high-altitude Mugamba area.
Hence, social objectives may have pre-dominated over economic considerations in a recent program
to expand tea from 5000 to 8000 ha., and by 1995 to 10,000 ha. In some areas, tea has been planted
on fields too far from factories to be economically viable. As a result, OTB has had to build and
maintain roads in areas where tea profits alone would not justify this.
8.    Technically, the quality of tea production and the economic viability of the complexes has
ranged from excellent to poor. However, the recent expansion of area has resulted in a decline of
productivity and tea quality. Overall, yields declined at the four operating complexes according to
OTBs report of January 1992. They now range from 0.75 to 1.16 T/ha of dry tea per year, whereas
in the past they sometimes topped 1.5 T/ha.
9.    Four of OTB's industrial estates have been faced with persistent labor problems which
manifest themselves through absenteeism, low productivity, poor timing and quality of picking. To
remedy the situation, the estates are experi zenting with higher prices for high-volume picking. They
are also encouraging outgrower production where productivity is somewhat better. The fifth estate,
at Teza, relies exclusively on outgrowers.
10.   For high quality tea, shoots containing the top two leaves and a new bud must be picked
every ten days and the amount brought into the factory for processing each day should be consistent
and regular. At present, factories are receiving green leaves in quantities varying between 6 and 40
tons per day which is having a damaging effect on quality. While Burundi's tea continues to fetch
premium prices at the London auctions, there has been a noticeable decline in its reputation and the
margin of the premium. A tighter productiun schrdule, where both farmers and truckers collaborate
could result in an improvement of the premium up to 40 percent above the average auction price.
Producer prices would also need to be improved: under the present system farmers receive a fixed
price but there is no incentive in it for farmers to improve the quality of the leaves delivered or the
timing of their deliveries.
11.   OTB managed to show a small operating profit for 1991. However, these results do not take
into account externally funded technical assistance nor other subsidies. Technical assistance will
continue to be needed for the immediate future to compensate for a lack of qualified local personnel.
12.   The first step toward improving the productivity of the estates is to give them financial
autonomy. Despite a 1987 recommendation that the complexes be put on an autonomous budgetary
2  Coffee Sector Project (Cr.2123-Bu)



65
Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
footing, factories and headquarters continue to be allocated operating budgets independently of their
earnings. At present, possibly three of the complexes could be viable in their current state under
autonomous private management. Of the remaining two, one has consist_ntly shown poor technical
performance and weak management, while the other is not yet fully developed but is considered to
have high potential.
13.   The Cotton Comany (COGERCO) is responsible for the organization of smailholder seed
cotton production, provides the latter with extension services and inputs, marekets the crop and gins
it. COGERCO receives financial support from the CCCE. Most of the ginned cotton is sold to
COTEBU, the Government-owned textile factory, at a pre-determined administered price. Cotton
seed is sold to RAFINA, a local private company, to make cotton-seed oil. In the past, surpluses
ginned cotton were exported. In 1991, production was only 2500 T, 38 percent of estimated full
operating capacity, all of which was sold to COTEBU. At 1 T/ha, cotton yields are mediocre: in
1991, only half of the farmers used fertilizer, and rains were interrupted by a long dry spell.
14.   Technically, the organization and monitoring of production and ginning are adequate and
should result in higher yields and production. A new performance-based incentive system, introduced
in 1992 as a preparatory measure for privatization, should bring yields up by 40 to 60%. However,
start-up problems of the new system have resulted in only 10 percent of the bonuses provided for
being awarded.
15.   Staffing at COGERCO does not appear to be excessive, so that big lay-offs as a result of
privatization are not likelv. However, private management might be more demanding of quality
performance and extension personnel might be reduced following a more effective work assignment
with smallholders. Furthermore, the introduction of an incentive-based relationship between the new
management and producers might result in the transfer to the latter of responsibilities as regards input
delivery, primary marketing and credit collection. In 1992, as a first step in this direction, producers
will be paid a premium for delivering their cotton directly to the factory; the premium will
compensate farmers for their labor and transport costs. For the company, this approach is expected
to result in higher quality cotton and savings in transport costs. Studies are under way to introduce
a more distinctive cottoh classification system to replace the current system, which differentiates only
between acceptable and poor grade cotton, and improve the rewards for quality.
16.     The main cotton producing area is the Imbo plain, in which 4 ha. plots were distributed in
the 1950s to farmers who agreed to work according to extension guidelines. Every field of 400 ares
is divided into 10 plots, two of which are for cotton. A similar system of land attribution is used for
colonists in the Mosso. Recipients have indefinite usufruc. rights if they follow regulations, but
cannot legally rent or sell land nor make their own product.on decisions. Recently, the Govermnent
announced the end of regulations whereby producers are obliged to grow the standard two plots of
cotton. It would allow competition from other crops, chiefly tobacco and food crops.
17.   Cotton is another sector where motivated farmers could be more responsive to extension
services. Only about half of the growers buy fertilizer for their plots. Producers harvest cotton,
usually in June, and store it in their homes until the company truck comes in August or September.
During storage, the fiber quality and color deteriorate. At present the share of the sales price of final
cotton fiber going to farmers is about equal to that going to extension, including salaries, operating
costs (transport) and insecticides (which are provided free of charge). Since both farmers and
COGERCO currently receive fixed prices, neither has any incentive to seek quality improvements.
Cotton production has stagnated at about 50 to 70 percent of processing capacity.



66
Annex6
Page 4 of 5
18.   The financial status of COGERCO is generally sound, except for the inclusion in the accounts
of the extension of cotton production in the Mosso province. This activity is viewed more as a social
investment rather than an economic one. While funding for the Mosso operation will continue to be
provided by CCCE, a revision of the of COGERCO's accounts is needed in order to turn the Mosso
operation into an autonomous accounting unit.
19.   The Sugar Company (SOSUMO) produces sugar in the previously neglected Mosso plain,
saving about FBu 1 billion per year (US$ Sm, 1992) in imports. Its economic activity has created
a development pole in the southeast, which is now also attracting cotton and tobacco production.
20.   Technically, SOSUMO's plant is modem, having attained world standards for yields at the
end of its first year in production. Like most Burundian companies, SOSUMO has focused its efforts
entirely to increasing production, to the detriment of marketing and sound financial management.
At 14400 T (1991) SOSUMO's production is still far from the level needed to become viable (22000-
25000 T). Sales for the same period reached 10250 T, which just about saturates the domestic
market. As a result, the company muct now mount a major marketing campaign, both domestically
and for export, to become economica; y viable.
21.   SOSUMO's potential for privatization is compromised by its financial circumstances. Its
book value exceeds its commercial value by a significant margin, according to a 1992 consultant
estimate. The company is, moreover, clearly underfinanced. In these circumstances, SOSUMO
could not readily be sold for a price reflecting its potential without a fundamental financial
restructuring.
22.   SOSUMO is not overstaffed and privatization would not imply significant layoffs. Whatever
personnel changes would take place should be related to qualifications requirements. The salary
structure should, if anything, be enhanced to reflect the difficult working conditions in that isolated
location.
23.   As an intermediate step the Government has moved from a technical assistance contract to
a co-management contract as of March 1992. Independent expertise will be brought in to appraise
the business and evaluate the new management formula.
24.   The Imbo Regional Development Company (Societe rdgionale de develoMement de l'Imbo -
SRD   provides extension services to growers of rice and other food crops. It also hulls paddy
produced by small-holders on 3350 ha. of irrigated plots on the Imbo plain. Following the
introduction of a higher yielding variety-IRON 282-in 1985, rice yields have increased from an
average of 3 T/ha per season to a quite respectable 5 T/ha in 1991. In 1986, SRDI gave up its
monopoly of rice marketing and processing, and now competes with perhaps fifty small private rice
hullers. In 1991, SRDI handled about 82 percent of the 12,000 T of rice marketed. Small mills
processed the rest. A severe overstock problem in 1989 has now been resolved partly by exporting
rice within the region, sometimes at prices below cost.
25.   SRDI has integrated a wide range of rural development functions with its commercial
operations: road and canal construction and maintenance, housing, health, foodcrop. It is now
undertaking a study to restructure its operations, to separate out agricultural, industrial and
commercial operations that could be privatized from social aspects that would need continued
subsidies. Many of its commercial functions have been transferred to new producers' associations.
Of fourteen associations being created, eight are already in operation. These associations obtain
agricultural credit directly from the BNDE, supported by SRDI guarantees. This is in contrast with
the past when SRDI itself provided agricultural credit to individual farmers.



67
.Iunex-6
Page 5 of 5
26.   Public Sector Reform.   Under the vast PE reform program being undertaken by the
Government as part of its adjustment program, most of the privatization-related activities which have
so far shown satisfactory results have been in the agro-business sector, principally in the coffee sector
and in the case of SOSUMO's performance contract. Otherwise, experience with PE reform in
general has been disappointing. While only four enterprises signed performance contracts with the
Government, subsidies to those firms have continued to increase in order to cover the rising debt
service obligations. The few divestitures implemented under SAC U (two state farms, the Flour Mill
and the Central Dairy) were plagued by unrealistic valuations, and inadequate bidding and selection
procedures.
27.   In some cases, the reform went in reverse, moving in the opposite direction from the
proclaimed policy of divestiture. Two of the most successful private enterprises in the country, BTC
and SIRUCO, were put under government trusteeship during the SAC U period. Their 1988
turnovers were FBu 873m and FBu 733 m respectively. COTEBU, the public textile firm, a de facto
monopoly, purchased a controlling interest in the country's largest, most profitable private garment
factory and took an interest in a new cotton products firm. In the palm-oil sector, the RDC Rumonge
plans to expand despite evident interest and capacity of the private sector to undertake any new
investment in that area.
28.   Public enterprise reform is under the technical responsibility of the Service Charge des
Entreprises Publiques (SCEP). Created in 1987 as part of the First Economic Management and
Public Enterprise Project (Cr. 1795-BU), the SCEP has four units covering: (i) economic and financial
studies; (ii) operations; (iii) institutional and legal matters; and (iv) statistics and information. In spite
of an annual operating budget of FBu 40 million (US$0.2 million) and 17 professionals assisted by
consultants, SCEP's performance has been deficient. The Govermnent is well aware of the situation
and is conmmitted to a comprehensive restructuring of the unit.
29.   As part of its Second Adjustment Program the Goverment approved a legal framework for
privatization and established an Inter-Ministerial Privatization Committee assisted by Technical
Evaluation Commissions, for each PE to be privatized. SCEP provides the Secretariat for the
Committee.
30.   Public agro-industries/farmers relations. With the exception of sugar and tobacco, farmers
have historically been obliged to cultivate cash-crops, and are instructed where, when and how to do
so by extension agents. These obligations are to be removed as part of the SAL m. This condition,
in addition to the privatization of processing, wil: require a reorganization of production and
extension. Private voluntary organizations (PVOs), previously t!ghtly controlled by the Government,
are now encouraged. A seemingly spontaneous national movement is underway to create new ones,
at both the national and local level. Some of the national ones aim to offer agricultural and livestock
research, extension, inputs and marketing services to farmers, including low-cost input provision.
New possibilities are also opening up for farmers to organize into local and/or national producers"
associations.
31.   Farmers' groups could play an important role in improving input distribution and organizing
harvesting and marketing. Many agro-processing firms are counting on improved efficiencies from
the transfer of these functions to farmers.
bga6



68
Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
The Private Sector
A. Introducti
1.    Burundi's private sector is still in very early stages of development and its composition still
reflects the country's historical and ethnic background. Grouping firms on the basis of national
origin, and degree of integration into the formal sector, gives the following four categories: (a) the
indigenous small-scale informal sector, including businesses owned by Zairians, Rwandans and
Tanzanians; (b) the indigenous formal sector, mostly small to medium scale processing of agricultural
products; (c) firms owned and managed by locally resident expatriates, sometimes in partnership with
Burundians. Most of these expatriates originate from Asia or southern Europe. Many were born in
Burundi, or have lived in the country for an extended period. They have a vested interest in the
country. So long as the investment climate is friendly to them, they are a major source of new
investments. The majority of the firms with more than twenty employees were started by this group;
and (d) affiliates of foreign firms, including the breweries and two of the three quinine plantations.
Many of the oldest factories began in this way and have since been taken over by local management.
2.    Private businesses generate a significant share of tax revenues. For example, in the urban
areas, a recent USAID-financed study indicates that while private firms accounted for only 7.3
percent of national GDP, they collected 58 percent of the national total VAT, 55 percent of the tourist
tax, 24 percent of corporate income tax, 40 percent of import duties and 9 percent of export taxes.
3.    The business climate in Burundi has improved markedly since 1990.  Most of the
cumbersome procedures of the past have been either eliminated or simplified. The system is
considerably more transparent and, as a result, the r apetitive advantages of private firms in Burundi
are becoming noticeable. They include: (i) relatively low wages, few and non-violent industrial
disputes, and generally congenial working conditions; (ii) high motivation for and good performance
in training which compensate current low skill levels; (iii) positive encouragement from the
government, and in all except tax matters, a new simplicity and transparency of regulations and
procedures; (iv) sound monetary policy, with a slowly devaluing currency and adequate availability
of foreign exchange to both public and private sectors; (v) fairly good infrastructure for roads,
water, and power; and, although expensive, overseas telecommunications are good, while those
within the country and with other Africa countries are stil problematic.
4.    The disadvantages they face result from both their operating context and their own
inadequacies: (i) a narrow domestic market and, unfamiliarity with regional and international
markets; (ii) expensive and irregular air and land transport; (iii) shortage of capital, low level of
savings, and difficulty of access to credit; (iv) continued government price monitoring.
5.    Structural adjustment has played an important role in establishing an environment which is
conducive to the development of private enterprises. Tbis is especially true in the case of non-
traditional products not controlled by public enterprises. In these sectors there has been a strong
supply response and farmers generally receive a better return to labor than for the state-administered
crops. In the last few years new exports have been developed by the private sector in hides,
decorative plants, and fruits and vegetables. Cut flower exports began well, and still have substantial
potential, but are temporarily suspended. Technical assistance in the form of short-term technical and
training missions by expatriate experts was critical for success in early phases of the development of



69
Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
new private industries. Many of these enterprises, however, currently face growing pains as a result
of the earlier stated constraints.
6.     Local lending to the private sector is provided by the four commercial banks, about to
become six, and by the SBF, the BNDE, the Fonds National de Garantie, and the FOSIP. Banks
have adequate funds but lend conservatively based mainly on customers' past performance and insist
on adequate collateral equal to two to three times the value of the loan. Thus, only a few existing
entrepreneurs with a known credit history have ready access to credit. Banks have yet to develop
modern loan appraisal techniques and the capacity to monitor the projects they finance. Moreover,
the banks' high risk aversion is explained in part by the arduous foreclosure procedures where
government has priority. They would prefer other mechanisms such as creating their own lease-
purchase affiliates for industrial equipment and small machinery. Their hesitation to proceed comes
from the lack of legal and tax regulations that would apply to such operations. Many of these
problems will be addressed in the forthcoming IDA-financed Private Sector Development Project.
B. Prvate Ag[ibusins
7.     The existing formal sector private agribusinesses inventoried by the appraisal mission totalled
291 firms in five classifications (see table below): general agriculture and fisheries (73), agro-
industries processing (80), wood/printing/paper (35), chemical (22) and textiles/garments (81).
Private agribusinesses are typically much smaller than the parastatals: only 88 of the 291 have more
than 10 employees or an annual turnover of more than FBu 25 million (USS 0.5 million).
Table 1: Burundian Companies by Sector and Management Type
Agribusiness
Wood/Print                  textile   Total Agri-Commerce A
Agr/Fish/  Agro-     paper       Chemical/(Soap,  Leather   business  Other       Total
Management Type         Forestry   Industry  Laboratory  glass)/Garment   Business            Businnses   All
Pclic                          17        16           1               3         4         41          50       91
Public, 10X            15         7           1                1         2        26           32      58
Nixed ouirrship         2         9           0                2         2        15           18      33
Private
Forml sector           73        80          35               22        81       291          677     968
Bujumbura              71        60          33               21        80       265
Interior                2        20           2                1         1        26
Private
Informal Sector                 129           -               Sb       100       279         2498    2777
Bujuura                a-        79                           s 30      *-       109         1666    1777
Interior               --        50           -               20       100       170          830    1000
Allt             _             90       225          36               75       185       611         3225    3810
Source: SCIP, USAID Vorm. and inforum  Sector Reprts and mission udates _nd estimate.
8.     The main private act;vities in modern agriculture are coffee exporting, quinine
plantions, stockyards, dairy farming, fruit and vegetable exports, and decorative plant exports.
Nearly all of the enterprises in this sector are less than five years old. As stated earlier, many
face st-up difficuldties, much of it due to the competition of established businesses in other
countries who have longer experience, better information and a wider range of contacts. For
example, in the case of fruit and vegetable exports which have a ready market in Europe
throughout the rainy season from October to May, Burundi exporters compete for both
mna bfreight space with long experienced Kenya counterparts. So far they have held their own:



70
Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
six of the fifteen registered exporters have succeeded in organizing reliable local production and
collection. The others have stopped. The successful ones limit themselves to two to four of the
15-20 varieties in which Burundi has a potential comparative advantage. Contractual service
arrangements are developed with local farmers with the support of the extension service.
Unfortunately, agricultural research has been lacking as it cannot yet provide producers with high
quality, locally adapted genetic material which can also withstand difficult transport or handling
conditions which can, at times, result in heavy losses.
9.    In the food processing sector the largest two firms are the newly privatized Minoterie of
Muramvya (Flour mill) and a cotton oil factory, RAFINA. There is also a small peanut oil
factory (ARASOL), plus two formal-sector and at least a half dozen informal sector palm-oil
extraction operations. Oil processing has developed quickly in the last five years as the domestic
market is stll far from saturated. Similarly several dozen small milling and rice hullingoperation
have sprung up over the same period. A successful baby food company has franchised mills in
the interior, and developed brand name recognition. Two private dairies are in operation,
NADEL-Produlait and the newly privatized Laiterie Centrale. With small pasteurizing and
homogenizing units now available, several other small dairies are planned. There are a half
dozen yogurt and cheese producers, mainly small NGO projects in the interior. Three firms are
bottling juice or soft drinks for the local market. A tea-bag operation has also just started and a
locally born Omani is exporting tea to Oman, packaging it there and distributing it.
10.   The wood, printing and paper sector comprises mainly furniture manufacturers and
printers, but there is also a cardboard box manufacturer, a school notebook assembly factory, and
an envelope factory. Furniture manufacturing began growing rapidly less than five years ago,
but neither the quality nor the workmanship were up to modem standards. New investments in
kilns and finishing equipment should help produce quality products competitive with imports.
11.   Firms classified under chemical industries also process local agricultural produce, or
make packaging for it. Firms in this category include two industrial soap and margarine
manufacturers, fifteen formal-sector small scale soap makers, and probably several dozens in the
informal sector.
12.   The last and largest category is the textiles and garment industry, with 80 private firms.
Most of these (60) are small tailors' shops with little potential for industrial growth. This sector
is dominated by government-owned de facto monopolies in cotton production and fibers
(COGERCO), textile manufacturing (COTEBU) and garment-making/used clothing sales
(SIRUCO) in which COTEBU is the major share-holder. Two large private firms recently
developed industrial garment capacity. They share the military uniform market with SIRUCO.
Seven clothing manufacturers have export potential.
C. Potential New Agribusinesse
13.   Under the structural adjustment program, the government has made a commitment to
solicit private investment to develop the agribusiness sector. Any public investment in the sector
would be as a last resort. Opportunities for ptivate investment in the sector include:
(a)   increased private participation in traditional exports such as coffee, tea and
cotton, along the lines of the coffee auction system and the SOGESTAL
management of washing stations. Development of new tea plantations is to be
offered to private investors. Extension of cotton cultivation to new areas may be



71
Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
contracted out to private entrepreneurs on the model being tried by the tobacco
company;
(b)   continued expansion of non-traditional exports such tobacco, rice, flowers,
ornamental plants, tropical fruits, fresh vegetables, hides and leather.
(c)   investment in the production for export of products for which pre-feasibility
studies indicate a comparative advantage in Burundi: essential oils, silk and
spices.
(d)   regional exports of products including poultry, high-quality beef and sausage,
textiles and blankets, knitwear, furniture, and food-crops.
(e)   investment in small-scale import substitution industries, such as clothing and
shoes, dairy products, cooking oils and other foods. Most products manufactured
for the domestic market find some export potential regionally.
D. Professional Organizations and NGOs
14.   The private sector is represented and assisted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry
of Burundi (CCIB). In the past, CCIB focussed on a relatively small segment of the commercial
and industrial community, mainly the larger enterprises based in Bujumbura. Since 1987 the
Government has mandated the CCIB to expand its . -ivities and play a more aggressive role in
representing the business community throughout the country. Four offices have been established
outside Bujumbura to better serve these members' needs. Following a membership drive after
its mandate was expanded, CCIB now has 2,000 associate members, representing almost every
business in Burundi. The annual budget is now Fbu 70 million per year. Revenues from the
annual fair and membership dues, which range from FBu 2,000 to 100,000 annually, depending
on the size and capital of the company, provide 35 percent of the budget. The rest is provided
by the Government as a subsidy.
15.   Two other institutions also provide support to the private sector: (i) the Export Promotion
Service created in 1990 with the support of the EEC (COLEACP) to allow exporters to access
relevant market information; and (ii) the Agency for Promoting Foreign Trade (APEE) which has
not yet recovered from the controversy created by the compulsory nature of initial contributions
to its capital. The agency is now assisted by a USAID-financed advisor.
16.   Private voluntary organizations are being created at a fast pace in Burundi now that the
Government is openly encouraging them. Professional organizations are being created by modern
farmers, mostly farmer civil servants actually recruiting smallholder farms in rural areas. Their
objective is to represent and defend the interest of their members and to deliver services such as
input supply and extension. The largest of the new groups, the Association de developpement
agro-pastoral (ADAP), is organized around the idea of promoting modern mixed dairy farming.
The parastatal export promotion agency, APEE, has begun organizing professional groups by
sector.
17.   The UNDP recently inventoried 102 NGOs that are either local or international with a
representation in Burundi. Although the majority of these have a religious or social vocation,
a growing number undertake development projects. In addition, there are some 38 international



72
Fage S of S
NOOs which, while active in Burundi, do not have permaent representation In the country. In
contrast with the first group, most of the latter are involved In economic development projects,
often with technical training and/or small enterprises as a focus.
bS-'7



73
Anona
Page 1 of I
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
Key Indicators
Actual    1992/      1994    1995    1996       1997
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~(1991)  1993
Privatization
X of capital under
private wwnership
OTR                      0         0         0      10        10      30
COGERCO                  0         0        10      10        30      51
SOS010                   0        10        10      10        30      70
SRDI (mill)              0         0       100     100       100     100
Volum of sale
tea (dry)             5300      6800      900    9000       9700   10000
cotton Clint)         2900      3400      3700    4000      4300    4700
sugr                 11500     16000    17000   18000    19000   20000
paddy                10000     11000    12000   13000    14000   15000
Agribusines  Fund
Nuiber of beneficiaries
Enterprises              0        80       110     160       210     240
Associations                       2         3       4         5       6
X of womn entreprneurrs                     0        7       10       12       15
Amount of couximrcfal             0       160       190     235      275      300
services (US$1000)
Aeount of training                         20       30       40       50       60
grants (US1000)
X of recovery                               0       80       85       90       95
X of recovery oprating                      0        0       30       30       70
costs
Increoental value-added                  1600     1900    2350      2750    3000
($1000)
Trainins seminars                           2        2        2        2        2



74
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
AGRIBUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
1.    The project will be implemented by existing institutions. The privatization component
will be implemented by the institutions established under the law on privatization; the
Agribusiness Development Fund by an existing commercial or financial institution; the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL) will administer the project.
Privatization
2.    The institutions which will prepare and implement privatization of public enterprises are
identified in the Law on Privatization.
3.    The Interministerial Committee for Privatization is chaired by the Minister of Finance and
its members are appointed by the President of the Republic. Technical ministries become de jure
members of the ICP when public enterprises under their supervision are scheduled for
privatization. As member of the ICP, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and the Minister
of Commerce and Industry (MCI) will be responsible for the preparation of privatization; namely,
preparing the socio-economic analysis and detailed proposals for privatization. They will be
assisted b-, coni-itants recruited by the Project Administrator on their behalf.
4.    The Technical Evaluation Commissions (TEC) are established, for the duration of the
privatization process, by Presidential decree for each enterprise to be privatized. Under ICP's
supervision they are responsible for implementation of the privatization process. This includes
evaluation of assets; preparation of bidding documents for the sale of the company and
negotiations with private investors. To fulfill their mandate, TECs can hire the external expertise
considered necessary. The TECs for OTB, COGERCO, SOSUMO and SRDI will receive
technical assistance under the project. TECs are chaired by the Commissioner General of the
Public Enterprise Reform Office (SCEP) or his representative. As chairman of the TEC, the
SCEP will be responsible for the recruitment of technical assistance.
5.    The role of SCEP in the privatization process has been confirmed and expanded by the
Law on Privatization.  SCEP will provide technical and administrative support to the
Commissions and to the ICP. To correct past performance shortcomings, the Government is
committed to a comprehensive reorganization of SCEP.
Agribusiness Development Fund
6.    The Fund will be managed by an existing Burundian commercial or financial institution
(the Fund Management Agency), under a management contract with the Government. The
contractual relations between the FMA and the Minister of Agriculture, assisted by a Project
Administrator, will be set out in a Fund Agreement. A Steering Committee including
representatives of other ministries and of the private sector will monitor the Fund Agreement.



75
Anna 2
Page 2 of 2
7.    The FMA will organize a small unit (the FMU) staffed by a qualified business
development specialist and a bookkeeper/secretary to implement the Fund Agreement. Foe thw
duration of the project, the FMA will be assisted by 6 staff-month of short term consultancies
from a senior marketing expert. The consultant will establish a data bank of source of services
supplies, a library of professional catalogs, and train FMU staff.
8.    The FMA will be selected by the Project Administrator on behalf of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock after limited local bidding.
Project Administration
9.    The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock will assume overall responsibi'ity for project
coordination, accounting and reporting. During the life of the project, the MOAL will be assisted
by a Project Administrator attached to cabinet the of the Minister. The project administrator will
be a local consultant with qualifications and experience in financial management, who will have
the following responsibilities: (a) keeping the accounts of one of the special accounits,
consolidation of project accounts, reporting and preparation of replenishment requests for the
special account; (b) procurement; (c) management of one of the special accounts; (d) recruitment
of technical assistance on behalf of MOAL and MCI in preparation of the privatization process;
(e) organization of training for privatization; and (f) recruitment of the project's auditors.
buag-ax9



76
Anne 10
Page 1 of I
BURUNDI
AGRO-BUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT
Author             Title and Date
World Bank          Project Cost Tables
R.Abel, X. Reille    Etude d'une Societe d'Investissement
et de Promotion de P'Entreprise au
Burundi
C. Thiry           Appel d'Offres pour un Contrat
d'Appui aux Commissions Techniques
d'Evaluation
Govt. of Burundi    Cadre GEneral de la Privatisation
Govt. of Burundi   Decret/Loi No 1/21 du 12/8/1991 relatif I la
Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques
Govt. of Burundi    Decret/Loi No 100/066 du 19 avril 1990 portant
reorganisation de l'OTB
L. Phillips        Le monde des affaires agricoles et de
I'agro-business au Burundi
World Bank          Aide-Memoire de la mission de pre-evaluation
World Bank          Aide-Memoire Mission d'Evaluation



IBRD 23199
'29-00                             2910                               3*00300
( R  W    A   N   D  A 
BURUNDI
REGIONAL SPECIALIZATION OF                                ' o  CoA A A
PRINCIPAL INDUSTRIAL CROPS
SPECIAL.SATION REGIONALE DES
2-30          CULTURES INDUSTRIELLES                               (        BU   'ERA
),ja BUHORO                                                                       BWERU
N       RA A
i, -         WfGURA           \ v",. -,,
V   0~~~~~~~~~
;3                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATURAL REGIONS
u r          i rsl                                    -ARABICA COFFEE / CAFE ARA/ICA
MEDIUM DENSITVY /  SITE MOYEN
LOW DENSITY / DENSITE FAI/LE
4'00'                                                                         PLANTATION INDUSTRIELLE DE CAFE
/       ROBUSTA COFFEE PLANTAON
INDUSTRIAL PLANTATION
PLANTATION INDUSTRIELLE
SMALL HOLDINGS
PLANTATION FAMILIALE
9___ _                                                                                                COTTON. TOBACCO
KE  ISOMALI -i                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COTON, TABAC
WAN          -.~DA    !SAL
WVAN>~~~~~ENYA                                                                                    RICE >     Ru/r RIZo
abwo Id                                                                                    REGION DE LA RUZIZI
sBURUNDI  >         / ^ D e.es                                     *f    O0MOSSO RF''ON
AIRE                                                                                                  REGION Du AUMOSO
TANZANIA                I .                                                                SUGAR PROJECT
KI%  t  S  .2   lLOMETERS        <PROET SUCRIER
-))-lRIVERS / RIVIERES
O ¢ tt ._'     t                                d                    Vrse{.l enl npo rrhe mernolusoof ;h WoerXidBoSnA on {lh lnl  noTh.rW,  ca _-_  INTEPNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*~t \.  I m _  {   * ¢  Cotr,P M he d ommotion us d on  ,Aeabovedor;esh,. on   dm onFRONERES INTERNAI1ONALES
J6 . >I _   AArWo,ld Bon and IA. h*rnobonol   t*rporobon, any ludgm,nnI
ZAMBIA   A.    *                :                                                                                    SPTEMBE1991I
SEPTEMBER 1991



