Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2419 BU
(Agribusiness Promotion Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 9, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2419 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1992, between THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower regarding 
the agribusiness sector policy dated June 19, 1992;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Community (EC) a grant 
(the EC Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,233,000 to assist in financing the 
Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the EC Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EC; and
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of Belgium (Belgium) a 
grant (the Belgian Grant) in an amount equivalent to $100,000 to assist in financing 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Belgian Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Belgium; and
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
Economique (CCCE) a Grant (the CCCE Grant) in an amount equivalent to $100,000 to 
assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Administrator" means the official recruited by MAE that is responsible 
for certain tasks as set out in Section 3.03 of the Agreement;
(b)
"AGF" means l'Agence de Gestion du Fonds de Developpement de 
l'Agroindustrie;
(c)
"CIP" means Comite Interministeriel de Privatisation, as referred to in 
Article 5 of the Privatization Law as defined under (j) below;
(d)
"COGERCO" means Compagnie de Gerance du Coton; 
 
(e)
"CTE" means Commission Technique d'Evaluation, as referred to in Article 
6 of the Privatization Law;
(f)
"FBu" means Burundi Franc, the Borrower's currency; 
 
(g)
"FDA" means le Fonds de Developpement de l'Agroindustrie;
 
(h)
"MAE" means le Ministcre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage;
 
(i)
"OTB" means Office du The du Burundi;
 
(j)
"Privatization Law" means the law no. 1/21 of 12 August 1991 regarding 
the privatization of public enterprises;
(k)
"Privatization Order" means the ministerial order, No. 120/321 of October 
4, 1991, issued by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Plan, fixing the modalities 
of competitive bidding for the privatization of public enterprises;
(l)
"SCEP" means Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques, with the Prime 
Minister, as referred to in Article 5 of the Privatization Law;
(m)
"SOSUMO" means Societe Sucricre du Mosso;
 
(n)
"Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement; and
Page  3
(o)
"SRDI" means Societe Regionale de Developpement de l'Imbo.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purpose of Part A of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (Special Account A) in a bank acceptable 
to the Association, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special 
Account A shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purpose of Part B of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (Special Account B) in a bank acceptable 
to the Association, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special 
Account B shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1
commencing February 1, 2003 and ending August 1, 2032. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 1, 2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative 
and privatization practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services (including the selection of AGF) required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Part A of the Project shall be implemented by the institutional 
framework set out in the Privatization Law, including the CIP, SCEP and CTEs. Part B 
of the Project shall be
carried out by AGF. The Borrower shall appoint the Administrator who shall be 
recruited by MAE and shall be responsible for (a) the coordination of the preparatory 
work referred to in Section 3.04 (a) below; (b) the monitoring of the management of 
the FDA; and (c) the consolidation of the Project accounts. The Borrower shall 
maintain the Project implementation structure set out in this section throughout the 
implementation of the Project and shall ensure the availability of qualified and 
experienced staff in adequate numbers acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
No later than November 30, 1993, adopt a program for the privatization of 
OTB, COGERCO, SOSUMO and SRDI that is acceptable to the Association. Preparatory work 
to this effect shall be carried out by the relevant technical ministry supervising the 
Page  5
enterprise concerned under the coordination of the Administrator and in accordance 
with terms of references approved by CIP and the Association. This program shall give 
a detailed description of how the privatization shall be carried out and the steps to 
be taken in that respect. It shall distinguish between different forms of 
privatization, specify the procedures and principles applicable to each form and 
include a timetable with monitorable actions and explicit -minimum- targets as 
follows:
(1)
For OTB: tenders for the purchase of at least 10% of the capital of OTB 
must have 
been invited from bidders no later than November 30, 1994.
 
(2)
For COGERCO: tenders for the purchase of at least 10% of the capital of 
COGERCO must 
have been invited from bidders no later than August 31, 1994.
 
(3)
For SOSUMO: tenders for the purchase of at least 10% of the capital of 
SOSUMO must 
have been invited from bidders no later than April 30, 1993.
 
(b)
implement the program following its adoption without delay;
 
(c)
ensure that the program is prepared and implemented in full compliance 
with the Privatization Law and the Privatization Order;
(d)
in case of amendments of the Privatization Law or the Privatization Order 
give prior notification thereof to the Association; and
(e)
for each consultant whose terms of reference includes the transfer of 
skills and know-how, a local staff designated to work with that consultant will be 
appointed prior to the start of the consultant's assignment.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall set 
up and maintain a fund (the Fonds de Developpement de l'Agroindustrie, also referred 
to as FDA) in an
account in FBu in a bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association. The proceeds of the Credit disbursed under Part B of 
the Project shall be paid into this account. The account shall be administered by an 
agency selected by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association (the Agence de 
Gestion du Fonds de Developpment de l'Agroindustrie, also referred to as AGF). To that 
effect the Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the Fund Agreement) with AGF. The 
Fund Agreement shall be acceptable to the Association and shall, inter alia, include:
(a)
the terms and conditions on which AGF shall award local training grants 
and commercial services financing in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
that decisions on the award of local training grants and commercial 
services financing shall be taken independently by the AGF in accordance with the Fund 
Agreement;
(c)
an obligation for AGF to introduce a mechanism that ensures the recovery 
of the costs of operating the FDA as of March 1, 1994;
(d)
the resources to be made available by the Borrower to AGF to facilitate 
the implementation of Part B of the Project; and
(e)
the requirement of AGF to keep separate records and accounts regarding 
the implementation of Part B of the Project and to have these records and accounts 
audited applying, mutatis mutandis, Section 4.01 of the Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall give FDA and the beneficiaries thereof 
unrestricted access to the foreign exchange required for the implementation of Part B 
of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure the submission, by the Administrator, of 
quarterly reports on the implementation of the Project, and review with the 
Association by June 30 of each year progress made on the implementation of the 
Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term review 
Page  6
of the Project not earlier than 15 and no later than 20 months following the Effective 
Date. The terms of reference of this review will be acceptable to the Association and 
shall include, inter alia, an assessment of (i) implementation of the privatization 
program, and (ii) the performance of and results achieved by the FDA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Non-compliance with the Fund Agreement by either the Borrower or the AGF.
 
(b)
The EC Grant Agreement, the Belgian Grant Agreement, or the CCCE Grant 
Agreement shall have failed to become effective three calendar months following the 
Page  7
Effective Date or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the EC Grant, the Belgian Grant or 
the CCCE Grant, 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the EC Grant Agreement, the Belgian 
Grant Agreement or the CCCE Grant 
Agreement.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
receipt by the Association of a copy of the Presidential decree 
establishing the CET for SOSUMO in accordance with Article 6 of the Privatization Law; 
and
(b)
appointment of the Administrator and accountant who will assist the 
Administrator with the consolidation of the Project accounts, both with experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association;
(c)
completion of the reorganization of SCEP, including the appointment of a 
financial analyst, a management specialist and a legal adviser; and
(d)
commencement of the recruitment procedure (i.e. issue of the financing 
request and terms of reference) by the supervising ministries at the instruction of 
CIP, for the consultants' services for the preparatory works for the privatization 
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of the Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  8
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1830
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Telex:
5135 BDI MinFin
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ F. J. Aguirre Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Vehicles and                  20,000      100% of foreign
Page  9
      Equipment                                 expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Consultants'                 360,000      100% of foreign
      Services                                  expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Training                     640,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)   Operating Costs               70,000      100% of foreign
      of the Administrator                      expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
Part B.1 of the Project
(5)   Grants                       145,000      30%
(6)   Commercial Services          385,000      30%
(7)   Training                     200,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(8)   Environmental                 80,000      100%
      Studies
(9)   Operating costs             100,000*
(10)  Unallocated                  300,000
                                 _________
      TOTAL                      2,300,000
                                 =========
_______________
*
The following percentages apply as percentages to be financed for Category (9) 
(Operating Costs):
 
(a)
100% for the 24 calendar months following the Effective Date;
 
(b)
70% for the 24 calendar months following the period referred to in (a) 
above; and
(c)
30% for the 12 calendar months following the period referred to in (b) 
above;
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means incremental recurrent expenditure 
necessary for Project implementation, such as staff salaries, office rental and 
supplies, vehicle operation and
maintenance, spare parts and travel allowances.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
Category (3) prior to receipt by the Association of a training program 
acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
Categories (5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) prior to receipt by the Association 
of evidence acceptable to it that:
(1)
the Fund Agreement has been executed in accordance with Section 3.05 of 
the Agreement;
 
(2)
AGF is fully operational.
 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase and diversify agricultural exports 
and induce greater efficiency in agricultural and livestock production, processing and 
marketing.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Privatization of Public Agro-Industries
 
1.
Support to the privatization of OTB, COGERCO, SOSUMO, and SRDI, through the 
preparation and implementation of privatization plans, including the provision of 
technical advice on financial,
technical and social evaluation of the companies involved, tender procedures and 
documentation, and legislative, legal and institutional issues.
2.
Design and implementation of a comprehensive program of training and information 
to prepare both the staff of the public enterprises and the civil servants involved in 
the privatization, as
well as the private sector interested in the privatization.
Part B:
Assistance to Private Entrepreneurs
 
The establishment and operation of a Fonds de Developpement de l'Agroindustrie 
(also referred to as FDA) that will organize professional training and through which 
local training grants and commercial services financing will be made available to 
private entrepreneurs and their professional associations, on a cost sharing basis, to 
increase their knowledge of international commercial practices.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Vehicles, computer hardware and other equipment may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Office equipment and supplies as well as vehicle and computer spare parts 
Page  11
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, may up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000 or less per 
contract, may up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, be procured through 
direct contracting.
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4), in 
respect of Special Account A, and Categories (5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in respect of 
Special Account B, set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  12
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
$200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and (ii) an amount equivalent 
to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account B, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
Page  13
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
 SCHEDULE 5
FDA
1.
Eligible Recipients
 
Eligible for receipt of commercial services financing under Part B of the 
Project are private entrepreneurs and companies registered with the commercial 
register, that produce, process or trade agricultural or livestock products for export 
or import substitution purposes. Eligible for the receipt of local training grants 
under Part B of the Project are the registered professional associations of the 
abovementioned entrepreneurs and companies.
2.
Grants and Financing
 
The local training grants and commercial services financing are aimed at 
motivating and assisting the beneficiaries to develop activities in the agribusiness 
sector, primarily in the areas of export and import subsitution. The FDA will assist 
in the financing of local training and commercial services (including consultancy 
services, study trips and market research) that are in particular aimed at:
(i)
analysis of potential markets; or
 
(ii)
research and development for adaption of products to markets; or
 
(iii)
sales promotion.
 
FDA Contributions to professional associations for the organization of local 
training activities will be in the form of grants. FDA Contributions to individual 
private entrepreneurs and companies for commercial services will be made in the form 
of repayable financing.
3.
Applications
 
Applications for grants for local training and commercial services financing 
must be accompanied by a detailed training program or business development plan 
describing, inter alia, the
activities to be financed and the anticipated return on investment.
4.
Cost Sharing
 
Eligible training and commercial services will be financed on a cost sharing 
basis only. The recipient will be required to contribute a personal contribution of 
50% of the activities to be
Page  14
financed. The remaining 50% will be financed by a grant or repayable financing from 
the FDA.
5.
Maximum Amounts
 
The aggregate amount of local training grants made to any association shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000. The aggregate amount of commercial services 
financing made and not yet
reimbursed to any recipient shall at no time exceed the equivalent of $50,000. For the 
purpose hereof, companies, the majority ownership of which is held by the same owner 
and associations
controled by the same members, are considered to be a single recipient.
6.
Repayment of Commercial Services Financing
 
Commercial services financing will be repaid over a maximum period of five 
years, including a one year grace period.
7.
Review of Terms and Conditions
 
The terms and conditions of award for the grants and commercial services 
financing will be reviewed each year before December 31 between the Borrower and the 
Association. Every revision of the terms and conditions resulting from this review 
will have to be approved by the Borrower and the Association.
