() D.95-JTO
FILE COPY
RESTRICTED
Report No.   PE-36a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and spedfically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
JORDAN
January 13, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD 0.357      = US$ 1.00
JD 1          = US$ 2.80
AREA
1 hectare = 2.471 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................   i
I.   INTRODUCTION .........      .................................   1
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND ............................   2
General Characteristics ..................                  2
Economic Development Strategy .....      ...................   2
Manpower and Employment ..............................   3
III.   EDUCATION AND TRAINING ...... ...................           4
The Education System:  Characteristics and Needs           4
IV.   EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY .....................      7
V.   COST AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION .......... ............  10
The System of Financing ..............................  10
Public Education Expenditure .........................  11
Future Expenditure .................................... 12
VI.   THE PROJECT ...... . .... . 12
Comprehensive Secondary Schools (Amman) .............  13
Polytechnic and Trade Training Center (Marka) ........  14
Teacher Training Institute (Salt)       ....................  16
Agriculture Teacher Training Extension (Shaubak)           16
Technical Assistance .................................  16
Evaluation of the Project   .            .                17
Cost of the Project              ..     17
VII.   TIPLENENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT    .        .19
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................  20






ANflEXES
1.     Non-Agricultural Manpower Requirements for Large Establishments
(1968-1975)
2.     Enrollment by Grade (East and West Banks)
3.     Enrollment by Type of Education and Controlling Authority
(East and West Banks)
4.     Enrollment Projection for all Levels, all Authorities in East
and West Banks
5.     Enrollment Projection for Mlinistry of Education Schools (East Bank)
6.     Teacher Requirement for Ministry of Education Schools (East Bank)
7.     (Page 1)  Enrollment Projection (Total for Primary and Preparatory
Schools in East Jordan)
7.     (Page 2)  Enrollment Projection (Total for Secondary Schools in
East Jordan)
8.     (Page 1)  Sources of Education Finance
8.     (Page 2)  Resources and Educational Expenditure (East Jordan)
9.     Expenditure on Education by Type of School and Category
(East Jordan)
10.     (Pages 1 and 2)  Projected Educational Expenditure
11.     (Pages 1 and 2)  Curriculum of Comprehensive Schools
11.     (Pages 3 and 4)  Curricula of Polytechnic and Trade Training Center
12.     Courses, Enrollment and Output of Project Schools
13.     Curriculum of Primary and Preparatory Teacher Training Institute
14.     Curriculum of Agricultural Teacher Training College
15.     (Page 1)  Technical Assistance Time Schedule
15.     (Pages 2 and 3)  Staffing Plan for Polytechnic and Trade Training
Center
16.     Summary of Cost Estimates of Project Institutions
17.     Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
18.     Contingency Allowances
19.     Project Implementation Schedule
20.     Estimated Disbursement Schedule
21.     Comparative Education Indicators
CHARTS
I.     Structure of the Education System
II.     Educational Pyramid
MAP






JORDAN
BASIC DATA (1971)
West Bank     East Bank      Total Jordan
Total population                         900,000        1,400,000      2,300,000
of which:  refugees                      300,000          650,000         950,000
Average population density               153 per km2    15 per k2       24 per km2
Annual rate of population growth                                        about 3.2%
Literacy                                                                about 55%
Primary school enrollment as a
percentage of population aged      6-11                                    103   a/
Preparatory school enrollment as a
percentage of population aged    12-14                                      67
Secondary education enrollment as
a percentage of population aged  15-17                                      35
'-   Higher education enrollment as a
percentage of population aged    18-21                                      18
of which:  studying in Jordan                                                3.7
Education resources (1970)                              East Bank
JD Million     %
Central Government                                    5.6         66
Local authorities                                     0.4          5
UNRWA                                                 1.6         19
Private                                               0.9         10
6.5       100
Total education expenditures
as a percentage of GNP                                     6.5
a/ 90% when overaged students are excluded






JORDAN
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The education system of Jordan is based on the traditional pattern
of six years of primary education, three years of preparatory education, and
three years of secondary education followed by university and other post-
secondary courses varying in length from two to six years.
ii.       Considerable development in the past decade has led to the attain-
ment of very high enrollment ratios. The system is, however, suffering from
qualitative deficiencies and imbalances in enrollments which need urgent
remedial action for which the government has developed satisfactory plans.
Problems are compounded by the division of the country into East and West
Banks since the 1967 war.
iii.      The supply of teachers for primary and preparatory schools needs
expansion if the quality of education at these levels is to be improved; in
addition, teachers should be trained for agricultural and technical-indus-
trial subjects to implement the government's policy of introducing a diver-
sified curriculum in preparatory schools.
iv.       With only 9% of the students in vocational courses, there is a dis-
stinct imbalance in secondary school enrollments between academic and voca-
tional secondary education. This has resulted in a critical shortage of
trained manpower in industry, commerce and agriculture while a growing num-
ber of general secondary school graduates remain unemployed. The govern-
ment intends to redress this imbalance. One of the steps to be taken is the
gradual introduction, at first on an experimental basis, of comprehensive
secondary schools which would initiate reform of the secondary education
system by the introduction of vocationally oriented courses.
v.        A serious gap in the education and training system is the absence
of facilities for the training of industrial technicians and craftsmen. The
only school in Jordan for this form of training is operated by UNRWA for
Palestinian refugees. The government has decided to establish a combined
polytechnic (post secondary) and trade training center (post preparatory)
to meet the needs in this field.
vi.       The proposed IDA project would assist the government in meeting
the needs outlined above. It would specifically consist of:
a)   two comprehensive secondary schools;
b)   a polytechnic and trade training center including a science
equipment production unit;



- ii -
c)   a teacher training section in the polytechnic to train tech-
nical industrial teachers for preparatory schools;
d)   a new primary and preparatory teacher training college;
e)   extension of an agricultural school with a teacher training
section for agricultural teachers in preparatory schools; and
f)   ten man-years of technical assistance and eleven man-years of
fellowships.
vii.      The supply of teachers to staff the proposed schools is adequate
in quantitative terms, with external assistance in certain specialized
fields, but the government has to take steps to improve the quality of the
training, particularly of science teachers.  The government is making arrange-
ments with U.K. and UNDP/ILO to obtain technical assistance required to ensure
appropriate staffing of the polytechnic and trade training center.
viii.     A project unit has been established within the Ministry of Education
to supervise project implementation, to coordinate activities within the gov-
ernment and with private agencies and to provide liaison with IDA.
ix.       The total project cost is estimated at US$8.6 million and the for-
eign exchange component at US$5.4 million; if technical assistance to be pro-
vided by U.K. and UNDP/ILO estimated at US$1.2 million is included the total
project cost would be US$9.8 million. Procurement would be in conformity
with the Bank/IDA rules regarding international competitive bidding. The
government has already taken steps to recruit architectural consultants
services for the project.
x.        Subject to the provisions of Chapter VIII of this report, the pro-
ject is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$5.4 million to Jordan; the amount
of the Credit would be equal to the estimated foreign exchange component of
the project.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Unesco/IDA Reconnaissance Mission visited the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan in February, 1970. In March, 1970, a Unesco Project Preparation
MIission assisted the government in preparing an education project for sub-
mission to the Association. In June, 1970, the first IDA appraisal mission
reached Beirut but had to return due to the outbreak of internal disorder in
Jordan. The proposed project was finally appraised in May/June 1971 by a
mission composed of Messrs. J.C. Jones (mission leader, technical educator),
E. Ferzad (architect), R. McMahon (technical educator), T. Terrefe (general
educator) and B. Thoolen (economist).
1.02      Following the appraisal, the project was slightly modified.  In
view of the limited employment opportunities for general secondary school
graduates, the original request for four secondary schools was reduced to
two comprehensive schools; the establishment of a printing press was deleted
as a relatively low priority at this time; the science equipment production
unit was integrated as part of the polytechnic; and in view of the expected
financing by U.K. and UNDP/ILO the technical assistance component of the
project was reduced.
1.03      The project, as modified, consists of:
a)   Construction of and equipment for:
- two comprehensive secondary schools;
- one polytechnic and trade training center (including a
science equipment production unit);
- a special section in the proposed polytechnic, for the
training of technical teachers for preparatory schools;
9                    - one college for the training of primary and preparatory
school teachers.
b)   Extension of an existing agricultural secondary school to
facilitate the training of agricultural teachers for prepa-
ratory schools.
c)   Ten man-years of technical assistance and eleven man-years
of fellowships, for coordinating the development of com-
prehensive schools, providing advanced training for teacher
trainers, strengthening educational planning and establish-
ing the project unit.
1.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$8.6 million and
the foreign exchange component at US$5.4 million.



-2-
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROLND
General Characteristics
2.01      The total population of Jordan, East and West Banks, is estimated
at 2.3 million and growing at the rapid rate of 3.2% per annum. Due to the
high growth rate, about 60% of the population is below 20 years of age. Of
the 1.4 million inhabitants on the East Bank, 650,000 are Palestinian refu-
gees: half of these were already in the East Bank before 1967 and the other
half migrated from the West Bank during or shortly after the 1967 war. At
present only East Jordan is under the effective control of the central gov-
ernment. Population and economic activity are heavily concentrated around
the capital city of Amman and in the fertile Jordan valley west of Amman.
2.02      The total labor force is estimated at 500,000 of whom only 6% are
women.  In 1966, the latest year for which employment figures were available,
agriculture accounted for 48% of those employed, mining, manufacturing and
construction 19%, and private and public services 33%. Unemployment is
estimated at 20%. Since the war, the civil service and work in neighboring
Arab countries have been the main employment outlets for new entrants into
the labor force.
2.03      In 1966, agriculture accounted for 18% and mining, manufacturing
and construction for 18% of the GDP. The remaining 64% is contributed by
private and public services. An important source of income before the 1967
war was tourism. However, because most of the tourism was in the West Bank
this has now been lost. Income from Jordanians working abroad also con-
tributes significantly to the economy. There is a preponderance of small-
size enterprises with generally low standards of management and production
techniques. The few major industries include oil refining, phosphate mining,
cement manufacturing and vegetable oil production. These industries employ
modern production techniques and have relatively high productivity.
2.04      Government finance is heavily dependent upon foreign aid.  Prior
to 1967, there was a trend toward greater reliance on domestic resources.
Since then the trend has been reversed due to loss of tax revenue from the
occupied West Bank and due to an increasing demand for defense and relief
programs. Emergency aid has been provided by other Arab countries.
Economic Development Strategy
2.05      The Jordanian Government pursues an active policy directed toward
balanced economic growth. Development plans emphasize high growth of GNP,
reduction in the level of unemployment and in the balance of payments defi-
cit. A major target of this policy is to minimize Jordan's heavy reliance
on foreign aid by bringing expenditures more in line with national resources.



-3-
2.06      Due to the effects of the war and the 1970 internal disorder, devel-
opment strategy has focused on reconstruction and recovery. Formulation of
educational and manpower policy, however, continues to be based on the long-
term objectives of the development plans. Therefore, prominent in the gov-
ernment's policy is the development of technical and vocational manpower as
a basis for sustained future economic growth, particularly in the field of
industry, mining and agriculture.
2.07      The development of the agricultural sector heavily depends upon
the rationalization and expansion of irrigation schemes. In the modern
economic sector, top priority will continue to be given to mining and manu-
facturing.  Between 1960 and 1966 industrial production increased by 16%
per year as against an overall GNP growth rate of about 10%.
2.08      Foreign assistance is being used for promoting the establishment
of new, and the expansion of existing, private industry. The expansion and
development of electric power in and around Amman are indicative of ongoing
activities in this field.
Mfanpower and Employment
2.09      Information on total employment and on the occupational and educa-
tional profile of the labor force is either incomplete or non-existent. Man-
power projections which could serve as a basis for determining the kind and
number of people to be trained are not available. A series of employment
and household sample surveys is being carried out by the Department of
Statistics. The National Planning Council, with assistance from the Ford
Foundation, is at present studying manpower requirements. This study is
long overdue and the government has agreed to accelerate the progress with
a view to completing it within one year of the signing of the Credit Agree-
ment and the results would be communicated to IDA.
2.10      Pending the outcome of the above studies, some general observations
about manpower and employment can be made.  At present there is serious gen-
eral unemployment with the home civil service and work in other Arab countries
being the main employment outlets. At the same time the supply of technical
and non-technical personnel is clearly unbalanced, the former group continu-
ing to be in short supply. This is due partly to the migration of trained
personnel and partly to the deficiencies in the education system.  On the
one hand there are chronic shortages of well-trained middle level technicians
and skilled craftsmen while, on the other, an increasing number of graduates
from general secondary schools are unemployed. In the absence of employment
opportunities, a large number of secondary school graduates continue into
higher studies at home and abroad. In 1970 some 30,000 Jordanians were in
this category. For many, this represents a form of hidden unemployment.
So far, the shortage of middle level technicians and craftsmen has been
overcome by providing in-plant training, but the quality of this type of
training is generally low and the program is often too costly for employers
especially if the trained workers later leave Jordan to seek better paid
employment abroad. The country, however, does derive some benefit in the
form of remittances from abroad.



-4-
2.11      The shortage of technicians and skilled personnel will become
critical unless the training program in this area is developed. The
National Planning Council estimates that by 1975 large establishments in
the East and West Banks will alone have an annual requirement of more than
220 middle-level technicians and nearly 1,200 skilled manual workers
(Annex 1). The present supply of technicians and craftsmen including some
400 trained by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), will
fall short of these requirements although the extent of the shortfall can-
not be precisely measured at this time.
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Education System:  Characteristics and Needs                                        0
3.01      The Jordanian education system consists of:  six years of primary
(grades 1-6), three years of preparatory (grades 7-9) and three years of
secondary education (grades 10-12); university education is of four to six
years (Charts I and II and Annex 2). In addition, two and three years post-
secondary vocational and teacher training courses are offered. Except for
a few university courses offered in English, teaching at all levels is con-
ducted in Arabic by Jordanian staff. The Ministry of Education has overall
responsibility for public primary, preparatory and secondary education, but
21% of primary and preparatory education is provided by UNRWA, (United Na-
tions Relief and Works Agency) and 10% by private schools. The University
of Jordan, an autonomous institution, receives government and other grants.
3.02      Primary and Preparatory Education:  The education law of 1964 pro-
vides nine years of free compulsory education with automatic promotion from
the primary to the preparatory cycle. Enrollment has nearly doubled during
the past decade to the present figure of 533,000 students (422,000 in pri-
mary and 111,000 in preparatory grades).  Primary and preparatory enroll-
ment ratios are high: for the country as a whole, 103% 1/ of the primary
school age and 67% of the preparatory school age children are enrolled. The
proportion of girls at both levels is also high. At the primary level, 44%
of the students are girls; at the preparatory level, 36% (Annex 2). Due to
automatic promotion repeaters and dropout rates are minimal:  only 8% of the
primary and 12% of the preparatory students are repeaters and on the average
only 3% of the primary and 10% of the preparatory students drop out before
completing the cycle.
3.03      Although enrollment ratios at these levels are high and the out-
put of the system is numerically impressive, the quality of education at
these levels is deficient. Most teachers are unqualified, school buildings
are unsuitable and basic teaching material is lacking.
1/   Includes children outside the age limits 6-11
Excluding these children, the ratio is 90%.



-5-
3.04      The shortage of properly trained primary and preparatory teachers
is a major factor in the poor quality of teaching and a major obstacle pre-
venting the introduction of a more meaningful, diversified curriculum. In
1969/70 only 22% of the primary and preparatory teachers were qualified
(i.e. completed two years of academic and professional training beyond sec-
ondary education). Of the rest, 13% were university graduates without ped-
agogical training, 52% had secondary and some post-secondary education, and
13% had not completed secondary education. For 1970/71 the total number of
primary and preparatory teachers was estimated at 15,500 with a pupil teach-
er ratio of 34:1. Although the number of teachers is at present adequate,
additional supply is needed for future expansion and inservice training
should be provided for unqualified teachers.
3.05      Prior to the 1967 war, eight institutes for the training of prim-
ary and preparatory school teachers were operating in Jordan.  Since the
war the Ministry of Education controls only the three colleges in East
Jordan; a fourth is operated by UNRWA. The annual output from the first
three colleges is 350 which will be inadequate to meet future demands for
Government schools.
3.06      Secondary Education:  About 70% of the students completing Grade 9
in preparatory schools enter secondary education which is divided into gen-
eral, commercial, industrial and agricultural education (Annex 3). This
percentage is high and government policy is to effect a reduction from 1980
onwards. Between 1960 and 1970, secondary enrollment nearly quadrupled from
14,600 to 51,720 (Annex 2). The latter figure represented 35% of the second-
ary school-age children and is much higher than in a number of neighboring
countries. 1/ Girls account for 30% of the total enrolment. Repeater rate
at this level is low (5%) but drop-out rate (22%) should be reduced.
3.07      The development of secondary education has been biased in favor
of academic education: academic enrollment is too high in relation to en-
rollment of vocational education.  Only 9% of the students are enrolled in
vocational courses such as commercial, industrial, agricultural and nursing
programs. The remaining 91% (47,300 students) are in general secondary
education and follow purely academic courses: 21% in science and 70% in
literary fields. A growing number of graduates with general secondary edu-
cation face difficulty in finding suitable employment while the demand for
technicians and craftsmen is unsatisfied. A beginning has been made by
introducing general pre-vocational education as well as some commercial
and home economics training in a number of general secondary schools.
3.08      Commercial education is provided to about 2,000 students (in a pro-
portion of one female to two male students) but this number does not meet
the demand for qualified secretaries and typists and for people trained in
1/   Combined ratios for upper and lower secondary cycles:  Iran 21%,
Turkey 25% and Jordan 54% (see Annex 20).



-6-
business and office practice. The only advanced course for secretaries and
stenographers is conducted by UNRWA for 200 refugee students. Graduates
from this course are in great demand both in Jordan and the neighboring Arab
countries. Commercial education at the secondary level is handicapped by
lack of equipment, and there is no facility for providing advanced commercial
and business courses for Jordanian students.
3.09      Industrial education courses are attended by some 2,000 students
of whom 600 are enrolled in the Government secondary industrial schools
at Amman and Irbid. (Similar institutions are located at Jerusalem and Nablus
on the West Bank.) The schools have received considerable bilateral aid and
are generally well-equipped and staffed but their several curricula meet
neither the requirements of the future technician nor of the future craftsman.
The Government has accepted a suggestion that the school at Amman should follow
the curricula proposed for the new comprehensive schools and that Irbid should
be converted to a vocational training center. UNRWA has established schools
at Wadi Seer, Jerusalem, and Ramallah. Courses are held at two levels cor-
responding to the needs of the craftsman and of the lower level technician.
At Wadi Seer (East Bank) the enrollments at the two levels are 380 and 60,
respectively. The corresponding enrollments for the West Bank are 370 and
95.  Many of the graduates from the courses find employment in other Arab-
speaking countries. A small volume of individual training is offered by
other Government departments and by private undertakings, and there are
limited opportunities for evening attendance for those already in employment.
3.10      The Ministry of Education is responsible for agricultural education.
Two agricultural secondary schools in Shaubak and Rabbah, both in East Jordan,
provide training for middle-level agricultural technicians. Total enrollment
for the whole country in 1970 was 400. Judged by the few graduates now work-
ing in the field of agriculture, the program has not been very successful,
due partly to the very limited outlet in agricultural services resulting
from a temporary freeze in public service recruitment. The Ministry of Agri-
culture is insufficiently involved in agricultural education and agricultural
curricula require modification.  The Government has initiated steps to im-              4
prove this situation and has agreed to establish a coordinating committee,
to strengthen the cooperation between the two ministries with the view to
reforming curricula and to providing a link between agricultural schools
and research institutes. In the absence of a Faculty of Agriculture, most
graduates continue their agricultural studies outside of Jordan.  Some
graduates are employed as agricultural teachers for preparatory schools
although they have received no pedagogical training. The need in this
field is now for more advanced and professionally better prepared agricul-
tural teachers. Facilities for agricultural teacher training are lacking.
3.11      Secondary teachers of all types are recruited from graduates of
the University of Jordan and from those returning from overseas training,
but few are trained teachers. About 200 additional secondary teachers will
be required each year to staff Ministry of Education schools in East Jordan.



-7-
The present stock of teachers is 1,135 of whom 738 are university degree
holders and the rest have certificates in Physical education, art, home eco-
nomics, business administration and engineering. Pupil teacher ratio is
22:1. While the University will continue to meet the quantitative demand
for science and liberal arts teachers, the need for secondary vocational
and agricultural teachers will be met by training abroad. In the meantime
there is need to strengthen and improve the secondary teacher training pro-
gram in the Faculty of Science (para. 3.12).
3.12      Higher Education:  In 1970 a total of 6,500 students was enrolled
in university and post-secondary education in Jordan. The University of
Jordan has faculties of Arts, Science, and Economics and Commerce.  Total
enrollment is 2,700 students of whom 30% are girls. The science faculty
comprising 20% of the total enrollment, is well equipped, well staffed,
and amply provided with physical facilities.  But it is primarily concerned
with the training of pure scientists. UNDP (Special Fund) assistance has
been provided to the faculty since 1968 for the purpose of training secondary
school science teachers. It is only in the second year that students follow
professional courses in education and even then for not more than two hours
per week. This is inadequwte for training secondary school teachers. The
Faculty of Arts includes the Department of Education and Psychology where
91 students are following evening post-graduate diploma and M.A. courses
in education. The program for the training of science teachers needs to
be coordinated with that of the Department of Education. The College of
Islamic Law, a separate institution has an enrollment of 237 students. Out-
side the university system a total of 3,500 students are enrolled in post-
secondary teacher training, technical, commercial, agricultural, and para-
medical courses (Annex 3).
3.13      In 1969/70 some 24,000 Jordanians were pursuing higher education
abroad. Of these, 80% were in social sciences and humanities and only 20%
were in engineering, health, agriculture and other scientific studies. 75%
of these students were studying in neighboring Arab countries.
IV. EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
4.01      Lack of reliable educational and financial data for the West Bank
is a major obstacle to effective national educational planning. However,
the Ministry of Education is aware of major deficiencies of the educational
system including the following:
a)   Uncontrolled expansion of enrollment:  Primary and secondary
enrollments have been permitted to expand without corresponding
increases in physical facilities and teaching staff. This has
adversely affected the quality of education.



- 8 -
b)   Imbalance between general secondary and vocational education:
The present secondary curriculum does not reflect the country's
priority need for vocational education and training (para.
3.07).
4.02      The Government has accorded top priority to the task of improving
the quality of education by correcting these deficiencies as follows: (i)
limiting enrollment expansion to a rate substantially below the growth rate
in the recent past; (ii) increasing the supply of qualified teachers and
upgrading teachers in service; and (iii) diversifying the curricula of both
preparatory and secondary schools to include vocationally-oriented courses.
4.03      Government plans for the expansion of enrollments are as follows:
Primary enrollment will be allowed to increase from 422,000 to 598,000 by
1980; this would represent an annual rate of increase approximately the
same as that of the population of the primary age group. Enrollment in
preparatory schools will be allowed to increase from the present 111,000
to 178,000 by 1980, representing a growth rate of 4.8% per annum, which is
slightly higher than the growth rate of the relevant age group and would
raise the enrollment ratio from 67% to 80% by 1980 (Annex 4). Similarly,
secondary enrollment will increase from 51,000 to 94,000 by 1980, which
represents an increase in secondary enrollment ratio from 35% to 46% (Annex
4). The present plans represent a first attempt to control expansion and
is more realistic than earlier expansion targets. Even these more modest
plans, however, could well exceed the available financial resources (para.
5.09) and the government has agreed to review the plans periodically in
the light of prevailing budgetary and other constraints and the need to
improve the quality of education.
4.04      Government efforts in enrollment control will go hand in hand with
programs for qualitative improvement of education at all levels. In partic-
ular the priority need for qualitative improvement at the primary and pre-
paratory levels will be met by strengthening the teaching of science, agri-
culture and educational handicrafts, by increasing the supply of qualified
teachers, and by providing locally produced teaching material and equipment.
The Government has appointed a commission which has already undertaken the
revision of primary school curricula and will later address itself to the
task of improving preparatory and secondary curricula as well as providing
suitable textbooks and teaching materials.
4.05      The supply of qualified teachers who could teach all subjects at
the primary level and specialized subjects at preparatory schools needs to
be increased. By 1975 the Ministry of Education schools in East Jordan will
require 700 primary and preparatory teachers per year (Annexes 5 and 6). In
addition, 30 agricultural and 20 vocational teachers per year will be needed.
At present no facilities exist for training agricultural and vocational
teachers for preparatory schools. Most of the agricultural teachers now
teaching in some 300 rural preparatory schools offering agricultural activi-
ties as part of general education, are graduates of agricultural secondary
schools and have had no teacher training. Preparatory schools in urban com-
munities also suffer from lack of vocational instructors.



-9-
4.06      To meet these needs the government intends, as part of the pro-
posed project, to establish a new Teacher Training College and two teacher
training sections to be attached to a new Polytechnic and an existing agri-
cultural secondary school. These institutions would meet the immediate
needs of the East Bank and would still be needed if the government regained
control of the schools on the West Bank.
4.07      The proposed Teacher Training College would provide general and
specialized teachers for primary and preparatory schools, while two proposed
teacher training sections will meet the need for agricultural and for indus-
trial teachers. At a later stage the existing teacher training program will
be reorganized and improved by making a distinction in the training of
teachers for the primary and preparatory cycles. UNRWA is at present ex-
perimenting with this proposal. In an effort to improve the quality of
teachers, UNICEF has already undertaken to upgrade some 7,000 primary and
preparatory teachers by 1977. To assure an adequate supply of teacher train-
ers the Government has requested UNDP for the development of a project for
research and graduate studies, including the training of science professors
for the teacher training institutes.
4.08      To redress the present imbalance between academic and vocational
secondary education, the latter will expand faster than general secondary
enrollment. In East Jordan, where Government control is possible, prevoca-
tional and vocational enrollment will increase six-fold while the increase
in general secondary enrollment will be about 50% (Annex 7, page 2). By
1980 the proportion of prevocational and vocational education is expected to
approach 30% of the total secondary enrollment as compared with 9% at present.
In an effort to diversify the general secondary curricula, pre-vocational
courses in agriculture, home economics, commercial and industrial education
will be introduced in some schools. The development of these curricula and
more specialized vocational courses will at the same time prepare the indi-
vidual for a more productive life and adapt the school system to the devel-
opment needs of the country.
4.09      Attainment of these objectives will not only require the creation
of additional places in technical secondary schools but effective measures
to raise the status of technical secondary education and thus bridge the gap
between academic and technical studies. To that effect the Government wants
to experiment with new forms of secondary education and will gradually in-
troduce comprehensive schools for which IDA assistance is sought. These
would provide a pilot program in the country's efforts to reform secondary
education.
4.10      Present deficiencies in the training of skilled industrial crafts-
men and technicians (para. 2.11 and 3.09) call for urgent attention. The
Government plans to establish a National Vocational Training Council which
will help translate manpower requirements into training programs, develop
training standards and review salary policies for technical personnel. Mean-
while manpower needs in this field require an immediate expansion of train-
ing facilities and the Government has decided to establish a combined poly-
technic (post-secondary) and trade training center (post-preparatory) for
which IDA assistance is proposed.



- 10 -
4.11      The reform measures mentioned above will require the services of
qualified personnel not now available in Jordan.  Main areas where technical
assistance is urgently needed are: (a) educational planning, (b) planning
and coordination of the technical courses in the comprehensive schools,
(c) project implementation, (d) reorganization of technical and trade
training. The government has requested UNDP/ILO support for the latter
need; under the proposed project IDA would provide technical assistance and
scholarships to meet the needs mentioned under (a), (b) and (c). The Govern-
ment has agreed to strengthen its planning mechanism by appointing qualified
Jordanian counterparts to the technical assistance staff provided under (a)
and by setting up a Planning Committee within the Ministry of Education.
V. COST AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION
5.01      Since the 1967 war, the burden of education expenditure has con-
siderably increased. In the ten years prior to 1967, both GNP and educa-
tional expenditure grew at an annual rate of nearly 10% in real terms and
education's share in total GNP remained more or less constant at about
4-1/2%. Since 1967, education expenditure patterns are confused as a result
of the lack of data on the occupied West Bank and by the fact that the Jordan
government continued the payment of salaries to West Bank teachers. If one
excludes such payments, the total education expenditure for the East Bank
in 1970 amounted to JD 8.5 million, representing 6.5% of East Bank's GNP.
The latter percentage not only reflects the higher costs of education, but
also the current low level of economic activity. Including government ex-
penditures on West Bank education these figures amount to JD 10.6 million
and 8.1% respectively.
The system of financing
5.02      The sources of education finance have changed little since 1967
(Annex 8). In 1970 the Ministry of Education provided 56% of national edu-
cation expenditure. Other ministries accounted for 10% and local authori-
ties for 5%. The remaining 29% is shared by UNRWA (19%) and private sources
(10%). The contribution of the Ministry of Education is entirely spent on
government schools at primary, preparatory and secondary levels for which
the Ministry is directly responsible. Cost of these schools is partly cov-
ered by contributions from local authorities and from UNRWA. School fees
and other contributions from pupils and parents are negligible at these
levels. The University normally receives a grant of JD 120,000 per year
from the Ministry of Finance but in 1970 this grant was increased to
JD 320,000. In addition, it receives the yield of a 1% tax on imports, the
latter normally constituting about 50% of its total resources. The rest of
its revenue is derived from non-government contributions.



- 11 -
5.03      UNRWA contributes to the Jordan educational system in two ways:  by
operating its own schools for refugees and by paying the Jordan government
for some refugee children enrolled in Ministry of Education schools. Com-
pared with the share of refugees in the total East Bank population of about
50%, the 19% share of UNRWA in education finance appears to be on the low
side. The reason is that a large number of the refugees are not eligible
for UNRWA aid in the field of education.
Public education expenditure
5.04      In 1970 education expenditures by the Ministry of Education and
other Ministries in East Jordan accounted for 17% of the Government's domes-
tic resources (excluding foreign aid). Recurrent expenditures amounted to
JD 5.0 million and capital expenditures to JD 0.7 million.
5.05      About 70% of total education expenditures are devoted to primary
and preparatory education (the compulsory level) and the remaining 30% is
equally shared by secondary and higher education (Annex 9). Secondary voca-
tional education uses only a low 3% of education resources, which is another
indication of the low priority so far accorded to this type of education in
Jordan.
5.06      Costs per pupil are relatively low in Jordan.  The main reason is
the low teacher salaries: on the average, a primary school teacher earns
JD 425 per year, a preparatory school teacher JD 500, and a general secondary
school teacher JD 600.
5.07      Material expenditures are at a very Low level contributing to gen-
erally low standards of educational facilities and the nearly complete ab-
sence of maintenance of school buildings. A change of policy in this field
is much needed.
5.08      In the last five years capital expenditures accounted for about 10%
of total education expenditures, which was too low to provide the required
numbers of classrooms. In practice, this gap has been filled by increasing
the numbers of rented classrooms: in the compulsory cycle, about 60% of the
classrooms in use by the Ministry of Education are rented. Renting is at-
tractive from a short-term budgetary point of view, as the rents are gener-
ally very low and on the average they represent only a small percentage of
the capital outlays needed to replace the buildings. However, most of the
rented facilities are unsuitable for school use and should be replaced gradu-
ally. To provide sufficient places for newly admitted pupils the present
level of investment would need to be doubled. A further increase would be
necessary if the replacement of the existing rented accommodations is to be
undertaken.



- 12 -
Future expenditures
5.09      Projections of future education expenditure for the East Bank
(Annex 10) show it is unlikely that the proportion of education expenditure
to GNP will return to its pre-1967 level. Provided the Government succeeds
in keeping salary increases at a low level and enrollment growth within the
limits of present plans (para. 4.03 and Annexes 4 and 7) education expendi-
ture will rise by about 8% per annum in real terms. A most optimistic pro-
jection of GNP growth would also be 8% p.a. in which case education would
continue to require about 6.5% of GNP till 1980. If GNP increases only 4% p.a.
the share of education in GNP would go up to 9.0%. A crucial factor in the
amount of government resources required is the continued contribution of
UNRWA and private sources of 30% of the total education bill. If this con-
tribution would remain at its present level, then, depending on the growth
rates of GNP the claim of education on the Government domestic revenue would
be respectively 17 and 24% in 1980.
5.10      Spending on education will gradually shift from the compulsory
level to secondary education and within the latter to the vocational types.
It is expected that by 1980 vocational education and training will claim
about 15% of the education budget as compared with 3% in 1970.
5.11      The proposed project would have only a small impact on future ex-
penditures - JD 250,000 or 2.5% of total recurrent expenditures in 1975.
Its total cost of JD 2.98 million covers 24% of educational investment for
1971-1975.
VI. THE PROJECT
6.01      The proposed project would help to finance (i) construction and
equipment for existing and new facilities, as shown below, and (ii) technical
assistance equivalent to ten expert man-years and 11 fellowship man-years.



-13-
Accommodation
Student    Student        Staff
Enrollments  Boarding      Housing
Grades  No.  New   Total  New  Total  New  Total
Type of Institution
Secondary Education
Comprehensive Secondary
Schools                    10-12   2  2,000  2,000
Vocational Training
Polytechnic                  13-14
and
Trade Training Center        10-12
( includes science equip-
ment production center)              1    715    715  220   220    -       -
Teacher Training
Teacher Training Institute  13-14   1    700    700  420   420    1         1
Agricultural Teacher Train-
ing Section (Extension)   13-14   1       60    200   60   200    -       -
Technical Teacher Training
Section (a special section
of the Polytechnic)        13-14          40     40   40    40
Total                   5  3,515  3,655  740   880    1       1
*           Comprehensive Secondary Schools (Amman)
6.02      The two comprehensive secondary schools (one for boys, one for
girls) both to be located in Amman, will provide three-year general and
vocationally-oriented secondary education for 2,000 students and are in-
tended to form a first step to remedy major deficiencies of the secondary
school system. The existing system of secondary education is strongly
biased towards academic and literary, education. Moreover, 35% of the
secondary students are in unsuitable rented buildings. New construction
at secondary level will provide for replacement of existing rented accommo-
dations. The proposed curricula (Annex 11) will allow for specialization
in literary subjects, mathematics and sciences, industrial arts (for boys),
home economics (for girls) and commercial studies. In addition, the girls'
secondary school will offer two-year post-secondary courses in institutional



- 14 -
management and advanced comnnercial studies each for 60 students. Women's
participation in the labor force is still very low (para. 2.02) although
significant in selected occupations such as teaching. A gradual improve-
ment can be expected in fields where employers will realize the benefits
of women's employment such as in health, nutrition, secretarial work and
certain industries. The major benefits of supporting the education and
training of girls in a traditional society, however, are the long term
effects on the transformation of society through a better preparation of
the new generations. The enrollment in the proposed schools will be about
equally divided among arts, science and vocationally oriented education.
The two schools together will graduate 610 students per year (210 literary,
180 science, 70 industrial arts, 55 home economics and institutional manage-
ment, 95 commercial studies).
6.03      The project will provide the academic and communal facilities and
equipment for the two schools. University graduates will be recruited to
teach in the schools. The supply of teachers is adequate. In 1970/71 the
Department of Education of the University graduated 220 teachers in languages,
social science and physical education including 30 with Diploma in Education,
and 25 with M.A. in guidance, supervision, and teacher training. In addition,
some 50 teachers of science and mathematics were expected to graduate from
the Faculty of Science. The Faculty of Economics and Commerce will supply
the teachers of commerce needed. The project provides for technical assis-
tance in the form of an advisor in industrial arts (four man-years) and for
fellowships (96 man-months) to train industrial arts and home economics
teachers abroad. Jordanian staff qualified to fill the positions of directors
and deputy directors of the two schools are available and would be appointed
to these positions well before the opening of the schools. Assurances to
this effect have been obtained during negotiation.
Polytechnic and Trade Training Center (Marka)
6.04      The proposed project will finance the construction and equipment
of a polytechnic and trade training center at Marka, a rapidly growing in-
dustrial area located midway between Zarka and Amman and within easy reach
of both. The polytechnic will offer two-year post-secondary full-time
courses leading either to further training or to direct employment at
middle-technician level in architecture, building and engineering. Since
this project item is a national institution students will be recruited from
all parts of the country and boarding facilities have therefore been provided
for about 35% of the 755 students. The courses are well planned and provide
a form of training not presently available in Jordan. Additional courses in
the polytechnic will provide for the training of technical instructors (20
per year) and laboratory technicians (30 per year) essential to the develop-
ment of vocationally-biased courses within the educational system.
6.05      The trade training center will offer one or two-year post-
preparatory full-time courses leading to direct employment at the craft level.
The training will be more widely based than that presently available through
on-the-job training and the output should provide a source for future promo-
tion to supervisory or lower-technician positions. The proposed courses are



- 15 -
directly related to the development needs of the economy although these needs
cannot be exactly quantified under the existing conditions.
6.06      A small manufacturing unit will be attached to the polytechnic and
trade training center for the production of prototype scientific equipment
for use in the schools. Economy of operation will be secured by the use of
the specialized equipment already installed in the institution and the pro-
totypes produced will serve as practical workshop exercises for schools and
other training institutions.
6.07      The student enrollment and staffing needs are as shown in Annexes 12,
and 15, together with the estimated outputs at technician (190) and craft (167)
levels. The latter figure will be supplemented by the outputs from other trade
training centers and on-the-job training. It is considered that an adequate
*      supply of teachers can be recruited from among those having higher training
abroad but that during the first three to four years it will be necessary to
provide technical assistance in the form of expert services (33 man-years) and
fellowships (243 man-months). The Government's endeavor to secure such as-
sistance partly from the United Nations Development Programme and partly
from bilateral sources has met with initial success. Assistance in the
field is essential for the successful operation of this project item and
for the establishment of a national vocational training scheme (para. 4.10).
Assurances have been obtained from the government that satisfactory technic-
al assistance arrangements will be made within one year of the date of sign-
ing of the credit. The curricula, examples of which are shown in Annex 11
pages 3 and 4 are satisfactory.
6.08      The administration of the polytechnic and trade training center
should provide for a director with overall responsibility, supported by two
deputy-directors separately responsible for the polytechnic and the trade-
training sections. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
director and deputy directors will be appointed within one year of the sign-
ing of the Credit Agreement. Government proposals to establish a National
'       Vocational Council with a Vocational Training Department as its executive
arm, will obviously have impact upon the nature of the trade training to be
given in the trade training center but the day-to-day administration of the
institution as a wlhole should remain within the authority of its director
subject only to the decisions of an especially appointed governing body or
council fully representative of those sections of the economy for which the
students are prepared. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
the Government will establish the National Vocational Council and the
governing body for the Polytechnic within one year of the signing of the
Credit agreement.
6.09      The location of the institution in a growing industrial area and
the planning of a new main road immediately adjacent to the site and join-
ing the large centers of Zarka and Amman, will favor the development of
evening courses covering a wide range of subjects appropriate to the needs
of those already in employment in the area.



- 16 -
Teacher Training Institute (Salt)
6.10      The proposed teacher training college to be located at Salt will
provide two-year post-secondary courses to train primary and preparatory
school teachers. The college will be co-educational. Residential facili-
ties will be provided for 420 of the 700 students a large proportion of
whom are recruited from the provinces. Graduates from the college are ex-
pected to teach all subjects at the primary level and specialized subjects
at the preparatory level.  A distinction is later to be made in the training
of teachers for these two levels. The annual intake will be 350 comprising
265 with major emphasis on mathematics and sciences, 46 in literary subjects,
and 13 each in home economics, physical education and fine arts (Annex 12)
Together with the existing teacher training colleges in Ammian, Huwara and
Ajloun, the proposed new college, with an output of 320 teachers per year
will double the present supply of teachers in East Jordan and will enable the
Government to meet teacher requirements. The curriculum of the teacher train-
ing colleges is satisfactory (Annex 13). The project will provide teaching
and boarding facilities, a staff house and 24 man-months of fellowships for
overseas training of selected staff members. Assurances for the appointment
of a qualified director and assistant director was obtained during negotia-
tions.
Agriculture Teacher Training Extension (Shaubak)
6.11      The project would provide for the extension of the existing agri-
cultural school at Shaubak to include a two-year post-secondary teacher
training program (Annex 14). Agricultural activities form an integral part
of the rural school curriculum for which there is no present supply of tea-
chers in East Jordan. The new section with an annual output of 30 teachers
will meet the need for preparatory schools. The school, located near an
agricultural experimental station, will draw on the research staff and teach-
ing material of the latter. The agricultural teachers will assist in exten-
sion work, thus bridging the gap between agricultural education and extension
service.  The project will provide boarding, library and transportation facil-
ities for this section. Boarding facilities are already provided for existing
students.
Technical Assistance
6.12      There is a critical slhortage of trained Jordanians to (a) staff
the educational planning and project implementation units of the Ministry
of Education; (b) coordinate the program and management of the proposed com-
prehensive secondary schools; (c) head the Professional Departments of the
proposed teacher training institute; and (d) staff the proposed polytechnic
and trade training center. The Government has requested the U.K. and UNDP/
ILO to provide assistance in the form of 37 man-years of expert instructors
and 18 man-years of fellowships for the proposed polytechnic and trade
training center. Additional technical assistance equivalent to ten man-years
and 11 fellowships would be provided as part of the present project (Annex 15).



- 17 -
Evaluation of the Project
6.13      The project is designed to meet the needs outlined in Chapter IV
above. To enable the Government and IDA to assess the ultimate success of
the proposed project in attaining its objectives, the Government has agreed
to establish a "tracer system" for all project institutions and for a limited
number of the more traditional secondary schools which would provide early
and precise information on the further education and employment of school
leavers. Records would also be kept on the rate of drop-out and repetition
in the same institutions.
Cost of the Project
6.14      The estimated costs and foreign exchange components of the various
parts of the project are summarized below.  These exclude technical assistance
estimated at US$1.2 million to be provided by the U.K. and UNDP/ILO. (More
details are given in Annex 16).
Jordanian Dinar            US$
(millions)            (millions)       % of
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Total
1. Comprehensive Secondary
School (Boys)              0.11   0.16   0.27   0.31   0.45   0.76    8.8
2. Comprehensive Secondary
School (Girls)             0.11   0.15   0.26   0.31   0.42   0.73    8.5
3. Polytechnic and Trade
Training Center            0.39   0.74   1.13   1.08   2.06   3.14   36.4
4. Teacher Training Institute  0.26   0.36   0.62   0.74   1.01   1.75   20.3
5. Agricultural Teacher
Training Section           0.02   0.04   0.06   0.06   0.12   0.18    2.1
6. Technical Assistance          0.03   0.11   0.14   0.07   0.31   0.38    4.4
Sub-Total             0.92   1.56   2.48   2.57   4.37   6.94   80.5
7. Contingencies
(a) Physical                0.09   0.10   0.19   0.24   0.29   0.53    6.2
(b) Price                   0.16   0.25   0.41   0.45   0.70   1.15   13.3
Total Project Cost   1.17   1.91   3.08   3.26   5.36   8.62  100.0
6.15      A breakdown of the cost by types of expenditure would be as follows:



- 18 -
Jordanian Dinar             US$
(millions)            (millions)        % of
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Total
1. Construction
a. Academic and Communal    0.55   0.48   1.03   1.54   1.34   2.88   33.4
b. Boarding                   0.15   0.13   0.28   0.41   0.37   0.78    9.1
c. Staff Housing              0.01   0.00   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.03    0.3
d. Site Development           0.11   0.05   0.16   0.31   0.14   0.45    5.2
e. Professional Services    0.04   0.11   0.15   0.12   0.30   0.42    4.9
Sub-Total             0.86   0.77   1.63   2.40   2.16   4.56   52.9
2. Furniture                     0.01   0.19   0.20   0.03   0.52   0.55    6.4
3. Equipment                     0.02   0.49   0.51   0.07   1.38   1.45   16.8
Sub-Total             0.03   0.68   0.71   0.10   1.90   2.00   23.2
4. Technical Assistance          0.03   0.11   0.14   0.07   0.31   0.38    4.4
Total                 0.92   1.56   2.48   2.57   4.37   6.94   80.5
5. Contingencies
a. Physical                   0.09   0.10   0.19   0.24   0.29   0.53    6.2
b. Price                      0.16   0.25   0.41   0.45   0.70   1.15   13.3
Total Project Cost   1.17   1.91   3.08   3.26   5.36   8.62  100.0
6.16      The cost estimates for school buildings in the proposed project
are based on contracts concluded by the Ministry of Public Works in the past
two years and on information obtained from public and private enterprises.
The estimated school construction cost per square meter of gross floor area
(Amman prices of June, 1971) is US$95 equivalent excluding central heating
and US$106 equivalent including central heating. These costs and estimated
unit costs per student place of the project institutions are reasonable in
relation to other Bank-IDA financed projects and the average utilization of
the facilities would be about 80% of the 40 periods weekly teaching load
(Annex 17). A local cost adjustment of 5% of the basic price has been made
for Marka, 10% for Salt and 30% for Shaubak due to transportation costs and
lack of local skilled labor. Site development costs are estimated to be
between 10-15% of building cost depending on conditions of each site.
6.17      The cost of the project includes a contingency allowance for un-
foreseen factors, equal to 10% of the estimated costs for buildings, site
development and professional services and 5% for equipment costs (Annex 18).
Based on the average annual increase in recent years, the estimated unit
costs are expected to increase 6-7% p.a. and the project cost, therefore,
would also include a price increase allowance to cover possible cost in-
creases during the implementation period equal to 18% for buildings, site



- 19 _
development, and professional services, 15% for furniture and equipment and
10% for technical assistance (Annex 17). Thus, the contingency amount for
unforeseen factors and price escalation represents about 20% of the total
project cost.
6.18      The foreign exchange component of US$5.4 million representing
about 60% of the total project cost, has been calculated as follows: (i)
site development 30%; (ii) buildings 45%; (iii) professional services 70%;
(iv) furniture and equipment 95%; and (v) technical assistance 80%.
6.19      The foreign exchange cost estimates, originally determined on the
basis of prevailing prices and dollar equivalents at the time of appraisal,
have since been adjusted upwards to reflect the recent variations in cur-
rency exchange rates. The resulting foreign exchange component of US$5.4
million represents about 60% of the total project cost.
VII. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
7.01      The Project Unit:  A special unit has been established within the
Ministry of Education for: (a) supervision; (b) coordination within the
Ministry and with other government agencies, and (c) liaison with the Asso-
ciation. The Director of the unit will report directly to the Minister of
Education. The unit will include: (a) a project director; (b) a techni-
cal staff consisting of a project architect and a specialist in equipment
and furniture procurement, the latter included in the technical assistance
component of this project, and (c) a qualified accountant. A full-time
project director and a full-time project architect, both acceptable to the
Association have been appointed.
7.02      Professional Services:  The implementation of the project would
require employment of professional manpower beyond the government's present
resources.  A consulting firm of architects and engineers, acceptable to the
Association, would therefore, be needed for the design and supervision of
construction. The process of selecting a consulting firm is already under-
way and the Government expects to select a firm before the end of February,
1972.
7.03      Site Acquisition:  Satisfactory sites have been selected for all
the schools in the project. Most of the sites are already owned by the M1in-
istry of Education and assurances have been obtained that legal title will
be received for all sites within six months of the date of signing of the
Credit agreement.
7.04      Procurement:  All contracts for the supply of furniture and equip-
ment and for construction of schools would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding. The number of local general contractors is
adequate to carry out construction work under the project. Except for equip-
ment, most of which will be imported, it is unlikely that the project would
attract many foreign bidders. Local furniture manufacturers would be allowed



- 20 -
a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports. The
existing rates of protection are above this limit. It is, therefore, un-
likely that the local furniture industry will be competitive and furniture
contracts are likely to be awarded to foreign suppliers.
7.05      Disbursements:  Bank/IDA would disburse or reimburse the c.i.f.
cost of imported furniture and equipment or 75% of such items if procured
locally, 45% of the cost of civil and 100% of the foreign cost of profes-
sional services aid technical assistance. The project would be carried
out in about 4-1/4 years (Annexes 19 and 20), and construction would be
completed in 2-3/4 years.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During the negotiations, agreement has been reached that the
Government would:
(i) complete a comprehensive manpower survey (para. 2.09);
(ii) establish a coordinating committee for agricultural education
(para. 3.10);
(iii) establish a Teacher Training Curriculum Committee (paras. 3.11
and 3.12);
(iv) review periodically its plans and programs for expansion of
enrollment and communicate the results of such review to the
Association (para. 4.03);
(v) establish an Educational Planning Committee within the Ministry
of Education (para. 4.11);
(vi) appoint qualified directors and assistant directors for the
comprehensive schools, the Polytechnic and Training Center and
the Teacher Training Institute (paras. 6.03, 6.08 and 6.10);
(vii) establish a National Vocational Council (para. 6.08);
(viii)  establish an advisory council for the Polytechnic and Trade
Training Center (para. 6.08); and
(ix) establish a "tracer system" and procedures for collecting in-
formation concerning premature termination of education, repeti-
tion, employment and advanced studies of graduates of all insti-
tutions included in the project and for a limited number of
secondary schools (para. 6.13).



- 21 -
8.02      During the negotiations the Government has provided satisfactory
information about the availability of bilateral and UNDP/ILO technical as-
sistance for the staffing of the Polytechnic and Trade Training Center
(paras. 4.11 and 6.07).
8.03      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit of
US$5.4 million to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
0






ANNEX 1
JORDAN - LAST AND WEST BANKS
Non-Agricultural  aniPower Requirements for Large Establishments
( 1968 - 1975 )
Demand for         Replacements    Number of
<            Labor              for Death    Persons Needed
Category ,                           Increase     and       Total       Per
1968     1975      1968-75 1 Retirement  Period       Year
A-1  Professionals -       2,800     3,900     1,100          300    1,400         200
*            scientific and              I
technical 
A-2 Professionals -    13,300    20,300        7,000        1,500    8,500       1,213
arts based             -
A    Subtotal:           16,100    24,200      8,100        1,800    9,900       1,4j10
Professionals
B-1  Subprofessionals -   3,500      4 4,600   1,100         4b0    1,500          220
scientific and
technical
B-2  Subprofessionals -  15,500    22,700       7,200       1,700    8,900       1,270
arts based
B    Subtotal:            19,000    27,300     8,300        2,100   10,400       1,490
Subprofessionals
C-1  Skilled Office      1U,600    17,100      5,500        1,300    6,800         970
Workers
C-2  Skil ed Manual      14,000    20,600      6,600   I   1,600    8,200        1,170
Workers                -                                                    1 17_
C    Subtotal:            25,600    37,700    12,100        2,900   15,000       2,140
Skilled Workers
D    Other Workers        34,200    47, 4o0    13,200       3,900   17,100       2, 44o
GRAND TOTAL         94,900   136,600    41,7oo        10,700   t2 ,400 | 7,480
Source: Jordan Development Board.
January 12, 1972



ANN9EX 2
Enrollment by Type of Education and Grade in East and West Bank. 1970/7].
I Compulsory Education                                                           Priary                                                               Preparatory
Gradej    2~d      Grd        rd Grade             6.d                   %        Grads*   Grade:  Grade                 I 7
_______ ______ ______ _______ ____  _ ______ _____2    3__ _ _    _ _ _ 4____ 6                  T  ural [Girls          7          8         9       T  ota l  Girla
Eao.L2-d-                                57,415   56,774   47,395   45,432   37,720   32,883 F277~,619    43                29,917   20,735   16,055    66,707   36
We-t Punk                                31.698   26.583   25 330  J24M00   18 924   16,807   14,4                 45       15_705   16.037   1269          44,43       37
Total                                 89,113   83,357   72,725   69,432   57,644   49,698   421,961    44                45,622   36,772   28,746    111,140    36
lB    General S-cud-ry Ed-catiun                      10      11         1 2      Ttl       ',Gis
Boast jurdau                             13,073    7,530    7,329   27,952           29
Weut Bonk                                8.484    5,340    5.522   19.346            38
Total                                 21.517   1 2,890 12.851  47.298             289
Ill    Wocatiunol lducotlau             ~~~~10   I1        12       Ttl          Grs            3       4       1 Total  Girl.
Eoot Joena  (Total)                       1,120       999[    834    2,953          679           190    113        52        355          173
C- Coorial (Business)                      583       517       556    1,636        651            36      22        -         39 
*I.du-ttiol (Technical)                    458       370        185    1,011        -             27      32        -         59 
-Agic-lt-rul                                82       103         93       278       --                     -        -- 
11..uruBc  (.nd Midwifery)                 19         9          -        28       28            83      36       5         17           153
- Burial Work (StatIstics)     -        -         - -       -      ~-             44j   23          -          67          20
ou-t lur,k(ua)                              566       549       354    1,469        175          193    133         38        364           80
Cuoccrrifol (ond Osuinesa)1208             2         1        372       -             85      70        -         155          72
- tuimnuolul                    ~~~~      ~~393  376  197       966      '75           70       25        -         95            0
-Agti-~lt-rl                                45        45         41~I     131       -             38~  38'    38             114            -
Tutul East and W,e.t                1,686    1,548       1,1883    4,422       854          33      246       90         719         253
_IV       eoerI-ji   (Prisarn              Exapaxa0uurtr)                                                   13      14       15       Toa           GiB
East J-rdos (Total)                                                                             710    572                  82K          317
- Iiultry of Eduction                                                                         459    271                   730          197
M iiRWA                                                                                       134    193                   327          120
- PrIvate                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~117j  108 ,225 
West lash (Total)                                                                              592    838                 1,30           571
-  ifoistry uf Educa.tion                                                                     190    203                   393          160
- JEAWA                                                                                       175    473          -        648          395
-Pri-ote                                                                                      227    162                   38           118
Ttutl Boot u-d Went                                                                      1302  11,410         -      2,188
V                                              FooriyB,ero  irst Yr.  S-cood Yr,- Third Yr. jfour~th Yr.  Pirut Yr. Diploma! Second Yr. Diplona  M.A. Ed.   Total        Girl.
oust jordani 
F-Ifuty uf Arts                          296       245          223          261                 34                   32            J25           1. 116     400
-Faculty of Sci.eno                      190       121         108            78                  ---                                               497      174
F-1auly of Ico. & Co-r-ec                310       248          244          268                  -          I          --                        1,070       219
-  olg   f Islamic Low               90        81          40            26                                        -                          237         82
Total Boot Jurda                     886        695         615           633                34                    32               25      J 2,920       875
Wear Bank (Private)                        89        52           -             -                                                                      41      48
Tutal East and W-st                 975       747          615           633                342                                    2         3,061       923
Janury 12, 1972



JORDAN - EAST AND WEST BANKS
Enrollments by Type and Authority, 1,70/71
|  Total                   East Bank (Actual)                                           West Bank (Estimated)
Jordan                   ~~~~~Other                                                   Other
Level & Type                     _            Total      M.O.E.      Ministries  UNRWA        Private      Total      M.O.E.    Ministries  UNRWA          Private
Kinde     e                       19,674    10,674         _              51        -        10,623         9,000        -           -          -          9,000
Primary                          421,961   277,619    190,121         1,678      65,967      19,853      144,342    111,351         180       23,622       9,189
Preparatory                     (111,140)   66,707)   (45,335)          (555)   (16,590)     (4,227)     (44,433)   (34,218)    (120)          7,089)     (3,006)
General Ed,               110,857    66,707       45,335         555      16,590       4,227       44,150      34,218        -         7,089       2,843
Vocational                    283        -          -             -         -            -            283        -          120          -           163
Secondary                        (51,720)  (30,905)   (24,815)          (551)       (376)    (5,163)      (20,815)   (17,202)    (137)          (371)    (3,105)
General Ed.                47,298    27,952       22,312         523        -          5,117       19,346      16,408        90          -         2,848
Commercial                  2,008      1,636       1,636          _    -                 -            372         330        _           -            42
Industrial Arts             1,977      1,011         597          _          376          38          966         333        47          371         215
Agriculture                   409        278         270          -          -             8          131         131        -           -            -
Asst. Nursing                  28         28         -            28         _     -           -            -          -                 -            -
Higher Education                   (6,492)   (4,557)        (730)    (3,158)        (444)       (225)      (1,935)       (507)       _          (898)       (530)
University                  3,061      2,920         -         2,920         -           -            141         _     -                -           141
Teacher Training            2,712      1,282         730          -          327         225        1,430         393        _           648         389
Nursing                       154        154         -           154         _     -                  -          -                  -          -
Social Welfare                 53         53         -            53                                        -          -                 -          -
Technical                     154         59         _            -           59         _             95        _                         95        -
Business Management           213         58         -            -           58         _            155        -           _            155        -
Statistics                     14         14         -            14         _-                                              -                 -
Agriculture                   114         -          -            -          _           _             114         114        _           _
Midwifery                      17         17         -            17         _-                        - 
Special Education                    702        336         -           281         -            55          366        -          335          _            31
Total                    611,689  390,798    261,001         6,274      83,377      40,146      220,89l    163,278        772       31,980      24,861
Source: Ministry of Education
January 12, 19/2



JORDAN - EAST and WEST BANKS
All Authorities
Primary, Preparatory and Secondary (General and Vocational) Enrollment Projections
( 1970/71 - 1980/11 )
Level         Bank           1970/71      1971/72       1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76       1976/77      1977/78      1978/79       1979/80      1980/81
East           277,619      291,541      305,379       316,227      328,123      335,795      345,867       356,243      366,926      377,931       389,279
Primary           West            144,342      156,982      164.430      170,275       176Z680      180,810      186,235      191,821       197,554      203,497      209,608
Total        421,961      448,523      469,809      486,502       504,803      516,605      532,102      548,064       564,480      581,428      598,887
East            66,707       75,180        81,419       85,874       90,170       98,711      102,829       107,669      109,317      112,596       115,974
Preparatory       West             44,433       40.481       43,841       46,242       48,552        53 151       55,370       57,974        58,863       60,627       62,447
Total        111,140      115,661      125,260       132,116      138,722      151,862      158,199       165,643      168,180      173,223      178,421
Secondary         East             30,905       31,680       34,656       37,819       42,623        46,161       48,687       51,123        55,966       58,299       61,043
(General and
Vocational)       West             20,815       17,052       18,655       20,363        22,953       24,850       26,215       27,524        30,135       31,388       32 865
Total         51,720       48,732       53,311        58,182       65,576       71,011       74,902        78,647       86,101       89,687       93,908
East           375,203      398,401      421,454       439,920      460,916      480,667      497,383       515,035      532,209      548,826      566,296
TOTAL
West           209.590       214,515     226,926       236,880      248,185      258,811      267,820       277,319      286,552      295,512      304,920
Total        584,793      612,916      648,380      676,800       709,101      739,478      765,203       792,354      818,761      844,338      871,216
Source: Ministry of Education
January 12, 1972
Lac



JORDAN - EAST BANK
Ministry of Education Schools
Primary, Preparatory, Secondary (General and Vocational) Enrollment Projections
( 1970/71 - 1980/81 )
Type             Grade/Year       1970/71      1971/72     1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80     1980/81
1          37,991        41,394       42,637      43,916       45,234       46,590       47,987       49,427       50,909       52,436       54,009
2          38,838        38,985       40,152      41,326       42,598       43,876       45,192       46,547       47,943       49,382       50,862
Primary
Education               3           32,348        38,350       37,620      38,746       39,910       41,107       42,339       43,610       44,918       46,265       47,665
4          32,432        31,849       36,815       36,115       37,195      38,313        39,463      40,646       41,865       43,121       44,410
5          26,169        29,734       29,778       34,422       33,767      34,778       35,823       36,897       38,003       39,144       40,317
6          22.342        23,763       26,761       26.800      30,979       30,390      _31,299       32,240       33,207       34,202       35,229
Primary Total                      204075       213,763      221,325     229683       235 054      242,103      249,367      256,645      264,650      272,492
7          20,514        20,715       21,387       24,084       24,119      27,881       27,351       28,169       29,016       29,886       30,781
Preparatory
Education               8           14,128        18,847       18,644       19,247      21,676       21,707       25,092       24,615       25,351       26,114       26,897
9          10,693        13,062       16,962       16.779       17,322      19.508        19,536      22,583       22,153       22,816       23,502
Preparatory Total         45,335        52,624       56,993       60,110       63,117       69,096      71,979        75,367      76,520       78,816       81,180
Secondary              10           12,147         8,990       10,449      13,569       13,423       13,857       15,601       15,628       18,066       17,721       18,252
(General and
Vocational)            11            6,749        10,204        8,091        9,394      12,212       12,080       12,471       14,045       14,065       16,259       15,956
Education
12           5,919         6,148        9,184        7,281        8,463      10,990        10,872       11,22       12.          12,          14,632
Secondary Total         24,815        25,342       27,724       30.244                                3 897   3    40 897       44,771       46 638       48,840
GRAND TOTAL        260,271       282,041      298,480     311.679      326.898      341,077      353.026      365,631      377,936      390.104      402,512
Source: Ministry of Edtucation
January 12, 1972



JORDAN - EAST BANK
Ministry of Education Schools
Compulsory and Secondary Cycles Teacher Requirement
( 1970/71 - 1980/81 )
1970/71     1971/72      1972/73     1973/74    1974/75        1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81
Compulsory         Estimated
Cycle              Teachers                 6,844        7,454       7,884        8,190        8,525       8,881        9,176        9,495       9,736        10,036       10,335
in Service
Required:
a) for Expansion           -            610         430          306          335         356          295          319         241           300          299
b) for Replacement         -            342         373          394         410          426          444         459          475           487          502
(5%)
Total Requirement          -            952         803          700          745         782          739          778         716           787          801
Secondary          Estimated
Cycle              Teachers                 1,135        1,135       1,248        1,361        1,534       1,662        1,753        1,840       2,014         2,099        2,198
(General and       in Service
Vocational)
Required:
a) for Expansion           -            -           113          113          173         128           91           87         174            85           99
b) for Replacement         -             57          57           63           68          77           83           88          92           101          105
(5%)                       _
Total Requirement          -             57         170          176          241         205          174          175         266           186          204
Source: Ministry of Education
January 12, 1972
*                           e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



JORDAN - EAST BANK
All Authorities
Primary Education Enrollment Proiections
1970/71 - 1980/81
Grade/Year                1970/71     1971/72      1972173     1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81
1                    57,415       59,137      60,911       62,738      64,620       66,558      68,554      70,610       72,728       74,909      77,156
2                    56,774       55,693      57,360       59,083      60,855       62,680      64,561      66,497       68,491       70,546       72,661
3                    47,395       54,786      53,743       55,352      57,015       58,725      60,486      62,301       64,169       66,093       68,094
4                    45,432       45,499      52,594       51,593      53,137       54,734      56,376      58,066        59,808      61,602       63.443
5                    37,720       42,478      42,541       49,175      48,239       49,683      51,176      52,711       54,291       55,920       57,597
6                    32,883       33,948      38,230       38,286      44,257       43,415      44,714      46,058       47,439       48,861       50,328
total                  277,619     291,541     305,379      316,227     328,123      335,795     345,867    356,243        366,926     377,931      389,279
Preparatorv Education Enrollment Projections
1970/71 - 1980/81)
Grade/Year                1970/71     1971/72      1972/73     1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79      1979/80     1980/81
7                   29,917       29,594      30,553       34,407      34,457       39,831      39,073       40,242      41,452       42,695       43,974
8                   20,735       26,925      26,634       27,497      30,966       31,011      35,847       35,165       36,217      37,306       38,425
9                    16,055      18,661      24,232       23,970      24,747       27,869      27,909       32,262       31,648      32,595       33,575
Total                  66,707      75,180       81,419      85,874       90,170      98,711      102,829     107,669      109,317      112,596     115,974
Source:  Ministry of Education
January 12, 1972                                                                                                                                                                 P 
onQ z



JORDAN - EAST BANK
All Authorities
Secondary (General and Vocational)
( 1970/71 - 1980/81 )
Grade/Year                 1970/71      1971/72      1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79       1979/80      1980/81
10                       14,193        11,238       13,062       16,962       16,779       17,322       19,508       19,536       22,583       22,152       22,816
11                         8,549       12,756       10,114      11,755        15,265       15,101       15,589       17,557       17,582       20,324       19,936
12                         8,163        7,686       11,480       9,102        10,579       13,738       13,590       14,030       15,801       15,823       18,291
Total                       30,905       31,680       34,656       37,819       42,623       46,161       48,687       51,123       55,966       58,299        61,043
Proportion of General Secondary Enrollment to Vocational Enrollment
Type/Year                 1970/71      1971/72      1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1.977/78     1978/79      1979/80      1980/81
General Secondary              27,952       27,200       28,639       30,265       33,532       35,533       36,522        37,421       40,727       41,523       42,730
Vocational Secondary            2,953        4,480        6,017        7,554        9,091       10,628       12,165        13,702       15,239       16,776       18,313
Total                       30,905       31,680       34,656       37,819       42,623       46,161       48,687       51,123       55,966       58,299        61,043
Source:  Ministry of Education
January 12, 1972                                                                                                                                                             N'



ANNEX 8
Page 1
JORDAN
SOURCES OF EDUCATION FINANCE
( 1965 - 1975 )
East and West Banks      East Bank
Authorities                  1965/66              1970  a/
1000 JD             1000 JD      %
Ministry of Education         ., 230     54         , 770     56
Other Ministries               660        8          870      10
Total Central Government     4,890       62        5,6W0    66
Local Authorities              370        5          430       5
Total Public                 5,260       67        6,070      71
UNRWA                        1,690       22        1,620      19
Private Sources                 870      11          880      10
Grand Total                  7,820      100        8,570    100
a/ Estima-ted; excluding payments to the West Bank (about
JD 2.o5 million).
January 12, 1972



JORDAN - EAST BANK
Resources and Expenditures for Education - 1970 a/
(in thousands of J.D.)
Spent by      Ministry of    Ministry of        Other        UNHWA      Universi        Other         Total
Financed by                Education        Finance      Ministries                               Private      Resources
Ministry of Education       4>770                                                                                4,770 b/
Ministry of Finance                         20                                         540                         560
Other Ministries                                             310                                                   310 b/
Local Authorities             430                                                                                  430
UNRWA                         180 c/                                     1, 440                                  1,620
Private Sources                                                              .          330        550             880
Total Expenditures          5,38o            20              310         1,,440         870        550           8,570
a/ Estimated.
b/ Excluding payments to the West Bank (about JD 2,030,000 by Ministry of Education and JD 20,000 by other
Ministries).
c/  Estimated by Ministry of Education; not yet approved by UNRWA.
crd
January 12, 1972
0* 



ANNEX 9
JORDAN - EAST BANK
Expenditures on Education
by Type of Education and Category, 1970
x 1000 JD
Person-            Other      Total
Type              nel    Rents  Recurrent. Recurrent   Capital  Total           g
Primary                3,200    160       290       3,650       4,O    5x,070         48
Preparatory            1,320     50 _     160       1,530       160     1 690    _
Total Compulsory           L,520    210       40         5,170               5,760         68
(,%)             ~~~~~~(78)    (4)  (8)       (90i)      (lo)     (1.00)
Secondary general        670    2o        110          800       80        88o         10
Secondary vocational,  140        0        80          220       50        27Q          3
Total Secondary         .B1T0       20       190       1,020       130      1,150         13
(M)                     (70)   (2)       (17)         (89)     (11)      (ioo)
University              300       0      210          51')      360a/     870         10
Other higher            190      10        70         270-    30          300          3
Total Higher                 490      10 77                750      390      1,170         1.3
(.%)             ~~~~~~(42)   (1)  (21t)       (67!      (33)    (000)
Other exoenditures           280      20      190          h90        0        1190         6
TOTAL                      6,100    260    1,110         7,470    1,10(      8,.70        ioo
(M                      (71)    (3)      (13)         (87)     (13)       I)_
a/ Normally the level of capital expenditure for the University is about JD16O,OOO. The
high level of capital expenditure in 1970 is due to the large investment program of
the University of Jordan.
January 12, 1972






JORDAN                                  ANNEX 10
Page 1
Projection of Education Expenditures
East and
West Banks  East Bank            East Bank
19____ ____ _   1970     1975          1950
Total education expenditures (1000 JD)    7,800         8,600       13,500         18,000
- as proportion of GNP                       4.4%         6.5%    7.1 - 8.3%    6.5 - 9.0%
Central Government's education
expenditures ('000 JD)                    4,900        5,700        8,800         12,000
- as proportion of Central Government's
domestic revenue                          18.3%        17.1%     19 -  22%      17 -  2h%
Education Expenditures by Type of Education (East Bank), 1970 and 1980
1970                       1980
Type                       '000 JD       %           '000 JD         %
Primary                                4,070        48            7,100        39
Preparatory                            1,690        20            3,600        20
Total Compulsory                            5,760        68           10,700        59
Secondary general                       8Ho         10            1,400         8
Secondary vocational                     270         3            2,650        15
Total Secondary                             1,150        13            4,050        23
University                               870        10            1,600         9
Other higher                             300         3              850         5
Total Higher                                1,170        13            2,450        14
Other expenditures                            49         6              800         4
TOTAL                                       8,570      100            18,000        100
January 12, 1972



ANNEX 10
Page 2
JORDAN
Projection of Education Expenditures: Basic Assumptions
1.  Student Projection (East Bank)                      1970/71               1980/81
Kindergarten                                         10,67h                20,000
Primary                                             277,619               389,000
Preparatory                                          66,707               116,000
Secondary, total                                    (30,905)              (61,000)
-general                                            27,952                42,700
-commercial                                          1,636                 7,600
-industrial                                          1,011                 9,200
-agricultural                                          278                   900
-nursing, home-econ.                                    28                   600
Teacher training                                      1,282                 3,000
University                                            2,920                 5,000
Other higher                                            355                 1,000
Special education                                       336                   700
2. The increase of recurrent costs per student will be kept within narrow limits, i.e.:
- pupil-teacher ratios will remain constant;
- the improvement of quality will only influence teacher salaries at the primary
and preparatory levels where unqualified teachers will be replaced by qualified
ones;
- average teacher sa]aries will go up with no more than 1% per year in accordance
with past trends and with present government policy to keep salary increases at
the lowest possible level.
3. Capital expenditures will remain modest:
- in general types of education, one-third of new capacity will be rented;
- capital cost per student will remain constant.
4. The financial contributions of local authorities, U_NEWA and private sources will
remain at the 1970 level. (See Annex 8)
5.  Two alternatives for GNP are considered, a high one with 8% growth and a low one
with 4% per annum. Central government's domestic revenue will be maintained at
25% of GNP, and thus grow at the same rates of 8% and 4% p.a. respectively.
January 12, 1972



ANNEX 11
FPge 1
JORDAN
Curriculum of Comprehensive Secondary Schools
First Year    Second Year    Third Year
I   Recuiired Courses
Islamic Education                     3                2             2
Arabic                                5                5             5
English                               5                5             5
Social Science                        3                2             2
Mathematics                           3                2             2
General Vocational Education
(Home Economics - for girls)         2                2             2
General Science                       5                -             -
Physical Education                    2                2             2
Physics                                                2             2
Chemistry                             -                2             2
Total             28               24            24
II   Science Stream
Biology                               2                3       1     3
Physics                               2                4             4
Chemistry                             2                3             3
Mathematics                           2                2             2
III Vocational Stream
Industrial Arts (boys)                8               12            12
Home Economics (girls)                8               12            12
Commerce                              8               12            12
Crafts                                8               12            12
IV   Literary Stream
Islamic Education                     2                2             2
Arabic                                2                3             3
English                               2                3             3
Social Science                        2                2             2
General Science                       -                2             2
TOTAL Periods per week                     36               36            36
January 12, 1972



JORDAN                               ANNEX 11
Curriculum for Girls - Post Secondary Courses             Page 2
Institutional
Commercial Studies          Management
1st Year ,2nd Year        1st Year  2nd Year
General Education
Islamic Education                            2   i    1                 2  1      1
Arabic                                       4        4                 3         3
English                                      6        6                 6         6
Social Science                               2        2                 2         2
Physical Education                           1        1                 1 1       1
Total         15       114               14        13
II   Commercial Studies
Bookkeeping & Accounting                     2        2
Business Arithmetic                          1        1
Shorthand                                    5        5
Typing (Arabic and Ehglish)                  4        4
Business Law                                 1        1
Secretarial Work                             3        3
Business Correspondence                      2        2
General Office Practice Machines             2        2
Total        20         20
III Institutional Management -
in Addition to General Education
Cookery, Foods and Nutrition                                            3          1
Home Management & Furnishing                                            5          2
Flower Arrangement                                                                 1
Folk Arts                                                               3
Institutional Management                                                2         12
Applied Science                                                         1
Applied Arithmetic                                                      2
Total                                     16       16
TOTAL Periods per TWreek                        35         34                3        29
* In addition, one month of practice work is required
January 12, 1972



ANNEX 11
page 3
JORDAN
CURRICULA IN
POLYTECHNIC AND TRADE TRAINING CENTSR
The Polytechnic and Trade Training Center offers a total of 15 full-time
day courses of one and two years' duration. The following selection indicates the
general nature of these courses:
A. Polytechnic: Mechanical Engineering - Po t Secondary Course
1st Year               2nd Year
Laboratory             Laboratory
N                            and                    and
Subject   \               Class    Workshop      Class    Workshop
Pure and applied mathematics                  3          3
Engineering physics and chemistry             2          4
Mechanics of machines                                                2          3
Engineering drawing                           4                      4
Workshop processes and practice               1          5           1          5
Strength of materials                         2          2
Engineering materials and metallurgy                                 2          2
Fluid mechanics                               2          2
*      Heat, power, air conditioning and
refrig.                                     2          4           2          4
Plant engineering                                                    2          2
Work study and workshop organization                                 2           2
Meteorology                                                          1          2
Social studies                                2                      2
English and report writing                    2                      2
Total periods per week            20          20         20          20
January 12, 1972



ANNEX 11
Page 4
B. Polytechnic - Technical Teacher Training - Post Secondary Course
1st Year               2nd Year
Laboratory             Laboratory
and                    and
Subject                   Class    Workshop      Class    Workshop
General and pedagogy                        5           2           5          4
Science                                      4          4           4          4
Pure and applied mathematics                 3                      3
Engineering drawing                          4                      2
Workshop practice                                       6                      6
Teaching practice                                       6                      6
Arabic                                       2                      2
Social studies                               2                      2
English and report writing                   2                      2
Total periods per week           22          18         20          20
C. Trade Training Center:  General Woodworkers - Post Preparatory Course
lst Year               2nd Year
Laboratory             Laboratory
and                    and
Subject                   Class    Workshop      Class     Workshop
Science and calculations                    4                       4
Technical drawing                            3                      3
Shop organization                            1                      1
Workshop                                               30                     30
Social studies                               2                      2
Total periods per week           10          30         10          30
Januarv 12, 1972



ANNEX 12
JORDAN
Courses, enrollment and output of the project schools
Courses                                     Enrollment                 Outp,lt
First   Second   Third
Year     year    year        Total
1.   Comprehensive schools (Amman)
Science                                          240       200     130         620        180
Arts                                              240      230      210        680        210
Commercial                                       105        92      84         280         82
Industrial                                        75        73      72         220         70
Home Economics                                    50        45       44        140         42
Institutional Management *                        15        15       -          30         13
Advanced Commercial Studies *                      15       15        -          30        13
TOTAL                                             740      670     590       2,000        610
2.1  Polytechnic * (Amman)
Civil Engineering and Surveying                30        30                  60         27
Architecture and Quantity Survey                30       30                  60         27
Mechanical Engineering                         60        60                 120         55
Electrical Engineering                         60        60                 120         54
Laboratory Technicians                         30        30                  60         27
Technical Teachers                              20       20                  40         20
TOTAL                                             230      230                 460        210
2.2 Trade Training Center (Amman)
Machine Operators                                25        -                  25         23
Moulding and Foundry Workers                     15       15                  30         13
Pattern Makers and Woodworkers                  15        15                  30         13
Sheet Metal and Pipe Workers                     25        -                  25         23
General Mechanics                               20        20                  40         18
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning              25        25                  50         23
Instrument and Maintenance and Repair           15        15                  30         13
Automotive Workers                               20       20                  40         18
Shutterers and Building Workers                 25         -                  25         23
TOTAL                                             205       90                  295       167
3.1 Primary and Preparatory
Teacher Training Institute * (Salt)
Science and Mathematics                        265       265                 530        250
Languages                                                 33                             30
Social Studies                                            13                             10
Home Economics                                   I        13                   l         10
Fine Arts                                        j        13                             10
Physical Education                                        13                             10
TOTAL                                             350      350                 700        320
3.2  Agricultural Teacher Training * (Shaubak)          30       30                   60        30
* Post-Secondary Courses
January 12, 1972






:4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4'
4<                           4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :4.,       -
N                                                                                                                                                                  '4)               N- 4                      N- N  I    4  '4 ':4    N                                             )**II
44                    4           I    N-    -         4    4     I            4        N-    N-    N-    N-                   N-                                                                                                                                                                                      N-    N-
4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4'        N-
N           N      -       I    I      4    N-    N-        N      N     N      N                   N-          C                  N-                       N-    N-      I           .4      I   '4)   '4    N-                         4            4           N-    -t    -             4'   N
'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ':4
:4              :4
4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -     -         N
4.                  .3N.4t4N43                             4444                        N   0   N   N-                         N-           C            N-   4  N-   4                 N-  -t  .4                4   4  0  :4  N-                           I   4  .4  -   -    2   I  =                            N-   I
'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N     'o        N-
N         44   N
:4             -                                                        -----                                         -
4)       4..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -               '.4
'4              :4
4.'   N   NN-.4NNN-N  I I - N '4 N                                                                                                              jIll)'   N  .4 I*III4                                                                                                   N- N                      *ISI   .4 I N-
:4
44                                               .4)                                                                                                                          44                                                       A
4)                                                                                                                                                                            4)                                                                                       4)
4)                                                                                                                                                                            :4                                                       :4                              4)
13                                                 :4                                                                                                                   :4   :4                                                        4)                              4)
z                                                                                                               :4   :4  '4.                                                         N                                            4.,
44             '.4   '4..   :4                                           4)   ...                                                                                                          N                                                                 i
43    44    4)                                                       '4                               u           :4
'4                                    :4       -4      4     :4    -                                            '4   :4    4).
4                     N-     "                                           4)   4)    0       N-                                                 4)                             N      N-   '4
:4                                              N-    4'   :4   '4                                            .4   .,    44    A                                                    0                              N      44  .4)                                           44                     4.
o                                     '.4-           '4                                                       .4     N            :4.                                                '4                                    4)    ))                              44)          0
.4                                    0        A      N                                                        4    4.    N       4                                                                                  4)    N     44,   44                  0     0           .4)
:4                 .        .4..-.                                                                                                                                :4   :4   4)                   43   :4   :4   :4                     V.4
'4           N           4)                                                                                                                                                                                         A     4)4          41           44A                :4
4)                 4                  44   44                                4.                                                                      13   44    :4       0           .4)                                    4     N      3                 4)   4)           .4)   ':4          .4)    4)           4)    4)
44                 4    N                                4)        44                                                                                             44                                                                                                                                                  .4
-                  ':4   :4                              :3        44                                                                                                                                                                                                         4)                ':4
:4                                    N      4.                                       4)                                                                                                                '4    N-    C             43     0          N      4)    4,    4)    t                   4<    H            N     4-'    F
43                       43          4.                 4..       4)
.4'                                                                                                             4)   4)   :4   :4              4)   .4   .3    4.              0    .3                               44                       N    ..'                              14                             N
.3    4    .3       4    0      44          :4   :4    -       4    N       :4          N      44          .3      4    .3                       N-
4           A           .4                                                                                                                                 44    4'    N-   4)    14   4-4    0         4)          N                  0      4    444          N      44   14    4)            :4   :4   44          '             C
4)   .3    '4   :4   4)   .4)                                       44                  .4   :4                  N      :4   4.   :4    4)   A         "    '4)    4)           4)  'N                               N
4)   .4)    4     :4                                                                                                                                 4)          4)'   43    4'    N       43    4            4)           4)444)4)4)4.                          4444        ':4          14    N      4)
N                                            4'   '4     C            N     .3    44    N      N     H     43    N      N            40     4               H             -
:4.                                                      4)     4)    4)    4)                       44
N      44    4)     4).      444           '4
N-   '.4    N                        4
0
I                                                                                                                                                                                          S



JORDAN
Proposed Program of Study for the Training of Teachers in AgricuLltural Education, at Shaubak
First Year                                          Second Year                               Total
Area                                                                 _                                                                 f
1st Semester              2nd Semester                  1st Semester            2nd Semester                 Hours
General Education        Islamic Culture        1    Islamic Culture        1    Arab World            2
Arabic                 2    Arabic                 2                                                                  14
English                3    English                3
Professional             Introduction to              Introduction to            Curriculum                 Student Teaching
Education                Education            2       Education           2       Development        I      & Demonstrations  8
Educational &               Educational &               Extension Methods          Extension Methods
Developmental               Developmental              and Practices       2       and Practices       2
Psychology         2         Psychology       2
Production & Use          Production & Use
Teaching Methods    2        of Teaching                of Teaching                      35
Aids            2         Aids              2
Teaching Methods   2    Seminar on Agri-
cultural Educa-
Methods of Teach-              tion              2
ing Agriculture  2
Methods of Teach-
ing Agriculture   2
Technical                Chemistry              3    Soil Conservation            Soil Conservation         Resources & Policy
Agricultural                                          & Irrigation        2       & Irrigation       2       for Agriculture
Biology                3                                                               Development       2
Chemistry             I    Plant Science         2
Physics                3                                                                                             40
Plant Science         1    Animal Science       2
Animiial Science      1    Farm Management       2    Farm Management       2
Biology               2
Practical Field              Practical Field            Practical Field
Work                 4      Work                 4      Work               4
TOTAL  (periods                             23                          23                        23                          20            89
per week)                                                                             .
January 12, 1972
Z-



ANNEX 15
Page I
Proposed Time Schedale for Technical Assistance
Experts                          Fellowships             Total Cost
Project item                  Man            YearMan                            Year
______ _ ___  No. Years      Re uired          No. months        Required            US$
1    2    3    4    5               1    2    3    4
1. Comprehensive Schools
Industria] Arts Teachers       2      4     -   -   2   2          5      60     -   -  36  24
Home Economics Teachers        -      _     _           _           3     36     -   -  24  12
2. Polytechnic -                  8     23      -   1   8   8   6    17    153      -   -  90  63        775,000
*          3. Trade Training Center-         7     14      -   1   7   6   -    10      60     -   - 30  30         390,000
4. Teacher Training Institute
Teacher Trainers               -      -          -    -            2      24     -   -  12  12
143,000
5. Educational Planners           2      4      1       1       1     1      12     -  12   -  -
6. Project Unit
Procurement specialist         1      2     1   1           -    -        -    -    -   -              63,000
TOTAL                         20     h7      2   h  18  17   6    38    345      -  12 192 141      1,54g,000
1/  The British Government has indicated willingness to provide the technical assistance
required for this project item. In addition the Dutch Government has indicated
willingness to provide technical assistance and equipment for the science equipment
production unit included in the Polytechnic.
2/ The Government has requested UNDP/ILO to provide the staff and the fellowship required
for this project item.
January 12, 1972



ANNEX 15
Page 2
JORDAN
Polytechnic and Trade Training Center
Estimated Teaching Staff Requirements
Student
Deputy    Head of                                        enroll-
Director  Director  Department  Lecturers  Instructors  Totals  ment
Polytechnic           )             1           6            29           4         40      460
Trade Training        )  1          1                                   25          26      295
Science Equipment    )                          1                        1           2       -
Totals              1          2          7            29          30          68 +1  755
Student - Staff ratio  =  755  =  11.4
66
Estimated salaries      =  52,000 JD/annum
Note
UNDP expert personnel serving under technical assistance arrangements are
not included in the above table and calculations.
January 12, 1972



ANNEX 15
JORDAN                             Page 3
Polytechnic and Trade Training Center
Technical Assistance Requirements
(a) Experts
Period    Man-       Estimated
Subject                                             No.   (Months)   months    Cost
Polytechnic
Civil engineering & surveying                           1         36        36
Architecture & Quantity surveying                       1         36        36
Mechanical engineering                                  1         36        36
Electrical engineering (light)                          1         36        36
Electrical engineering (heavy)                          1         36        36
Laboratorv technician training                          1         24        24
-Technical teacher training                              1         36       36
Scientific equipment design                             1         36        36
Total           8                 276        $ 6907000
Trade Training Center
Fitting and Sheet Metal Work                            1         24        24
Building trades                                         1         24        24
Eiectrical installation                                 1         24        24
Air conditioning & refrigeration                        1         24        24
Foundry work                                            1         24        24
Auto Mechanics                                          1         24        24
Machine Shop repair                                     1         24        24
Total           7                 168        $ 360,000
TOTAL                                                  15                 448       $1,050,000
(b) Fellowships
Polytechnic                                            17          9       153        $  85,000
Trade Training Center                                  10          6        60           30,000
TOTAL                                                  27                 213        $ 115,000
NB: Average periods of service are given : the periods should be regarded as
flexible within the respective totals.
January 12, 1972






i X D   -    <           _ _  . e   +   0 o                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 16
                  .4                                         0     4<<r _      
r   D    _  _    _      F.    D    D  O                            r  '4
4. 4     C,     0              0 4    -                                         v4'~
O   0    4        4 _  _.      4           4 _      4J  r4 o     c44r4
^_~ ~  ~     ~ ~~~0 4@  -, O     r                      4 D4 i 0   _     O _          _ aco0c 
/  _  ~~.0      4      4, __     O   D  4   '4 D    D0 D            .0D
.40 G        4 D                     .4DD _ C   0                 
fg               ~~0 4   4                               r .44    
_4 0    0 4    O   O4   4           N      04             A     
4               _   C4       .    _         N           4                       .4  0.4>D  
<~~~~~~~                      ~~~~~~ . 0                     4p  _  _4 N            0N 
X      C   O    N     .4    r      4 O     O      .4 O                           4    
X3~ ~ ~~.          .4 o                   4 o     4O O  ID -  
*~~~ ~                     |   2 2  _          Z  | |   D 0   1             4   4
4| C4 4X   >   D ~ 1             u     4 I 4       IIWo
3  4   .4    e 4    .4 |         4    4;   4       4         
_ ~ ~ ~ ~  . |         A     A |  |  0                      4'   _       
;  L   G]ol              |  S    c:   ll           lt                 I1 






JORDAN
Unit Capital. Costs in New Project Institutions-/
(in US Dollars)
Category               Gross Area         AAverage     Buildin'J Cost/   Construction  Furniture  Equipment            Total
per     2    Jtilization      Unit Floor
Student Place m2    Factor 2/            Area
I.. J;cademic and Communal
Facilities
Comprehensive
Secondary Schools              18.9         1      7                 95               515           70           97        682  (1,108!)
Polytechnic and
Trade Tfraining Center         1-L .6             [5%              106              1,l)12         2tt6      1,210       3,298  (3,090)
Teacher 'fraeinine
Institute                       7.0              M81                106               911         118           290      1,319  (1,L198)
2. Boarding
Polytechnio and
Trade Thainin-T Center          f.3                _               112              1,0)42        198           -        1,28?  (1,8)48)
Teacher Training
Institute                       8.3                _                117             1,1.27         207          _        1,336  (i,PA24)
3. Staff Housing                 120~                                  117            .6,1f2iJ6        _           _       16,1116 (16,836)
1/  Professiona.l. fees and contingencies are not i.ncluded.
2/  Excludes specialized rooms (laboratories, workshops, efc.) where uti.lization factors
w.^rould be about 1.0 to 15% I-ower.
( ) Represent the mean value (in 197(` prices) of l'high" and tnedian" firures
of simi.lar le-ee  and tvoe of institu6ions in Bank/'IDA financed projects.
January 12, 7.972



JORDAN
Contingencies allowances (in US$ millions)
Professional            Technical
Site Development          Buildings              Furniture              Equipment               Services               Assistance             Subtotal              Total
Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign        Local    Foreign
1. Contingencies Percentages
a.  Unforeseen factors             10%        10%         10%        10%         Nil        Nil         Nil         5%         10%        10%         Nil        Nil
b.  Price increase                 18%        187         18%       t8%          15%        15%         15%        15%         18%        18%         10%         10%
Total  a + b                  28%        28%          28%       28%          15%        15%         15%        20%         28%        28%         10%        10%                                  24.2%
2. Total Project Cost
Betore Contingencies              0.307      0.140       1.973      1.716       0.026      0.523       0.069      1.381       0.121      0.299       0.073      0.307        2.569      4.366         6.935
3. ContingencIes Amounts
a.  Unforeseen factors            0.031      0.014       0.197      0.172       0.000      0.000      0.000       0.069       0.012      0.030       0.000      0.000        0.240      0.285         0.525
b.  Price increase                0.055      0.025       0.355      0.308       0.004      0.078      0.010       0.207       0.022      0.054       0.007      0.031        0.453      0.703         1.156
Subtotal of Contingencies         0.086      0.039       0.552      0.480       0.004      0.078      0.010       0.276       0.034      0.084       0.007      0.031        0.693      0.988         1.681
4.  _T.
4.  TOTAL Pro ject Cost.
Including Contingencies           0.393      0.179       2o.525     2.196       0.030      0.601      0.079       1.657       0.155      0.383       0.080      0.338        3.262      5.354         8.616
January 12, 1972



*                                                                                     e
JORDAN
Project implementation schedule
_ First Yar      .   Second Year               Third Year               Fourth Year               Fifth Year
_________________     _ __________________              1     2     3     4     5    6     7     8           ..10  1-   _   _12          14 _16                             ' I
1. Construction. Furniture, Equioment
i.  Civil Works                      vvv
Design and contracts                                  **  000  0
Site develooment
Construction                                                      cc  ccc  ccc  ccc    ccc   ccc  ccc    ..-H   44+    --4 +I++
Professional services                   ...   ...   ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    ...   ...  ...   ...    ...
ii.  Furniture                                         P   PPP ***   000  OM  MMM  MMM        14M  MMM  III   44+   +++   +++
44
iii.  Equioment                             Q ppP    PPP   PPP ***   000  OMM  MMM  MMM    MMM   MMI  III   +t+   +++   +4+   ++
2.  Technical Assistance
i.  Project Unit                         4
Equinment Specialist                 4 TTT    TTT   TTT  TTT  TTT  TTT  TTT  TTT
Education  Specialists                  TTT  TTT  TTT  TTT TTT  TTI TTT  TTT   TTT   TT1  TTT  TTT   TTT   TTT TTT   TTT 
Fellowships                             FFF I               FFFFFFF  FFF FFF  F FF                                       1            I             - _  1 _
Legend
vvv  Selection and aopointment of consultants              ,,,    Site surveys                            M4xM     Manufacturing and reception
*    Design                                                ,,,    Site develooment                        III      Installation
***  Prenaration of bid packages                           ccc    Construction                            -.-.4    Defects and liability neriod
000  Tendering and contract award                          ...    Professional services                    TTT     Technical assistance
PPP    Preoaration of master lists             FFF      Fellowships
Note:   It is  assumed that adequate  managerial and  counterpart personnel
will be made available on time.
J
January 12, 1972



ANNEX 20
JORDAN
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Accumulated           Undisbursed
Quarter *         Disbursements         Disbursenents             Balance
%       Amounts   _           Amounts                Amounts
1             -          -          -                   100.0         5.ho
2            1.0        0.05       1.0       0.05        99.0        5.35
3            1.2        0.07       2.2       0.12        97.8        5.28
4            1.7        0.09       3.9       0.21        96.1         5.19
5            1.9        0.10       5.8       0.31         94.2        5.09
6            4.1        0.22       9.9       1.53        90.1         h.87
7           14.0        0.76      23.9       1.29        76.1         4.11
8            8.3        0.45      32.2       1.74        67.8         3.66
9           10.2        0.55      42.4       2.29        57.6         3.11
10           17.2        0.93      59.6       3.22        4o.4         2.18
11           15.6        0.84      75.2       4.06        24.8         1.34
12            9.3        0.50      84.5       h.56        15.5         o.84
13            3.1        0.17      87.6       4.73        12.h         0.67
14            3.1        0.17      90.7       4.90         9.3         0.50
15            3.1        0.17      93.8       5.07         6.2         0.33
16            3.1        0.17      96.9       5.24         3.1         0.16
17            3.1        0.16     100.00      5.40         0.0         0.00
* Beginning from effective date.
Note: It is assumed that adequate managerial and counterpart personnel
will be made available on time and that the present political
stability will continue.
January 12, 1972



222222    -             222).222)2222  2)2222     222222                2-  22   22222.2222222    222)222222222222222.2                      22      22  22222
2222.2222222222       .222222   22  .22222.22.222222222222222222222222              2222       2222.2222     02222222222222222.22           2222222
-. 2. 22   22.22      222 22 0                   '02                       -    - -        22*2222         - .
22<2222        -                                           . . .          .
2       222222222222222222222     222222    ...2222222.2222.22222222..22..22.           .22222.02222    222222222.2222    222222    2222222222      -
2222  22   2.  -        222222.22222222           222222   .2222222222222222222.222222                 22.2222.2222          2222222222.2222                       22      222222
-.                                                  22          22222222222       222222             2222222222222222      22
222. .2
2222.2222222222222.       22220    222222222222222222222222022222222222222      222222222222    .222222222..22    22222222.-022222222     22  22
22     - 2222  222222.                22  22 22                         -       22       22 -   22      -0222222- 22   22                 - -       22
-          22              22   22   22  22            2)   2222               22      2222.2.222.2222  .22          -
- 222222022222222222 2222.22 0222222222222222222222222222222222202222222222222222222222222 2222-222222222222,2 2 -
*                                    22  2222222222022202222   2222.22    22 22  2222  2222-2222220 222222  22
22      .22222222222222222222     22222222   222222222222222       2222222222222222    222222222222    22222222222222    22 2222222222222222
22     222222222222222222.22  22222                                             222222222222    22222.22222222.2    222222. .2222222222.2  22
0
22          22         22  22            222222222222               2)  222222            2222        22    2<2
-      22222222222222222222       222222    22222222222222222222222222222222222222      22222222222222222222222222       222202)22222202222
22    22222222222222222222       2222222022222222022222222222222222222222222           2222.22220222222022222222         2222222222.2222022        22      222222
22                                                     0                                       22
2)                                         222)0            2)2222  022       - 2)   222222     0222..                00
22222222222222222222      22222<      .222222222222222222222  2222222222222222    22.2222222222    222222222222   22222222222222222222                      I __
22.. .., 22 22 22 22 2.
22     2222222222.122222222                2222222222222222222222  .2222                                                                                    2222222.22222222
22       -2222-22222222             22224   22222222222222222222222222   2222222222222222222202222222222222222222222222222                             22
2222         22222222222222-2222        22220    2222222222222222222222<2222.2222222222      222222222222    22222222222222    22.2222222222.2222.2           .  2222<
.222222                                      222222                                                                                          2222222222                2222.2    222222.222)22
2222222222222222                2222222222222222222222222222222222222222    222222222222    22222222222222222222222                     22 22             22<22222222
22         22  22  22                 2222  22     2)   22       <22222222           222)22222222    22          22
222222.22222222       2222.22    .2222222222222222.222222.22222222    222222222222          2122222222222222222222222222222222
2022                                                        2-  2222222222222222   22  222-22              22        22                  2)2)22    22
22222Q    222222222222222222002222222222222222220222222022           222222222222-    22222222222222222222
        22 222222220222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222            2222222222222222.222
2             2222      22222222222222222222      222202222222222 22222222222222<222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222
22           22222       22222222      2222           22            22      22   22       2222  22                     22  22      22   222222  222222
22       22222222222222222222       222222    2222222222222222222222222222222222222222    222222222222    22222222222222    22222222222222
22       2222222222022222222        222222    022220222222222202222222222222202222    222222222222    2222222222222222222222222222
22                                 0           0              22220                               0
2222    22         22      22   2222    22            2)   22           2222222222)022222)..                        2202.22       2222
2222   22         022       0*      22        220222222...  022  22   2222002222222222022022                0   22  2222
2222    22.       02202.222002222. 22022222222...0 222222.-  220220..2222   22222202202222                22220222222
2222220   02222022          222222     02200222222022222.2202222220222222   220  22222222  <2-.22 22220032222222.2222
2)222222222.22222222.    2202222  22222222222222022.220220220222222222   22222222 2222...2222222  22222202.022222 J222                       22
0.2222222)2)2)2)2)222)2222 22422222222222222222222  22222222222222  22222)2)22222-22      2)22222222222-
25  -J2t4
2.0222222222222022.22222   2-02222          222222.22220   0222          222-222222222222        22220
22220   2222022   2222222222220  22      02.     222222202)   22   2202-2222         22222       22222.2222222222222  22
222222222222    22022222222220.222222    2222     0022222202222          00222222222.222)
2222222222220 22222 22 2222  22 22 22 22 222222022222222   202222222222 0    .22  22 22   2222 22 22   .2222 22 22 0 22
222.2222  222222    2200222202222    .22        222222222022         2)002         222222      22222   -2222222202222
22.  22  22222222222222)022222220                2222222222  222222    222222222.22220222222222202202.22
222-2222  220222222  222222220222222     2222    02202222   222220222222022                      2222222222-222-022
22  222-222222  2222222222  22     22      2222  222)  2222  022.22   22  220  22  2.22            -22022220222-0022
2222222222222222222222   222222022       222222222.2222222222            222  22-   22222222     022222-   0222   2222
222222.2222)2222   0222222       22   22  0  02202222222)2.22222.   22  22  02222               22.22..2-2   222222
2222222222222222222222202222222222  .22..   2)22222202222   22222222  22  2202222.0-2222    22  2202202222
2222  22222222.22-    2222  22222222222   222222   222222222222222.222222222222222222.   22  -.22220022-222222
02222   2222002222222   2222022222   2  022  222   22-22               2222.22222222222222.   022222212222222222222
02202202222220222222222222022.22222222.-  22222222222222202.   22.22  2222222202222222   22  2222   2
22220222222-22022222222) 22022 222222 22 222222 2222222 22.22222202222022222 0 22 2222222222 2.22
2222  22  222-222222222.222222  22   222222  022222222  222.2222   2)222202222   2-0222222-022222222222   22
2-  222222222222222222222)222)0222222   22       222222222  20220   222222220   222222220  222  22  220
2222022.22   222222222222022   2.22  .22   2222      222222    222222    2222  222-    2202222222222222222222222.
222222222222222222222)222222222222       22222   220222222  22   22  2222222222    22.2222  22222222222222002222.2
022222222222-2222  22222222  2222  2.      22    2)2222      22222222 222222           20       220222   222) 2222222   2
22222202222       2222022  22  2220       2222   22  22    22222      2222200        222222     22222222222  .222220
2222222222222202222.222222222202222    2222    02   22   222-22       22022222222,0...            2222222222202222222.2
222222220222222222222220222222            2222    2222222     22-0      222222        0222222     22222222022.2222022.
22222)022222202222222202222222-2222 22222222222222220222222220 .2200222222222202222
222222222-2222222222222222222-2202222     222)    22222222    2202222222222222222222222222-2222222.222222






JORDAN
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
AGE 51   41   31   61   71   81   9i  10,  III  121  131  14,                 15,  161  171            18,  19,  20,   21,
SEC. COMMERCIAL           TEACHERS' TRAINING INSTITUTES
SEC. INDUSTRIAL         HIGHER COMMERCIAL INSTITUTE
TRADE TRAINING
r1-1J                    JUNIOR COLLEGE
SEC. AGRICULTURAL       VOCATIONAL TRAINING POLYTECHNIC
COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS        SOCIAL WORK INSTITUTE
_F0J   r1 1Jr 2}-
SEC. GEN ERAL(ACADEMIO       CHi LD CARE & M IDWIFERY JNST IT UTE
COMPULSORY CYCLEJ-
LITERARY HOME M/ANAGEMENT INSTITUTE
KINDERGARTEN   PRIMARY                          PREPARATORY
1    29{HS   03{  e ]  E )_-,.  .
SCIENTIFIC         HIGHER AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE
} 12
NURSING COLLEGES
Eg  SECONDARY EDUCATION(CERTIFICATE                                              FACULTY OF COMMERCE 
*   UNIVERSITY BACHELOR DEGREE                                                                OF {C-      -      Z
SIN THE PROCESS OF CREATION                                                      FACULTY OF        COLLE
IBRD 6081






JORDAN: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
YEARS    PERCENT  ENROLLMENTS IN ALL SCHOOLS, 1970/71
OF STUDY            ENROLLED*
UNIVERSITY              3.7
17                                                                    80   11
16                                                                   483    150
15                                                                   508    197
14                                                               1,606  .  797
13                                                                1,751      909
SECONDARY               35              BOYS                                                                        GIRLS
12                                                                    3  4.  3,801
11                                                            5  10,231  .f&5  4,207
10                              I-16,261                                           6,982
PREPARATORY              67
9                                                                            9- -
8                                                                 2898   13,87
PRIMARY                103
5                                                                 33,691 |  23,9 5
4                                                                3886       30,54
2                                                                4,91       384.i
47,418,' 41,645
50,000      40,000      30,000        20,000      10,000         0          10,000      20,000       30,000         40,000    50,000
*The figures show enrollment as per cent of relevant age groups. Enrollment figures include government, UNRWA                       0
and private schools and training institutions in Jordan. If the 24,000 Jordanians now studying abroad are included,                I
the higher education ratio would be 18%. The presence of a large number of children outside the age limits
accounts for the percentage of primary enrollment being in excess of 100.
I BRD-6082(R)






LAke                                                                                                                         NY
TsAeFllveio$                 0pRMUC ,$S  Y  R I A  N                                              MEOYTARAAEA        e          A
SEA |E'  U IIC  -                    R 4 A
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
A.                                                       Irbid  Roma          er      R EP U BL IC   0 :JO A
(/                       Mofrnq                                                         N                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAJD  ARAEIA
Nobles0             ZARDA       En~~~r                                                              ARAB
NJ blusolr                                                                                                        REPUI    \ J
E0aA    OF 
TA I A VA                                                                                                                         EGYPT
L ebrart                                  Modabo
JORDAN
EDUCATION PROJECT\.
A                                                                                     ~~~~~~\'
*       IComprehensve Secondary Schools (AMMAN)
)                   )              /1                 *        2 Polytechn c rndA Tradn Training Center (MARKA)
3 Teocher Traning inst utre (SALT)
--j                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Agricculturrol Teacher Trcinirng (extension) (SHAJBEAK)
L. LjI                    Shuub k                                              Primary Roads
) !                /          -);                                    Secondary Roads
C-0      Petroo                                                   Rve~~~~~~~~~~~~a.-------  P,rsod
Occupied Territories
InternoeionEl Border                                                   /
This  -p~ is give-  0r geocr-phcal c-ientenso, onry nod no featr- scor,n  h,rso   en
interpreted to  -ly a positron taken9by  rore let                                         t tiOA nn for se ' n  s f lh
Ras en Noqb                           and OevelprEnt Br its ail iates as to contestd aoundor,e3.
/,       
OCTOBER 1971                                                                                                                                                              IR AS03R
Is LOMETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 13R    603



