CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 285 JO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1972


﻿CON1YOR 11ll -
CREDIT NUMBER 285 JO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1972, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million four hundred thousand
dollars ($5,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
s.rvices (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969 as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May I and November 1 commencing May 1, 1982 and ending November 1, 2021,
each installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 1991
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Miristry
of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with round
administrative, financial. educational and technical practices, and shall pruide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)  The specialists and fellowships described under numbers 5 and 6 of
Annex B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the funds required therefor shall
be provided by the Borrower within one year after the date of this Agreement.


﻿5
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project (i)
maintain and operate a Project Unit as described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
with such powers, functions, staff, facilities and resources as set forth in such
Schedule: (ii) employ qualified and experienced persons acceptable to the
Association as the Project Director and Project Architect referred to in such
Schedule: and (iii) appoint, after consultation with the Association and within six
months of the date of this Agreement, and thereafter employ, qualified and
experienced per;ons as the Project Accountant and Project Procurement Specialist
referred to in such Schedule.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the p4inning and supervision
of the construction of the facilities included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ architectural consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and shall submit to the Association
for approval. pronIptly upon their preparation, the plans and specifications relating
to such construction.
Section 3.0," In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptaile to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall (i)
select specialists and award fellowships after consultation with the Association; and
(ii) obtain the approval of the Association before selecting the specialists and
awarding the fellowships provided for under numbers I through 4 of Annex B
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the ac(uisition, traInsportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports, contract documents, work schedules and lists
of furniture, equipment and books required for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire, not later than six months after the date of this Agreement or such
other date as shall be agreed on between the Borrower and the Association, all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carr ing out the Project
or any part thereof
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate the educational institutions
included in the Project in accordance with sound administrative and educational
policies and practices and with due regard to economy; (ii) cause said institutions
to be staffed with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate numbers and
on a full-time basis; and (iii) appoint, not later than one year before the scheduled
completion of the construction of the comprehensive secondary schools, the
Teacher Training Institute and the Polytechnic and Trade Training Center included
in the Project, qualified and experienced directors and assistant directors for said
institutions.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and equipment
of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made; and (ii)


﻿7
establish appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the purpose of
such maintenance.
Section 4.03. In order to enable the Borrower and the Association to assess
the ultimate success of the Project, the Borrower shall within three years after
the date of this Agreement establish a "tracer" system to collect and record all
relevant information, in respect of the Project institutions and such other
institutions as the Borrower and the Association shall determine, concerning
prematurC termination of education, repetition, employment and advanced studies
of graduates.
Section 4.04. In order to strengthen its educational planning mechanism,
the Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this Agreement (i) complete
a comprehensive manpower survey and communicate to the Association the results
of such survey; and (ii) appoint qualified Jordanian counterparts to the technical
assistance staff provided for under number 3 of Annex B to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, establish a National Vocational Council with a Vocational Education
and Training Department as its executive arm. Membership of said Council shall
include representatives of public and private industry, educational institutions and
concerned trade unions.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, establish an Advisory Council for the Polytechnic and Trade Training
Center. Membership of said Council shall include representatives of public and
private industries, of the National Vocational Council and of concerned educational
institutions.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, establish a Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Education.
Membership of said Committee shall include senior officials from the Ministries
of Education and Agriculture of the Borrower, the National Planning Council and
the University of Jordan.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Jordan Board of Education to establish,
within one year after the date of this Agreement, a Teacher Training Committee.
Membership of said Committee shall include, inter alia, the Dean of the Faculty
of Science of the University of Jordan, the Project Manager of the UNDP/UNESCO
assisted science teacher training program, the Head of the Department of Education
of the University of Jordan and the Head of the Teacher Training Department
of the Ministry of Education of the Borrower.


﻿8
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, establish an Educational Planning Committee within its Ministry of
Education. Membership of said Committee shall include the Minister of Education,
the Heads of Primary and Secondary Education, the Educational Planner (or
Planners) referred to under number 3 of Annex B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and a representative from the National Planning Council.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall conduct an annual review of the plans
and program for expansion of enrollment in its schools and shall communicate
the results of such review to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿0                                  9
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment included in the Project and to visit any
part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes impos,d under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The    date  May   11, 1972    is  hereby  specified  for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿10                                             -
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or. on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The President of the National Planning Council of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman, Jordan
Cable address:
JODB
Amman
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s / Abdul Hamid Sharaf
Authorized Representatibe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice Pre.sicent


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                     1,860,000         45% of total ex-
penditures (rep-
resenting the
estimated for-
eign expendi-
tures component)
II.  Consultant Services              300,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
III.  Locally Procured                140,000          75% of total ex-
Furniture, Equip-                                 penditures (rep-
ment and Books                                    resenting the
estimated -for-
eign expendi-
tures component)
IV.   Imported Furniture,            1,800,000          100% of foreign
Equipment and Books                               expenditures
V.   Technical Assistance;            310,000           100% of foreign
Specialists and                                   expenditures
Fellowships
VI.   Unallocated                     990,000
TOTAL          5,400,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or Switzerland;
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, and services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
except that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category II (Consultant Services)
on account of expenditures incurred after February 1, 1972;
(b)   payments of taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods and services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payment for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any of the Categories I
through V shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category
and no longer required therefor shall be reallocated by the Association to
Category VI;
(b)   if the estimate of expenditures under any of the Categories I through
V shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in
paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount
of such increase, and a corresponding amount shall be reallocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category VI,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures;
(c)   If the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in Category I, III or IV is inconsistent with the procedures


﻿14
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit shall be available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
(1)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   two new comprehensive secondary schools;
(b)   one new Polytechnic and Trade Training Center;
(c)   one new Teacher Training Institute;
(d)   extension to the Shaubak Agricultural Secondary School.
(2)  The educational institutions included in the Project are described in Annex
A to this Schedule, subject to modification by further agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Part B:
Employment of specialists and provision of fellowships as set forth in Annex
B to this Schedule subject to modification by further agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1975.


﻿16
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Educational Institutions
Student Places     Boarding Places             Approximate
Type and Name                    Addi-             Addi-               Staff     Construction
of Institution       Location    tional  Total      tional   Total     Houses    Area in 412
1.   Comprehensive   Amman        1,000    1,000       -         -        -          4,910
Secondary
School (Boys)
Comprehensive   Amman        1,000    1,000       -         -        -          4,860
Secondary
School (Girls)
II.  Polytechnic     Marka         755       755      260      260        -         13,210
and Trade
Training
Center
Ill. Teacher         Salt          700       700      420      420        1          8,785
Training
Institute
Agricultural    Shaubak        60      200        60      200        -            800
Teacher Train-
ing Section*
*    Extensions of existing facilities.


﻿17
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance;
Specialists and Fellowships
Specialists       Fellowships
1.   Comprehensive Schools
(a)   Industrial Arts             2 for 4          5 for 5 man-
man-years        years total
(b)   Home Economics                               3 for 3 man-
years total
2.   Teacher Training
Institutes
Teacher Trainers                                   2 for 2 man-
years total
3.    Educational Planner               2 for 4          1 for 1 man-
man-years        year total
4.    Project Unit
Procurement Specialist            I for 2
man-years
5.   Polytechnic
Technical Subjects                8 for 23         17 for 12-3/4
man-years        man-years total
6.   Trade Training Center
Trade Courses                     7 for 14         10 for 5 man-
man-years        years total
The services of the specialists and the fellowships under numbers 1 through
4 above shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; those under numbers
5 and 6 shall be financed by the Borrower from other sources.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works:
1.    Contractors shall be pre-qualified. Before pre-qualification is invited,
the Borrower shall inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified contractors, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
pre-qualification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified of their pre-qualification or of their
exclusion and the Borrower shall make such additions to, or deletions from, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    The documents referred to in paragraph 2 above shall at least include
the following:
(a)   list of all contracts for civil works to be let in carrying out the Project,
indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for award. The contracts shall be grouped in such a way
as to encourage international competitive bidding;
(b)   description of the proposed international advertising coverage to ensure
international competitive bidding;
(c)   drafts of bidding documents including invitations to bid and contracts.
The invitations to bid shall, inter alia, specify that the bidder may
submit bids in respect of each educational institution included in the
Project or of all of them, together with related facilities or any
combination thereof, the bids therefor to be opened simultaneously
and the Borrower to have the option of awarding to one contractor
one contract in respect of all such institutions and facilities, or separate


﻿19
contracts in respect of several such institutions and facilities to
different contractors.
4.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Project Unit
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the said Project
Unit's recommendations for award, and the reasons for the intended award as well
as justification for recommended awards to other than the lowest qualified bidder.
The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection
to the intended award, and shall state the reasons for any such objection it may
have.
5.    Promptly after a contract has been signed, and before submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract, two signed copies thereof shall be sent to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall request the Association's approval for any increase
of more than ten per cent (10%) or $20,000 equivalent, whichever is less, in the
price of any such contract together with reasons for the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Furniture, Equipment and Books:
1.    Within twelve months after the date of signing of this Agreement and
before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its approval,
the following:
(a)   list of all items of furniture, equipment and books required for the
Project showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total
price of each item. Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for
identification regarding the respective educational institution and the
spaces for which they are required. The items to be purchased will
be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent
with sound technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items will be for not less than $40,000 equivalent.
Contracts for less than $5,000 will not be submitted to the Association
for financing. Amendments to such lists which may be made from
time to time shall also be submitted to the Association for approval.
(b)   Draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
description of the method to be used for obtaining bids on an
international basis.


﻿20
2.    Procurement shall be limited to those items of furniture, equipment
and books which are specified in the approved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph
B (1) (a) above and which shall be identified in contract documents by the same
indexes, codes and numbers as in such lists.
3.    The Borrower shall send to the Association, after bids have been
evaluated, a summary and analysis thereof, and obtain the Association's approval
before awarding a contract. In case of a contract to be awarded to other than
the lowest bidder, or of a contract involving a price of 10% or more above the
original estimate as submitted under sub-paragraph B (1) (a) above, the Borrower
shall send to the Association a brief justification by the Project Unit of the proposed
award.
4.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract has been
awarded, the Borrower shall furnish the Association with the following:
(i)         a certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods
contracted for are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list approved by the Association under
sub-paragraph B (1) (a) above;
(ii)        two signed copies of the contract awarded, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal in
respect of such contract.
C.    Margin of Preference for Local Manufacturer and Suppliers:
For the purpose of evaluating bids with respect to all contracts for furniture,
equipment and books bid prices shall be determined in accordance with the
following rules:
(a)   The term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer or
supplier established in the territories of the Borrower for goods
manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Association) in such territories; any other bid shall
be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and


﻿21
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. landed price of such goods net of any taxes on
their importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if
imported into the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (i) above, whichever shall be lower; and
(iii)      inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    A Project Unit has been established within the Ministry of Education
of the Borrower under a full-time Project Director responsible to the Minister of
Education.
2.    The staff of the Project Unit shall at all times include, on a full-time
basis, an architect, a procurement specialist, an accountant and adequate supporting
personnel.
3.    The Project Unit shall have the necessary powers for the execution
of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)   the coordination of the Project with ministries and govermnent services;
(b)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of architectural
consultants and contractors provided for in Sections 3.03 and 3.04
of this Agreement;
(c)   the approval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture, equipment and books
required for Part A of the Project;
(e)   the procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment and books
including the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids
and the making of recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(f)   the regular inspection of all construction work;
(g)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the
Association;
(h)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the specialists
provided under Part B of the Project; and
(i)   the selection, arrangement and supervision of the fellowships under
Part B of the Project.


﻿4.    The functions of the Project Director, the Project Architect, the
Procurement Specialist and the Project Accountant shall be as follows:
(a)   The Project Director
The Project Director shall be responsible for directing all aspects of
the execution of the Project. He shall report directly to the Minister of Education.
He shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(i)         the   administration  of  agreements with    the   architectural
consultants in accordance with their terms of reference;
(ii)        making the necessary arrangements for briefing architectural
consultants and other architects and engineers of the agencies
of the Borrower;
(iii)       reviewing and approving or arranging for the review and approval
by the appropriate authorities of all reports, plans, specifications
and other material related to the Project;
(iv)        making all necessary arrangements for calling bids and awarding
all contracts relating to the Project;
(v)         the coordination and integration of all Project activities with
the relevant ministries, authorities and agencies, and with the
Association;
(vi)        the organization and administration in consultation with the
appropriate authorities of the technical assistance program
included in the Project;
(vii)       the selection and organization of the staff of the Project Unit
and the supervision and direction of their performance of their
respective duties; and
(viii)      the preparation of quarterly project progress reports for the
Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Project Architect
Under the general direction of the Project Director, and in coordination
with the architectural consultants, the Project Architect shall, inter alia:


﻿24
(i)         assemble all information relating to site and site conditions of
the Project institutions;
(ii)        prepare schedules for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of the Project institutions;
(iii)       prepare the architects' briefs, relating educational specifications
to realistic costing and functional design;
(iv)        act as technical and architectural adviser to the architectural
consultants to ensure that the brief is fully understood and that
the Project is carried out in accordance with the brief;
(v)         check the architectural drawings to see that the space provisions
and educational specifications are interpreted correctly so as to
minimize changes during construction and after tenders have
been accepted and approved;
(vi)        ensure that the architectural consultants and contractors are
meeting performance standards as reflected in the specifications;
(vii)       take all steps required to ensure that the furniture is designed
and constructed to specifications;
(viii)      ensure that furniture and building materials are procured in time
and available for use on schedule;
(ix)        process and    expedite   all certificates  of payments from
contractors submitted through the executive architects; and
(x)         visit the works and inspect progress.
(c)   The Project Accountant
The Project Accountant shall be responsible to the Project Director
for setting up of the accounting machinery and the technical and operational aspects
of accounting control relating to Project implementation in terms of the
Development Credit Agreement.
He shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)         ensuring that funds are available in the relevant accounts as
required to meet payments to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit;


﻿25
(ii)        conducting the overall supervision, maintenance and verification
of any special bank account which may be set up for the Project;
(iii)       taking promptly all actions required under the Development
Credit Agreement in order to expedite the disbursement of the
amounts of the Credit, including the preparation of withdrawal
applications;
(iv)        ensuring that a detailed account is maintained in respect of each
contract for the procurement of goods or services for the Project;
(v)         preparing such interim evaluation and financial statements as are
required under the Development Credit Agreement;
(vi)        arranging for the establishment of letters of credits, if any:
(vii)       ensuring that financial regulations are complied with by the staff
working under his control;
(viii)      signing or countersigning of checks; and
(x)         such other duties as may be assigned by the Pro.1c. t biector.
(d)   The Project Procurement Specialist
Under the general direction of the Project Director, the Project
Procurement Specialist shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(i)         the procurement of all furniture, equipment, books and materials
for the Project institutions;
(ii)        the itemization and listing of all goods required for the Project
showing the specifications and the esuinatcd unit and total costs
of each item. and the arrangement for the index coding and
numbcrim     f taoi -tcn for identification with each of the
Project iiit;tion- and wiln "e space for which they are
required:
(iii)       the grouping of goods to r. prciTreI      LI us to permit bulk
nrocurement consistent with sound tccnid and procuiement
practlcet;


﻿26
(iv)        the drafting of standard documents for inviting bids and the
implementation of bidding procedures in accordance with
Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(v)         the evaluation of bids received for all goods;
(vi)        the inspection of goods to ensure that correct quantities are
received to the correct specifications; and
(vii)       the arrangefnent of safe custody and delivery of the goods to
designated sites in accordance with target dates laid down.


