Document of        x<-,,, CIRCULATING COPFy 
Document of          TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE COPY                      The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1942-GR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
HELLENIC STATE
FOR THE
SALONICA AND VOLOS SEWERAGE PROJECT
November 15, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may- be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                            Drachma
The Greek Drachma is now defined in terms of a basket of currencies
including the US dollar and those of its other major trading partners,
and is floating. For this report the following currency equivalents
were used:
Dr. 1                                                    US$0.03
US$ 1                                                    Dr. 35
Dr. 1,000                                                US$28.57
Dr. 1,000,000                                            US$28,571
Fiscal Year                        January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ETVA                              Hellenic Industrial Development Bank
IOKAE                             Institute of Oceanographic and Fishing Research
MCP                               Ministry of Coordination and Planning
MI                                Ministry of Interior
MPW                               Ministry of Public Works
SSA                               Salonica Sewerage Authority
SWA                               Salonica Water Authority
UNDP                              United Nations Development Program
VMWSA                              Volos Municipal Water and Sewerage Authority
VWSO                              Water and Sewerage Municipal Organization
for the Greater Volos Area (Volos Water
and Sewerage Organization)
WHO                               World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HELLENIC STATE FOR THE SALONICA AND VOLOS SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hellenic State for the equivalent of US$36 million, to finance the
foreign exchange cost of a sewerage project. The loan would have a term of 15
years including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.7 percent per annum. The
equivalent of $29.5 million and $6.1 million would be provided, respectively,
to the Salonica Sewerage Authority and to the Volos Water and Sewerage Organi-
zation on the same terms as the Bank Loan. The remaining $0.4 million will be
used for related studies and training.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum - Greece" dated
September 30, 1976 was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 12,
1976 and its conclusions are summarized below. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        Following the Cyprus crisis in July 1974, the seven-year old mili-
tary regime was replaced by an interim civilian Government. In November 1974,
an elected Government, backed by a large parliamentary majority, was estab-
lished. In December 1974, the Greek people voted to establish a republic. A
new constitution establishing a parliamentary system with a strong presidency
was approved in June 1975. The new Government has been concerned with the
re-establishment of democracy. On economic issues, it is addressing the need
to restore and broaden international economic relations, especially with
the EEC. It has taken measures to revive economic activity, reduce price
inflation, and correct a growing balance of payments deficit. Substantive
negotiations with the EEC are expected to begin early next year for accession
to full membership.
4.        Throughout the 1960's and up to 1972, the Greek economy enjoyed
rapid GDP growth averaging 7.9 percent per year in real terms, and relatively
stable prices. However, by the end of 1972, as the economy reached full
employment, supply constraints began to develop and domestic prices came under
increasing inflationary pressure which was reinforced by the termination of
price controls in 1973, increases in import prices (particularly petroleum
after October 1973), higher agricultural support prices and increased Govern-
ment expenditures. Consumer prices, which had increased by less than 3
percent per annum on average during 1968-72, rose 16 percent in 1973 and 27
percent in 1974. The restrictive policies that the Government adopted to
combat inflation and the worldwide recession, together with the impact of
the Cyprus crisis and domestic political uncertainties, severely affected
economic growth, causing a decline of 2.7 percent in the GDP (at market
prices) in 1974.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Economic performance in 1975, however, was much better.    Preliminary
estimates indicate that real GDP (at market prices) increased by 5.6 percent.
Agricultural output increased by 3.0 percent, industrial output by 4.3 percent,
and output of services by a moderate 3.7 percent. The revival of economic
activity picked up momentum towards the end of 1975 and has continued through
early 1976 and was led by a recovery in demand, particularly in consump-
tion, both public and private. Economic growth was accompanied by a signifi-
cant decline in the rate of inflation estimated at 14 percent in 1975, only
half the rate in 1974.
6.        As the signs of economic recovery began to emerge and the inflation
seemed to be abating, the Government adopted an expansionary policy whose
major elements were: (a) a liberal incomes policy which permitted increases
in wages including those of public sector employees; (b) an expansionary
fiscal policy which significantly strengthened aggregate demand through
public expenditure; (c) an exchange rate policy involving the devaluation of
the drachma; and (d) an accommodating monetary policy which ensured enough
liquidity in the economy to permit the growth in output that occurred in 1975.
The authorities nevertheless remain acutely aware of the competing policy
prescriptions that inevitably emanate from the priorities of economic manage-
ment, viz. growth, controlling inflation and limiting the deficit in the
balance of payments.
7.        Agriculture and industry are the key economic sectors.    Agriculture
still accounts for about 19 percent of GDP, 35 percent of employment and
37 percent of exports: Growth continues to be hampered by the small size
and fragmented nature of farm holdings, insufficient development of irrigation
and inadequate extension services. Industry, including construction, has been
the most dynamic sector, with an average annual growth of nearly 10 percent in
real terms since 1960, and its share in GDP increased from nearly 26 percent
in 1965 to 30 percent in 1975. The share of manufactured goods in total
exports nearly doubled, from 25 percent in 1968 to 48 percent in 1975. Despite
rising productivity, Greek industrial growth is still restricted by a small
domestic market, limited export orientation, inappropriate plant size and
heavy dependence on capital goods imports. The Government's policy for indus-
trial investment has been influenced significantly by these considerations,
especially by the need for better export performance and to face competition
from European manufacturers following entry into the European Economic Com-
munity (EEC).   In pursuit of this policy, the Government is encouraging
industries which may have a competitive edge and are preferably based on
indigenous resources. The Government is keen to develop the mining sector,
especially energy-related subsectors such as oil and lignite, in view of its
foreign exchange earning or saving potential.
8.        The balance of payments showed a slight improvement in 1975 with a
current account deficit of $1.0 billion compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
The improvement occurred because of substantial gains in invisible earnings,
a 10 percent increase in exports and a marginal increase in import value. The



- 3 -
volume of imports actually declined due to the low level of economic activity
and considerable destocking of inventories. Exchange rate policy seems to
have contributed significantly to the improvement of the balance of payments.
From mid-year to late 1975, the drachma was adjusted downwards against major
currencies amounting to a depreciation of 22 percent, which restored, at
least in part, the loss in competitiveness of Greek exports due to the infla-
tion in 1974. Tourism earnings increased significantly, workers remittances
also showed a strong upturn and revenues from shipping remained at a fairly
high level. Total net invisible receipts were $1.9 billion and provided a
major offset to the negative trade balance of $2.9 billion.
9.        Greece's balance of payments has shown persistent deficits over
many years, which have risen sharply since 1973. This imbalance reflects a
high degree of dependence on imports of capital goods and machinery to sup-
port development activities and a high income elasticity of import demand for
consumer goods. The production structure of the economy has not been ade-
quately geared to meet the rising demand for sophisticated capital equipment
and certain kinds of high quality consumer goods. Export expansion, while
significant, has not been sufficient to cover the rising import bill. Heavy
capital inflows have, therefore, been needed to cover the large deficits on
the current account as well as to provide for debt servicing, movements in
reserves and related items. According to official estimates, total capital
inflows in 1975 were $1,600 million; of this amount, $965 million were on
private account, and $635 million on Government account, all borrowed largely
on commercial terms due to limited access to long-term capital markets.
Greece continues to face difficulties in obtaining long-term capital and the
need to borrow abroad on commercial terms has added to the balance of payments
problems through the increased debt burden.
Prospects
10.       The prospects in 1976 are for GDP to grow by 5 percent based on
sustained output increases in manufacturing and services. W4hile the pace of
revival in private investment activity remains a concern, growth in aggregate
demand would be sufficient to lead to 5 percent growth provided there is a
reasonable degree of price stability. It is expected that the rate of price
increase may well be held around 10 percent provided: the Government is
successful in containing wage increases to moderate levels, sufficient imports
are available to supplement domestic supplies of a broad range of products and
existing controls on monetary expansion continue. The current account deficit
is likely to increase to $1.2 billion compared to $1.0 billion last year.
This is based on a projected growth of 15 percent in exports and 12 percent in
imports. Imports of capital goods and raw materials are particularly volatile,
and if private investment activity picks up, imports may increase faster than
anticipated, leading to a higher current account deficit. The Government will
need to borrow nearly at the same level as in the last year, again mostly from
commercial sources.



- 4 -
11.       Assistance from the EEC over the next five years is expected to be
at a rate of $65-70 million a year after a new financial protocol is finalized
with the European Investment Bank (EIB), perhaps by early next year. Over the
long term, Greece stands to gain significantly from full membership in the EEC
mainly by hastening changes in its economy towards a more developed and effi-
cient production structure. A net financial inflow of about $360 million a
year is expected after full membership outside the new financial protocol
with the EIB, mostly for agriculture and regional development. In the
interim, significant infrastructure investment will have to be undertaken to
conform with European standards, and there will be considerable problems of
adaptation largely due to the structural differences between the economy of
Greece and those of the EEC. Besides, the administrative requirements of
implementing European policies and directives, such as the Common Agricultural
Policy (CAP), are likely to be considerable. The benefits, however, may in-
clude greater inflow of foreign investment and technology and more efficient
management. Membership is expected to bring greater rationalization and
hence competitiveness of production and export activities, and may help the
Government overcome institutional rigidities in enacting and implementing
far-reaching socio-economic reforms which otherwise would be difficult to
undertake.
12.       The Bank's assessment indicates that GDP growth of about 5.5 percent
is likely in the medium-term, but the problems of inflation and the balance of
payments are major constraints on future growth. The current account deficit
is expected to increase somewhat from $1.0 billion in 1975 to about $1.4
billion in 1980. To finance this deficit and to allow for increased amortiza-
tion payments and improvements in reserves, the Government will have to borrow
annually, at roughly the same level as in 1975. However, in view of Greece's
limited access to long term concessionary finance, the Government will need to
continue to borrow on commercial terms.
13.       Public external debt outstanding (including undisbursed) at the end
of 1975 amounted to $2.96 billion compared to $2.7 billion at the end of 1974.
Debt service payments in 1975 reached $442 million (of which $11.3 million was
for World Bank loans), and represented 9.7 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services and workers' remittances. Based on reasonable expectations
regarding export growth and future borrowing, the debt service ratio would be
about 11 percent by 1980. About 2.6 percent of total service payments would
be due to the Bank. In view of the good prospects for future economic growth,
even if at a lower rate than in the past, Greece remains creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
14.       Bank lending to Greece started in 1968, after disputes in connec-
tion with the country's pre-war external debt had been substantially settled.
Greece has received twelve loans totalling $303.9 million (net of cancella-
tions), of which $271.3 million was held by the Bank as of September 30, 1976.
These include five loans totalling $96.6 million to the National Investment



Bank for Industrial Development (NIBID), three loans for education ($82.3
million), three loans for irrigation ($95 million) and a highway loan ($30
million). The execution of Bank-financed projects has generally been satis-
factory, although slow and subject to significant cost overruns due to both
domestic and international inflationary pressures. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1976.
15.       Bank assistance to Greece has the following objectives:    supporting
institutional reform and essential infrastructure in key sectors, including
irrigation, sewerage and wastewater disposal, and highways; modernizing key
sectors such as agriculture and education; and reducing regional income and
social disparities through support for selected regional or rural develop-
ment programs. A project for the development of one of Greece's rural pro-
vinces and a fruit and vegetable export project, both stressing institutional
objectives, are under preparation as is fourth education project, designed
to support new reforms initiated by the Government as well as to consolidate
those begun in connection with earlier projects.
16.       Although Greece has a much higher average per capita income than
that enjoyed by most other developing countries, continued Bank lending for
a limited time is justified in view of the following considerations. First,
given the magnitude of its external capital requirements, it will be difficult
for Greece to meet its borrowing needs for development on reasonable terms
entirely from market sources. Continued Bank lending will not only provide
some modest direct concessionary assistance, but also facilitate Greece's
access to capital markets. Second, Greece still has large pockets of poverty
and serious regional imbalances in incomes and development, and needs assist-
ance in modernizing some of its key sectors. Third, the country is poorly
equipped institutionally and administratively to take full advantage of its
impending membership in the European Economic Community as well as to develop
key sectors like agriculture. The Government particularly wishes the Bank to
help strengthen selected institutions, for which the Bank is probably the only
available source of external funds, to meet these challenges. It is, however,
anticipated that Greece will be able to finance its development program
without resort to Bank funds within a few years.
17.       IFC has made investments totalling $16.1 million in six Greek com-
panies. An equity and loan investment of $0.6 million was made in a fertili-
zer factory in 1962 and sold in 1970. An equity investment of $0.7 million
was made in NIBID in 1965 and reduced to $0.1 million in 1974. Loan and
equity investments totalling $8.7 million were made in an aluminium company in
1970 and 1972. In early 1975, IFC invested $1.1 million in an agro-industry
project in Larisa for processing of tomatoes from the area of the Groundwater
Development Project assisted by the Bank (Loan 754-GR). IFC recently contri-
buted another $0.1 million to expansion of this project to include the growing
and harvesting of tomatoes as well as the canning of apricots and peaches.
Other operations are under consideration.



- 6 -
PART III - THE SEWERAGE SUB-SECTOR
Introduction
18.       The sewerage sub-sector in Greece has failed to keep pace with
the requirements of rapid urbanization and industrialization. It faces
problems in three major areas: inadequate technical standards and pollution
control policies, weak local and national institutions, and unsatisfactory
financial policies and practices. Sewer system construction is based upon
outmoded technical standards and is undertaken with scant regard to economic
criteria. The operation of sewer systems is not related to the quality
requirements of receiving waters and controls over industrial wastewater
discharges do not exist. National institutions do not as yet have the capacity
for developing appropriate policies and providing leadership to the sub-sector,
while local institutions are weak and often fragmented, with a number of
municipal authorities servicing an urban area when a single system is needed.
Financial policies are inappropriate for securing the resources needed for the
sector, and beneficiaries are not bearing a reasonable share of costs. There
is thus a pressing need to develop the needed policies, institutions and
skills at both the national and local levels. The Government is aware of the
shortcomings of its institutions in the sewerage field and has requested
assistance not only from the Bank but also from UNDP and WHO. WHO has already
conducted a preliminary study of the institutional aspects of the establishment
of a national environmental protection agency. UNDP has offered financial
assistance for the feasibility studies of the Athens sewerage system and WHO
has been assisting in selecting consultants for this work.
Background
19.       Intensive urbanization (4 percent p.a.), rapid industrial growth
(10 percent p.a.) and uncontrolled discharge of industrial liquid wastes have
caused severe pollution of rivers and coastal waters, with attendant adverse
effects on fisheries, recreation, tourism and public health -- fragmentary
evidence suggests the incidence of waterborne disease in the heavily polluted
urban areas is much higher than for the country as a whole. Most Greek cities
are located on the coast and depend on simple sewer systems discharging at the
shore into surface waters. Only parts of Athens and Salonica have integrated
networks discharging through submarine outfalls, but without treatment. In-
land communities depend mainly on septic tanks and percolation pits and only
recently have started construction of sewer systems, which usually discharge
without treatment into the nearest body of water. Although new facilities are
being built with separate waste and storm water sewers, most of the existing
facilities are combined, increasing the health hazard. Sea water pollution in
Greek coastal waters also contributes to the larger Mediterranean pollution
problem. Greece is one of the governments in the region which have committed
themselves to address this problem under the recent Barcelona agreement.
20.       Major sewer projects are prepared by the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW), usually with the assistance of private consultants. They are approved



- 7 -
on their technical merits by MPW's Hydraulic Division, which has only a small
technical staff. Designs are governed by outdated specifications and proce-
dures, and neither financial nor organizational analysis is presently under-
taken. As a result, systems are over-designed, phased construction is not
used, and the absorptive capacities of the receiving waters and water quality
requirements are ignored. However, the quality of construction, which is
carried out by private contractors supervised by the regional offices of MPW,
is generally good.
21.       Water supply and sewer systems have traditionally been operated
by the municipalities under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Inte-
rior (MI). However, urban development crossing municipal boundaries has
already led in Athens and Salonica to the creation of regional water and
sewerage authorities, and regionalization is being considered in other urban
areas. Systems are presently financed by government grants, loans and local
revenues and taxes. Following construction with government funds, major works
are presently handed over to the local authorities without provision for
repayment. Sewerage tariffs are not generally set in relation to costs; but
often as a fixed proportion of water tariffs. In some cities, taxes collected
on the rental values of property have been assigned to sewerage construction.
Present revenues are too low to finance the required investments in sewerage
systems. Both the technical and financial policy frameworks are as yet
unsuitable for autonomous operations, and the existing regional authorities
are presently subject to detailed control of all aspects of their operations.
They also lack the technical and financial expertise to be more independent,
and accounting and financial control systems suitable for semi-autonomous
organizations need to be developed.
22.       Salonica.   Greater Salonica, the location of the largest project
component, is the second largest city of Greece with a population of about
700,000, the effective capital of northern Greece and a natural gateway to
the Balkans and Central Europe (Map 12213). The metropolitan area includes
22 townships and extends for about 60 km along the shores of Salonica Bay.
Three industrial zones are located northwest of the city, and a fourth is
under development. The downtown area of the city was sewered during the
1930's with a combined network discharging to the inner Salonica Bay through
a submarine outfall. This system has been gradually extended but is now in-
adequate. Because of discharges of raw sewage into the surface waters, there
have been frequent fish kills. A high incidence of water-borne disease has
forced the closing of several beaches and the prohibition of fishing.
23.       Topography dictates that the   greater Salonica area be sewered
eventually by two systems. The Axios system will serve the city, the poorer
suburbs which presently are not sewered, and all three existing industrial
zones. This system includes the structures needed to intercept and treat the
sewage, followed by discharge of the effluent into the Axios river. The Mega
Emvolon system, which is proposed to be built at a later stage, will serve the
southeastern sector of the metropolitan area, and discharge into the Thermaikos
Gulf.



- 8 -
24.       The Salonica Sewerage Authority (SSA), a regional authority under
MPW, will operate the project facilities. It began operations in January
1976 and presently serves six municipalities and 13 townships. SSA is con-
trolled by a Board of five members plus a chairman, who are appointed by
various Government departments and the Salonica municipality. The day-
to-day operations are supervised by a Director-General reporting to the Board.
The authority is expected to be fully staffed with about 135 administrative,
professional and technical staff and about 130 manual workers by the end of
1976. Among the key staff, only a Financial Director remains to be
appointed. The law establishing SSA sets out its duties and responsibilities
in considerable detail, with most decisions of any importance subject to ap-
proval by various government departments, principally MPW. Sewerage charges
are collected by the separate Salonica Water Authority for SSA, and the
present computerized billing system is satisfactory.
25.       Volos.  Volos, other project city, is also located on a bay, on the
eastern coast of central Greece (Map 12212R). Although it has a population
of less than 100,000 inhabitants, it is the fourth largest city in Greece, and
provides a typical example of the sewerage problems faced by smaller cities.
Less than 10 percent of the existing population is served by sewers, the rest
relying on septic tanks. Present contamination is modest, but a new indus-
trial estate and the growing population pose dangers for the future. The long-
range sewer program provides for the expansion of the sewer system to serve
the metropolitan area and adjacent industrial estate. It will include facili-
ties for collection, pretreatment and disposal into the Pagasitikos Gulf. The
Greater Volos area is presently served by several water and sewerage authori-
ties, of which the principal one is the reasonably well operated Volos Municipal
Water and Sewerage Authority (VMWSA). In order to operate the project facili-
ties, the Government has prepared draft legislation to create a regional water
and sewerage authority covering the greater Volos area based upon the present
municipal authority.
26.       Sectoral Reform.   The principal reforms required in the organization
and management of the sewerage sector are threefold: first, the present
national authorities responsible for the sewerage subsector need strengthening
to enable them to develop and implement appropriate policies; second, the
present fragmented local authorities need to be strengthened with adequately
trained staff and a better policy framework and, where appropriate, combined
into regional authorities; and third, there is need for better coordination of
water supply and sewerage development. In Athens and Salonica, the Government
at first opted for separate regional authorities for water supply and for
sewerage, under the administrative supervision of MPW, but it now favors the
merger of water supply and sewerage under combined authorities for each urban
area. For the smaller cities, the government proposes to create new semi-
autonomous authorities under the administrative supervision of MI, since the
latter is more familiar with the problems of municipal administration and has
the appropriate expertise in administrative matters. Technical assistance to
these authorities for major projects and policy guidance on technical matters
will, however, be MPW's responsibility.



-9-
27.       National Water and Wastewater Authorities.    The technical focus of
the sewerage sub-sector is thus the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) where struc-
tural and essential procedural improvements will be undertaken. MPW intends
to expand the present small technical sewerage unit within its Hydraulics
Division's Water and Wastewater Directorate into a Wastewater Department with
additional staff and responsibilities. The Directorate will also include a
new Project Appraisal Department. MPW is expected to move away from its
present detailed involvement in specific projects toward providing general
policy guidance to the sub-sector and technical assistance on specific
problems (e.g. wastewater disposal) to the regional and local authorities.
28.       The Watewater Department will specifically be responsible for
issuing and maintaining up-to-date guidelines and specifications for design
and construction of sewerage systems; reviewing and approving feasibility
studies and designs of major sewerage projects and all treatment and disposal
facilities; preparing draft regulations on water quality criteria and indus-
trial wastewater discharges; providing technical assistance, guidance and
training to sewerage authorities; establishing, with the Institute of Oceano-
graphic and Fishing Research (IOKAE), the program for oceanographic work in
the sector; and advising on water pollution aspects of industriaL investments.
The Project Appraisal Department will review proposals for major sectoral
investments and advise on their financial, economic and operational feasi-
bility; advise on costs of pollution control regulations and provide guidance
on financial policies, accounting procedures and tariffs. The last function
will also be provided by the Ministry of Interior (MI) for the authorities
under its jurisdiction and both MPW and MI staff will be trained accordingly.
The Loan Agreement sets out the broad features of these arrangements and pro-
vides that before June 30, 1977, the Government will provide the Bank with its
specific proposals for staffing and training in the expanded MPW Directorate
and for the training of the relevant MI staff (Section 3.06 and Schedule 5).
The MPW Directorate is intended to be fully staffed by June 30, 1978.
29.       Regional Authorities.   As a complement to the above developments,
more independent municipal water and sewerage authorities are expected to be
established with broader powers than present municipalities and municipal
enterprises and with regional jurisdiction where this is appropriate. These
authorities will be given increased technical and financial capability so as
ultimately to construct and operate their own water and sewerage systems.
The project specifically provides for development of technical expertise
in the two project authorities through training by MPW in the supervision of
construction (see paragraph 46 below).
30.       As a first step, which is also needed for operation of the project
facilities, the Government is in the process of extending the geographical
jurisdiction of SSA and plans to pass legislation to modernize its tariff
powers to base future tariffs on costs, and, in addition, plans to pass
legislation to establish a regional Volos Water and Sewerage Organization
(VWSO) also with appropriate tariff powers. VWSO will serve the area, larger
than the project area, lying within the administrative boundaries of the
Municipalities of Volos and Nea Ionia and the Commune of Dimini including its
industrial estate (Map 12212R). The Loan Agreement makes enactment of appro-
priate legislation for at least one city a condition of effectiveness of the
loan; the enactment of legislation for the other city by June 30, 1978 would
be a condition of disbursement for that component (see also paragraph 56,



- 10 -
Loan Agreement Section 6.01(b) and Schedule 1). The Government plans to use
the VWSO law to establish a legal framework for semi-autonomous water and
sewerage organizations which can be extended to other cities in Greece. The
law is considered a model for other cities and contains a specific provision
that organizations following its framework may be established by decree for
other cities without Parliament having to pass a law in each case. The draft
legislation, incorporating the Bank's suggestions, has been reviewed by the
Ministries and municipalities concerned and is expected to be presented to
Parliament shortly.
31.       To ensure adequate staffing for the two authorities, the Loan Agree-
ment provides that SSA will be staffed with qualified personnel, including an
experienced financial director, the only key position not yet filled, and that
VWSO will appoint a competent general manager within six months of its estab-
lishment and will otherwise be adequately staffed (Loan Agreement Section 3.03).
To provide for a better coordination of water supply and sewerage development,
a merger of SSA and the Salonica Water Authority (SWA) is envisaged. To
prepare for this, the accounting study and improvements under the project
(paragraph 32 below) will also cover the SWA. In addition, the Loan Agreement
provides that no merger will take place until completion of the studies and
then only on satisfactory terms and conditions (Loan Agreement Section 4.06).
32.       Financial Policies and Practices.    The introduction of sounder
financial policies and practices in the water and sewerage sub-sector is
needed to ensure adequate resources for the sector and better management of
them. The primary means of achieving this will be through the development of
authorities which earn adequate financial returns and are able to contribute
towards their own expansion. Existing accounting methods, financial controls
and tariff structures will be reviewed by consultants provided under the
project and specific proposals developed for the establishment of appro-
priate improved systems. The Loan Agreement provides that promptly following
review of the studies' recommendations, changes satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank will be introduced in all three authorities with the assistance
of consultants acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 4.03(c)). To
move towards self-financing regional authorities, the Government proposes to
introduce a policy of repayment for Government funds provided for construc-
tion, together with a cost-based tariff policy providing revenues sufficient
to meet expenses and a reasonable contribution towards future investments.
To ensure a smooth introduction of the new system, phased increases in tariffs
are envisaged.
33.       For SSA in Salonica, the Loan Agreement provides that promptly after
entering into the Salonica Agreement with the Government, SSA will set sewerage
tariffs so that total revenues from operations will be sufficient to cover all
expenses plus a contribution towards capital investments equal to 4 percent of
the net fixed assets in operation and under construction in each fiscal year
through 1981, and 2 percent thereafter (Loan Agreement Section 4.09). This
covenant differs from the usual rate of return covenant in that, to ensure
adequate cash flow for the Authority, expenses are defined to include a
number of items which are a drain on cash but are not normally classified as
expenses, such as debt service. The expected rate of return, using tariffs
set to meet this cash coverage covenant, will be higher than the figures



- 11 -
indicated above (see paragraph 50). Within three months after entering into the
Salonica Agreement, an initial increase to an average tariff of 4.00 Drachmas
($0.11) per cubic meter of water supplied, equivalent to an increase of about
30 percent in combined water and sewerage tariffs, will be put into effect by
SSA (Loan Agreement Schedule 6).
34.       For VWSO in Volos, the Loan Agreement provides that promptly after
entering into the Volos Agreement with the Government, combined resources from
water and sewerage operations should meet the same test as for SSA, except
that the percentage of net fixed assets test should be 1.5 percent after 1981,
reflecting the differences in the future construction program of the two
authorities and their differing asset and capital structures (Loan Agreement
Section 4.10). Within three months after entering into the Volos Agreement,
both water and sewerage tariffs would be increased by 45 percent by VWSO.
35.       A number of users are not presently paying for sewerage services.
Thus the Loan Agreement provides that, by December 1977, both SSA and VWSO
will extend their tariff systems to all users of sewerage services including
those supplied from private wells, and in Volos, those located in the indus-
trial estate (Sections 4.09 and 4.10). Under the above tariff formula,
average sewerage tariffs by 1982 would be about $0.37/m3 in Salonica and
$0.40/m3 in Volos, about six times current levels. In 1976 constant prices,
these tariffs would be equal to about $0.23/m3 in Salonica and $0.25/m3 in
Volos, or about four times current levels and reasonable in terms of the users
capacity to pay. The Loan Agreement also provides that based upon the results
of an industrial wastewater study (paragraph 39 below), appropriate surcharges
will be put into effect by the two authorities by December 31, 1979 (Loan
Agreement, Sections 4.09(c) and 4.10(c)).
36.       Since water and sewerage tariffs are interlinked, water tariff
structures are outdated, and a number of water users are receiving free water,
it was agreed that, in both Salonica and Volos, following the completion of
the review of tariff structures under the project, the relevant authorities
will implement more appropriate water tariff structures and will begin to
meter present free water supplies (Loan Agreement Section 4.08). The objec-
tive is to develop a tariff system under which the users pay the costs, but
which does not unduly burden low-income consumers nor discourage the rational
use of water.
37.       Technical Policies and Pollution Control.    The introduction of
better technical procedures and pollution control policies are two of the
major improvements needed in the sub-sector. Considerable technical progress
has already been achieved during project preparation. The preliminary ocean-
ographic surveys conducted by the Institute of Oceanographic and Fishing
Research (IOKAE) for the MPW in Salonica and Volos were the first attempt
made in Greece to evaluate the environmental impact of sewerage projects.
These surveys, made in accordance with the terms of reference prepared by
the Bank proved so successful that MPW has requested IOKAE to conduct similar
surveys for other sewerage projects presently under study. To ac:complish
this work, IOKAE is expanding its laboratory and recruiting additional staff.



- 12 -
Since adequate monitoring of the receiving waters is a basic requirement
for any water pollution control program, the Government also intends to
develop IOKAE's expertise on monitoring of fresh and ocean waters. In
preparing the project, oceanographic data was used for the first time to
determine the need for and level of treatment, the location of facilities and
other design parameters; and cost effectiveness criteria were applied to
determine the size of the proposed facilities. Supervision of the project
bidding and construction under Bank guidance are expected to introduce further
technical and procedural improvements, but the main impact is expected from
the studies and training provided, which are expected to contribute to more
general improvements and to the development of country-wide pollution control
policies.
38.       An oceanographic study of the Thermaikos and Pagasitikos Gulfs,
carried out by IOKAE, will provide the oceanographic data needed for the final
designs of the second stage investments of both the Salonica and the Volos
sewerage programs, and determine parameters for future monitoring of the
receiving waters in the project areas. The project also provides for as-
sistance in undertaking a review of the proposed treatment and disposal
procedures for the Mega Emvolon system, the second stage of the Salonica
construction program. This system is expected to be a pilot project for the
use of reclaimed wastewater for irrigation purposes in Greece, of particular
interest because of the limited water resources of the country. It will also
provide for the adequate protection of bathing beaches and shellfish beds.
39.       Present industrial wastewater management is inadequate and MPW lacks
the expertise to develop and implement reasonable and effective policies.
An industrial wastewater survey will be carried out to provide data on present
and future flows and wastewater characteristics, in both Volos and Salonica.
On the basis of this data, recommendations will be made covering the need for
treatment and disposal facilities, wastewater discharge guidelines for the
removal of noxious substances by industry, and a monitoring program for
industrial wastewater discharges. The monitoring program will provide for
the staff and equipment requirements, points and frequency of measurement and
parameters to monitor.
40.       The existing Volos Municipal Water and Sewerage Authority (VMWSA) is
presently carrying out an expensive investment program for new water sources
started because of possible contamination of the city's aquifer. The Loan
Agreement provides that appropriate monitoring of the aquifer will be under-
taken to more accurately determine the extent of any contamination before
further major investments are initiated (Loan Agreement Section 4.12).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History, Concept and Description
41.       The Government of Greece has been aware for some years of the tech-
nical, administrative and financial weaknesses of the institutions serving
the sewerage sub-sector at the national and the local levels, which are



- 13 -
described more fully in Part IIi above. In July 1972 the Bank was asked to
help identify and prepare a sewerage project. Detailed preparation of the
project was carried out by consultants hired by the Government, by the
Institute of Oceanographic Studies and Fishing Research (IOKAE) and by the
Hellenic Industrial Development Bank (ETVA). The Bank provided technical
assistance at various stages of project preparation. The project was appraised
in February 1976, and negotiations were held in Washington in October 1976.
The Greek delegation was led by Mr. Petros Papadakis, Director-General of the
Ministry of Coordination.
42.       The report, "Appraisal of the Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project,
Greece" (No. 1224-GR), dated November 12, 1976 is being distributed separately.
A loan and project summary is provided as Annex III. The primary objective of
the proposed project is to assist Greece in implementing the needed institu-
tional improvements in the sub-sector, including reforms in technical and
financial policies and practices and better organizational arrangements,
through priority pilot investments in Salonica and Volos. The broad features
of these reforms' are described in Part III above. The proposed project
consists of:
(a) final engineering and construction of the first stage,
1977 to 1981, of the Greater Salonica Area sewerage program
including the Axios system serving the city of Salonica and
its existing industrial zones and partial rehabilitation
of the existing Salonica network, involving construction of
about 65 km of secondary sewers, 18 km of trunk and force
mains, 6 pumping stations, 8 km of gravity interceptors
and about 25 km of the main interceptor, as well as a
primary treatment plant and sewer inspection and main-
tenance equipment;
(b) final engineering and construction of the first stage, 1977
to 1981, of the Greater Volos Area sewerage program, including
the infrastructure to serve the projected 1995 population, pre-
treatment facilities for wastewater, about 113 kms of related
secondary sewers, 18 kms of trunk and force mains, 6 pumping
stations, a pre-treatment plant, a 8 km interceptor and an
ocean outfall;
(c) technical assistance for: (i) a feasibility study for the
Mega Emvolon Sewerage system in the Greater Salonica Area;
(ii) industrial wastewater surveys in the Greater Salonica
and Volos areas to determine appropriate industrial wastewater
policies and tariffs; (iii) oceanographic studies of the
Thermaikos and Pagasitikos Gulfs to minimize pollution of
the project receiving waters, and (iv) studies of the systems
of accounting and financial control of the responsible water
and sewerage authorities and of their tariff structures;
and
(d) training for MPW and MI senior staff.



- 14 -
43.       The proposed project provides for 220 man-months of consultant ser-
vices, including 20 man-months of foreign consultants, to assist in carrying
out studies. An additional 1,200 man-months, including 250 man-months for
foreign consultants, are provided to assist in final design and supervi-
sion of construction of the two components which is reasonable for a project
of this type.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       The total estimated cost of the project is $113.5 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $36 million. Including physical and price con-
tingencies, the Salonica component is estimated to cost $87.7 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $29.5 million, with the costs for the the Volos
component $24.8 million and $6.1 million respectively. Studies and training
will cost an additional $1.0 million, of which $0.4 million is expected to be
in foreign exchange. Details are given in Annex III. The cost estimates
assume that the civil works contracts will be won by local contractors. An
average physical contingency of 11 percent and an average price contingency of
58 percent have been provided (51 percent on foreign costs and 61 percent on
local costs). The average costs of consulting services used are about $4,800
per man-month for foreign consultants and $2,100 for Greek consultants.
45.       The proposed loan of $36 million equivalent will finance the for-
eign costs of the project and cover 32 percent of the total project costs.
The loan would be to the Hellenic State for 15 years including a three-year
grace period. The financing plans for the two sub-projects are shown below:
Amount
US$ (Million)                 %
Salonica
Internal Cash Generation and Other                14.9                   17.0
Borrowings
IBRD Loan                                       29.5                  33.6
Government Loan                                 43.3                   49.4
Total:                                        87.7                 100.0
Volos
Internal Cash Generation                           2.9                  11.6
Borrowings
IBRD Loan                                        6.1                  24.6
Government Loan                                  7.9                  31.9
Government Equity                                  7.9                  31.9
Total:                                        24.8                 100.0
The Government will also provide $0.6 million equivalent for the local costs
of the studies and training. As can be seen, substantial funds are expected
to be provided from the authorities' own sources, particularly in Salonica



- 15 -
where an existing system broadens the revenue base. In any case, the Govern-
ment has agreed to provide, or cause to be provided, all the funds needed to
carry out the project under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Loan
Agreement section 3.01). Upon completion, all the project works will have
been transferred to the local sewerage authorities. The authorities will
repay the Government for the Bank funds under the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan (Loan Agreement Section 3.01). Since the two authorities
may not have sufficient funds to provide customers with credit facilities to
cover connection fees and consumer contributions to construction costs, the
Government has agreed to provide funds for this purpose (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01 (d)).
Project Execution
46.       MPW will have primary responsibility for project execution which
by June 1977 will be assumed by its new Wastewater Department. MPW already
has adequate staff for this purpose, and will expand its staff as needed to
undertake the wider responsibilities envisioned for it in future. Final
designs will be prepared by consultants acceptable to the Bank and construc-
tion will be carried out under their supervision by qualified contractors,
both under the overall supervision of MPW. In order to develop the capability
of the two project authorities to undertake future project design and con-
struction, staff from the two authorities will be assigned by June 1978 to
work with MPW staff on the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). Because of
the specialized technical expertise required, the responsibility for con-
struction of treatment plants and disposal facilities will remain with MPW
for the foreseeable future. The consultants for project final designs should
be selected and employed before December 31, 1976 (Loan Agreement Section
3.04). Construction is expected to have started by the end of 1977 and to be
completed in 1981 and will require the acquisition of land and rights of way
and the relocation of a small number of households. Agreement has been
reached that the land and rights of way will be acquired in a timely manner.
Greek law provides for relocation of displaced residents (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.08).
47.       The studies of industrial wastewater, accounting and financial con-
trol and the feasibility of the Mega Emvolon sewerage system will be carried
out by consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment will be acceptable to the Bank. Because of the importance of
the first two studies to the institutional objectives of the project (para-
graphs 32 and 39 above), the Government has agreed that the consultants for
these will be employed by June 30, 1977 (Loan Agreement Section 3.04). The
oceanographic studies will be carried out under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank by IOKAE under contract with MPW. IOKAE is adequately staffed
for this purpose. To evaluate the progress towards the projects technical,
financial and administrative objectives and provide guidance in the develop-
ment of future policies, the Government has agreed to monitor key indicators
of performance on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agree-
ment Section 3.07(c)).



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more than
$200,000, and civil works contracts estimated to cost more than $500,000,
will be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Group's guidelines. Bidders will be prequalified. Domestic manu-
facturers of equipment will be given a margin of preference of 15 percent
or customs duties, whichever is lower. Other equipment and civil works con-
tracts will be awarded on the basis of the procedures of MPW, which provide
for competitive bidding advertised locally but open to foreign firms and are
acceptable. Contracts will be grouped to the extent practicable after consul-
tation with Bank. Minor works, such as service connections and rehabilita-
tion or replacement of secondary sewers, may be carried out by the project
authorities under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate
value of $1.0 million. In order to continue the necessary oceanographic
studies and to enable final design to be started, advance contracting is con-
templated for work by IOKAE and by the engineering consultants. Retroactive
financing of up to $100,000 is provided for expenditures incurred after June
30, 1976 for this purpose.
49.       The loan would be disbursed against 24 percent of expenditures on
civil works and materials (representing the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent), 100 percent of foreign expenditures--and 100 percent of local ex-
penditures (ex-factory), in the unlikely event that local manufacturers win
contracts for equipment--100 percent of foreign expenditures for consulting
services, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training of staff.
Financial Projections
50.       Pro-forma financial statements have been prepared for the two new
authorities and projections of their future earnings made under the tariff
provisions noted in paragraphs 33 to 35. SSA is projected to earn a rate
of return after tax on total net fixed assets of 5 to 6 percent from 1981
onward, and VWSO about 4 percent after 1981. SSA would have a debt equity
ratio of about 50/50 in 1981, which would fall thereafter, and debt service
coverage would be 1.4-1.5 times in each year following project completion.
For VWSO, the debt equity ratio would be about 45:55 by 1980 and and remain
fairly constant thereafter; debt service coverage is expected to be 1.4-1.5
times in each year following project completion. In order to ensure the
liquidity of both SSA and VWSO, agreement has been reached that further
borrowings will not be undertaken by either authority without Bank concurrence
unless net revenues (before depreciation and interest) exceed 1.3 times debt
service in any future year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.11). The accounts and
financial statements of SSA and VWSO will be annually audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The main benefit anticipated from the project will be the development
of institutions and policies which can cope in an efficient and expeditious
manner with the long-term human, environmental and developmental problems



- 17 -
posed by wastewater disposal in Greece. The proposed Salonica sub-project
will specifically help prevent further deterioration of the water quality of
Salonica Bay, eliminate the odors which presently affect the city during part
of the summer and allow the reestablishment of fishing and reopening of
bathing beaches. The project will help eliminate the unsanitary conditions
created by overloaded septic tanks serving the poorest areas, and by the
present discharge of raw sewage into inland water courses. Some adverse
effects will result from the discharge of primary effluent into the Axios
River, although these effects will be reduced by the use of chemical coagula-
tion. The problem is expected to become serious only after 1995 when either
the upgrading of treatment or the construction of an effluent outfall will be
required. Since the affected part of the Axios River is not presently
populated, these adverse effects will be far outweighed by the resulting
benefits of improved sanitation in and around the city.
52.       In Volos, the proposed sub-project will allow closing down a
large number of the septic tanks which constitute a serious threat to the
city's water supply, and will stop the incipient deterioration of the bay's
water quality. The preliminary oceanographic studies indicate that the pro-
posed outfall location provides for adequate dilution of the pollutant ex-
pected up to 1995 and thus no significant detrimental affects are expected.
53.       While there is increasing recognition of the important benefits de-
riving from well-conceived sewerage projects, including the positive environ-
mental effects noted above, these benefits are difficult to quantify. The
dangers of large-scale industrial pollution to health often cannot be veri-
fied until after long exposure. The project will improve health, increase
property values and ameliorate fishing and recreation, as a result of the
removal of wastewaters from inland areas and the improvement of coastal waters
and beaches. Moreover, the proposed systems are necessary for the orderly
development of the two cities. The proposed methods of collection, treatment,
and disposal of sewerage are adequate and represent the least cost solutions
for each project area.
54.       The investments and measures supported by the proposed loan are an
integrated and well-conceived package. Nevertheless, some of the changes
envisaged require legislative approval and therefore face the risk that the
legislative authorities will not act promptly or will disagree with the
Government's proposals. There are also the usual risks of delay and cost
increases associated with a large and complex construction program. These
risks are mitigated by the Government's strong desire to make fundamental
changes in the sub-sector, and by the careful attention that has been given
to the preparation of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hellenic State (the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution



- 18 -
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft agreement conforms generally to the normal pattern for
loans for sewerage projects.
56.        It is a special condition of loan effectiveness that either one of
the following sets of events has occurred:
(a) with respect to SSA: (1) SSA's jurisdiction,
responsibilities and tariff powers have been appro-
priately extended and modified in a manner satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank; and (2) a
satisfactory agreement has been entered into between
the Borrower and SSA; or
(b) with respect to VWSO: (1) VWSO has been established
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
and (2) a satisfactory agreement has been entered into
between the Borrower and VWSO.
It is a special condition of disbursement for each sub-project that the set
of events referred to above relating to that sub-project has taken place by
June 30, 1978.
57.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 15, 1976



ANNEX I
Page Tof 6 pages
TABLE 3A
GREECE               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AaEA (THOU K1(121                ---     ----
--------------       ~GREECE                                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       131.9                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.         ..                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           SPAIN        BILDIUI     FNUJE
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                     530.0     1390.0     2360.0*            1560.0      3760.0      3620.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
PCP'ILATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            8.3        8.8        9.1               33.6         9.7        50.8
PnPULATION DENSITY
PEP SOUARE KM.                        63.0       67.0      69.0                67.0       317.0        93.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         93.0       99.0        *-                97.0       599.0       154.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVFIRAGE 8IRTH RATE (/THOU)           19.4       18.1      15.4                21.0        16.3        17.6
AVE9AGE DEATH RATE (/THOU)             7.3        8.0       9.4                 8.8        12.3        11.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)         40.1      29.6       24.0                27.9        21.1        18.2
LIFE FgEPCTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        68.0       70.9      71.8                70.8        70.9        11.6
GRCRS FPQO0UCTIUN RATE                1.1        1.0       1.0                 1.4         1.3         1.3
PCPJLATICK GQOwTH PATE (U)
'9TAL                                  1.0        0,5/a     0.7                 1.1         0.5         1.1
liJ.EN                                 2.1        1.5         ..                2.0         1.3         2.5
UPHAE[ PliPULATION (- OF TlTALI         57.0       62.6         ..               59.1        71.2        70.2
A,0C STPIICTURE (PF9CFNTI
0 Ti 14 YFARS                        26.7      24.9       24.4                77.8        23.7        24.0
15 Ttl 64 YEARS                      b6.1       64.0       63.9                62.5        63.0        62.6
cs Y ARS ANC 'JVED                     8.2       11.1      11.7                 9.7        13.3        13.4
AGF VECONDENCY RATI,                     0.5        0.6       0.6                 0.6         0.6         0.6
LCCrN-1IC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9         ..       1.1 aI .1                       0.9         0.9
FAfILY PLANNING
ACCFPTORS (CUMULATIVF, TDO)             ..         ..        .. I
LSEPS C2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..        ..
'EPLOYME1T
TOTAL LARCE FORCF ITHIUSANO)          3600.0 /       ..     3300.0            11900.0      3600.0     20600.0
LAP.2 F1lRCE IN AGRICULTURE (7)         54.0         ..       34.0               24.8         5.0        15.1
LNR-PLIYEC IT rF LAOCR FORCE)            6.0 /5      ..        3.0 /ab            2.0 /a      3.0 /a      2.2
INCIEF OISTPIBUTIUN
% [IF PIIVATE INCOL: REC*n 8Y-
HIGHIST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS              18.7 Ic     ..          ..
HIGH ST 20t OF HGUSEHOLDS             44.7 7       ..        ...
L'4IWST  20r rF HOUSFHOLDS             6.3 7       ..        ...
ICWPST  4J0 OF HUISEHOLDS             17.4 7       ..        ...
OIS TA IJTION OF LAND 04\ERSHIP
______________________________
8 CwNEn AY TCP 1t0 OF OWNERS                                 275 I/a
t OWN-0) IY SEALLEST 10   OWNERS                               2.6 7a-
HEALTH ANO NUTEITION
POPULATTION PEF PHYSICIAN              790.0/d    62J.0      500.0              753.o Ab    6S0.0       750.o
POIJI ATI ON PEP NUPSINC PERSCN       1260.07d e 1140.0    1480.0 / c          1430.0       410.0       370.0
R P.PLATIDN PEP HOSPITAL RED           170.07KXf 160.0      160.0               220.o       120. 0      140.0 IA
DFO CAPITA SUPPLY nF -
CAL PIES IA OF DEOUIPEMENTSI         120.0      116.0     128.0 /d            107.0       128.0       127.0
PAOTTIN (GPAMS PER OAY)               99. 0     99.0      113.0 7J             81.0       94.0        104.0
-r  ,HICP ANIMAL AND PULSE          39.0 &    52.0 /A      ..               40.0        56.0        66.0
IEATH mRTE t/TIiTTl  AGES 1-4             ..         ..        0.9 /a             0.9         0.9         0.8
EDUCATIUN
ADJUSTED FNROLLMENT IATin
PRIMARY SCHCOL                       109.0      106.0     107.0               131.0        111.0    118.0 /
SFCONDARY SCHr]OL                     39.0      66.0       69.0 ___            570         84.0       74 0w
YEARS OF SCHCCLING PROVIDEO                                                      57.0        H
(FIRST AND SECOND IEVEL)              12.0       12.0      12.0                13.0        14.0       14.0
VOCATIONAL ENRnLLMENT
1t CF SECONDARY)                      17.0 A    20.0       22.0 Ia             20.0       60.0        19.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE 18                  80.0       82.0         .                94.0        99.0        99.0
HOtS I NG
PERSONS PER ROjM (AVERAGF)               1.4         ..       0.9                             0.6         0.9
OCCUPIEC DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER 18)                       71.0 A               35 .0 jj             .         13. 0       9.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(3 OF ALL DWFLLINGS)                  53.0         *-      97.0 /d.                       99.0        99.0
RUpAL OWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELMCTPICITY (8)                    14.0         ..      77.0                 ..        98.0        98.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVEPS IPEP THOU POP)          85.0      111.0        ..               214.0       350.0      314.0
PASSFNGER CARS (PEE THOU POP)            5.0       26.0      39.0                70.0       213.0      254.0
ELECTRICITY IKWH/Yk PFR CAP)           274.0     1072. 0    1589.0             16 27.0     3199.0     2 759. 0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.6        1.6       5.9                 5.8        18.6        11.9
SEE NOTES ANO CEFINITIONS ON REVSRSE



ANNEX I
Page 2sof 0 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
197 3 and 1975.
* The 1975 current 7u0 figure, as estimated by 1976 Atlas methodology, has not yet been published.
am Considering Greece's. ismisent entry into the European EconMic CmrsuJty, cosparison with the French econoy is appropriate.
GREECE      1960     /a  inlding persons in compulsory military serices              /b  Eocludiogonenployed s-ane,          /c  1957-58. urban,       /d  1967,
______  ___  __  /e Includin  midwivs and cuses withmidwifey qualifications,      /f  Including naterniy hospitals,         /&  1960-62,
/b  Teac.her training not included in secondary school enrollment           /t   Inside only.
1970     IaDue to esigration, growth rare is lower than rate of natural increase,              lb  1967.
m    .OOTRECiNT USTIMaTI:   Is  1971,     lb  Encluding unemployed usamen,        Ic  1972,     Id   1969-71 averag,       Ic  5-li and 11-lb years cf
_________________   -    ge;     If  Data refer to house.holds,      Li   Inside only.
SPAlN       1970     /aRegistered umesplayed,         lb  gegiutered, not all praticing in the country'           Ic  6-10 and 11-16 years of age respee tivo1y.
BELGIUIM    1970     /   Registered unemployed only.
PRANCE      1970     I   Gvernmet hospital establilments only,            lb  6-10 and 11-17 years of age respectively.
ill, Noveber 3. 1976
DEFINITIONS O1' SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kn                                                                            Poculatio   nepr nurIng peruon - Population divided by somber of praticing
Total - Total uurface area coprising land area an d inland waters,                              male and fMale Eroduate nurses, "trained" cc "certified" nuss,ad
Agric. - PIca crecent estimate of aiululoras used temporarily or Per-                           asmiiiary pe" rsnnel with training or esperienco.
"anesty for crops, pastures, narkat 6 kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Population, Per hospital bed - Population divided by masher of hospital
GNP pc capit     100S$) - tSP per capita esti-ta eu ottrret market prices,                       beds available in public and private genera       an .d specialisad hospito1
calculated by sane conversio     mthod as World sank Atlas (1973-75 basis),                   and rehabilitation centers, esoludes nursing hones and establishe-mts
1960. 1970 and 1975 data,       .for custodial and preventivecae
Per capita supply of calories (2 of rnsuirmcents) - Cvmputed fran
Eooainad vita    staistics                                                                 .nrgy eq~,ivalent of set food supplies avilable in voantry per
Popuatio  (md-yr  ailien  -  s cfJl    iu       fstaalbe            vrge                cPita per day, avsilable supplien coprise domeutin production, imports
of run end-year esiats        160. 1970 aud 1975 data,                                         les  enports. and changes in utock, set supplies e-clude animal feed.
seeds, quantities used in food processing and losses in distribution;
Population denity -pr        suare  h - Mlid-year population per square hilo-                    requiremets were estimated bly FAO hound on physicisgi-al scads for
meter (100 he-tares) of total      e are.                                                     normal activity and health cons.idering emoirosnta1 temperature, body
Pooaindensity - per susare k. of auric. land - Cmnpoted as above for                      weights, age and sen distributions of popsiution. sod allowing 102. for
agricolor1 land only                                                                         was te at household level.
Per capita   namely nf orstein  Uoraa'  oar day)l - Protein contts t of per
Vital utriutica                                                                                  capita net supply of food per day, net supl         f fcsd iu defined as
Crudebirthrats  er thusand- Annual live births Per thousand of mid-year                 above, reqirmns for all          . cutre  esablise      byES     Ecnm;
population. ten-year arithoetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970, and five-                   Research Services provide for a nininun alowasce of 60 grams of total
nar averagetendin inti  1970I for enot recen   estimate.                                     protein.per day, and 20 groan of animal and pulse Protein, of which
Crde doatb rater thuad- Annua            deaths per thousand of mid-yea                        10 gra    should he animal Protein; chess standards are lowr than
pnpolstlon   ten-year arihetit averages codisg is 1960 and 1970I -d                            those of 75 grama cf total Protein asd 23 g-an       of animal protein an
fiv-yea    averge ending is 1975 for .sos cr.eet esiste                                        naerage for the      -rald. Propoued by FAQ in the Third world Food
Inft morta=lity rate (Ith.sl - Annual doachs of infants under one year of                      lq""ey.
aoprthcu..snd lice birrbe                                                               Per capica Protein aapply from animal     an   pulse - Pr-ceio   -pply of
Lie  centany   t birtb lyrs) -Aveaecmer of years of life remaining                           fond derived from animals and pulses in irom       per day
atbrt,usaly fivo.-oa     avrais:ndtnf      is 1960.  97   an   91    uecth rats                    I/thou) auss 1-4A -   nnul deathu per thousand in age ir...p 1-4
d-crlcpisgo-n-ric                                                                              eas    to children in this age grouP,     _uggosted a    nidctr
irsorproductison rate - Average number of live dasghterua       woman   ill                  malnutr ition.
Chear inbr norma      reproductive persod if she eoprrlesc-      Present age-
specfic fertilitY rates, osually five-year avrsgs          nding in 196E,                   Educa.tion
1970, and 1971 fcr devlpn       cutisAdjusted enoletrto-pias                                                                         col-Enrollment of all ages a
Population   growth rate (1') - coral     Compoun.d annua  growth rtrsa of mId-                 percen tage of priar     scol-g        poultio,icue          hlrnae
year Ipoplation for 19E-hO.16h-dO and 1970-75.                                                6-lI years bt,adjusted.for differo,nt len,gths uf.primar        edutatipn,
Poolt _ngrwh rate (2) -rban - Computed like growth rate of total                          fo   onre       ihuiesleuato.crloo                       a    oed10
population, different definitions of urban areas may affect nompara-                          since some pspi1s are below or above the official school age.
bility of dta among    -otrien,                                                            Adjustedenrollment ratio - secondary       uchool -Cmse         ssoe
Urban population (2 of total) - gatue of orbun to tsotl popslation; diffe-                      scnayeutinrqrsatlstfryaCapuof apprhoved                               rmr
rent dfinitins ciurkus  mos ma  affet comparabilityofdata maong                    inst-ution, provides ge..ero1, vanatiosa.l or teac.her training
A.Countre.                                                                                     inst -Cidc.a-4y..-tructions for ippI1s of 17 tc 17 years of ale. corrasposdence
Ase  trucure(perast  - Cildrn (-14  car). working-ago (10-64 year),                corss     r     genralyi -ocded,
and retired (65 years ad ove r) aspercnt         gags of mid-year population.              Yersofscooing rovrided (firu            an   econd levels) - Total years of
Ac "eedny ratio - RatIo of pultio        under 15 and 65 and over to                      schoolIng   at secondary level. vctou           sturicnyh            atal
those of apges 15 throgh 64.                                                                  or coPletely    ocluded.            ct    .    ntcin.yb              .t.l
Economic dependenc:., ..y rati -_Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 asd ove                  Vaainlenolet                of secondary) - vnstional iJ-titotioms
tc the labor force in age group of 15-64 yea rs.                                              iselude technical, industrial or other programs which operate inde-
rosily Plannij,,- a ccetors    (comlative. thos) - Cumlative emeber of                          pendently or as depa-mests of secondary institutions
-cPt.r, 'of birth-control davices under auspices of national family                        Adult literacy rate     17. - Literate adults (able to readadwrt)a
plausiog pr     -r  ince inceptin.                                                            pretg       ofttlaut          ouainaed1yasund over.)
Fanily plsonin-un .eru     (% of married wmc)-Percentages of married                            Pretg        ftt1dl           ---i.gd1             er     o   vr
womnof child-bearing age (104          er) who use birth-control device...rn
to all married woe     in, sam  ago group.                                                EPersoma   per room (average) - Average somber of persau      per roo    in
E~~~~.Pl.ym.t                                                           ... ~~~~~~~~~~~~cupied conventional dwellings in urban areas, dwellings emclude son-
Total labor forte fth-uasd) - Economically active Persons, incloding                           -ccuPiedn dwellingsII  without Ipd waeter  (t) - Occupied conventional
armed forums and uneployed but encluding heuuowivu, students, etc.,                           dwligsi         trba  an  ua     ra   wtotisd          o    usd     ie
dL  iiiabi.aiuscutis                  r    o   omaal,water f-ciliti-eu                                             s percentage of all an..pied dseelisgs.
Lbr force_in agriculture    (2) - AgricoIlturra  lbor force (in faring,                    Access to electricity (% of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellingswt
Uforestry, hunting snd fishing) as percentage of total labor force,                            electricity in living qusrters as percent of total dwellings in urban
_nemloved   (2 of  labor force) - Unemployed are ususily defined as Persons                    andrsrrbaeas
who are able and.willing to take a Job,otfa jbit on             given day                   Ruraldwellings    -onected   toeetiiy         ()- Computed as above for
remained dont ofaJob, and seebing work for a spe ci fie-d minim        peyriod                mral dwellings only.            ecriit
not enc..eedng one week, may not be comparable between osmetries don to 
differestd dfinitions of unmployed and sorce of data, e.g., employ-                        Con,omPtLion
men fsfico  statintis , samPle surveys, compulsory uneployment insurance.                Radio  recivers   fpe  thou pop) - All typesa of rece.ivers for radio broad-
r e                d                    ~~~~~~~~~~casts to general public, per thousa -nd of Population; eacludes uslicensed
Income distributiorn - Percentagetofp pivate incom      (both in sash and kind)                 receivers in countries and is, years when registration of radio sts was
received b     ihet5,       ihs    202   porest 202., and poorest 40     of                   in effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mot
households,                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~countries abolished licensing.
Passenger,ear faer thou pee) - Passenger car. comprise at-r tars seating
Distribution   of.land   - anrhdip -Pe roestages of land owned by wealthiest                    ls   tha   eight Peraons; emeluden ambulances, hearaes and military
102. and ponreat 102 of land owers,                                                          vehicles.
Health and Nutriti__                                                                          ElctOal, publ .ican  private electicit     isn hPiowtt oursn per cap1ita;
population   per physician - Population divided by nuber of practicing                          generall base.d onpodcin         yaa    wihuk     llwnefr        ossi
pbyaiiass  ualifed frm a ndlos  schol at  niverity lvel,grids but allowing far importu and emports of electricity.
NewPrint (ka/nr par nap) - Per capita annal consomption in kilograms
estimated from dma~eatic production plus set imPorts of newsprint.



ASNEX I
Page 3 of 6
GREECE: ECONC9IlC DEVELOPIENT DATA
Average Annual  Growth Rate.
Actual                                     Projected                      1970     1973-     1974-     1975-
1970     1973     1974      1975          1976      1977     1978      1980           1973     1974      1975      1980
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(1974.100;billion drachse)-l'
Grosa Do-etic Product (a.p.)           470.3    590.7    575.2     608.4         643.3     672.7     708.5     790.6          7.9      -2.7      5.6       5.5
CGins from Terma of Trade               -1.8      -         -       _4.0          -3.9      -3.6      -3.8      -3.8
Gros Domeatic Income                   468.5    590.7    575.2     604.4          639.4    669.1     704.7     786.8          7.8.     -2.7       5.0      5.5
Exporte (g * afe)                       56.6     83.8     87.5      95.5          102.6    111.2     121.1     142.9         14.0       6.0      9.1       8.4
Iaports (g . of.)                     -110.0   -156.3   -144.8    _137.4        -144.0    -150.8    -159.2    -179.6         12.5      -8.0      -5.1      5.5
Re-nurce Balance                       -53.4    -72.5     _57.3    -41.9         -41.4     -39.7     -38.1    -36.7
Investment                             141.5    188.3     146.2    148.1          155.8    161.4     170.8     191.5         10.2     -28.8       1.3      5.3
Coneomption                            380.4    474.9     486.3    498.3          525.0    547.4     571.9     632.1          7.3       2.4      2.5       4.8
Do-e.tic Saving.                        93.3    115.8     88.9     106.1          114.4    121.7     132.7     154.9          7.6     -23.3      19.4      7.8
National Saving.                        106.6   135.0     106.9    121.9          129.0    135.0     144.9     165.8          8.2      21.9      14.0      6.4
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                               Share of CDP (fo) at 1974 price.
Agriculture                                      19.4      19.2     19.1           18.8     18.4      18.0      17.1
Industry                                         30.0     30.1      30.2          30.4      30.9      31.4      32.9
Service                                          50.6      50.6     50.7           50.7     50.7      50.6     49.9
C. PRICES   (1974.100)
Eport Price 2ndex-                      57.9     82.2     100.0    106.5          114.7    125.1     135.4     155.4          4.5      21.6      6.5       7.8
Inport Pcice Inde.2'                    52.8     80.0     100.0    110.9          118.9    129.2     139.2     159.6          5.3      25.0      10.9      7.5
Term. of Tra, Index2/                  108.1    102.7     100.0     96.0           96.4     96.8      97.2      97.4
GDP Deflator-                            63.5    77.5     100.0    112.5          123.8    134.9     147.0     174.7                   29.0      12.5      9.2
Average Exchange Rate ($1.OO.Dr..)      30.0     29.6      30.0     32.3
D. PUBLIC FINANCE                                 As per cent of GDP (mp)
Current Revenue                          18.5    18.2      18.1     20.3
Taa Revenue                              17.2    16.6      16.8     19.5
Current Eapenditures                     16.2    15.5      17.4     19.6
Defence Eapenditore-                     3.3      2.9      3.4       5.0
Covernment Saving.                       2.3      2.7      0.7       0.7
Capital Eapenditure.                     4.3      5.1       5.7      4.8
E. SELECTED INDICATORS                          1965-73        1975-80-/                 F. LABOR FORCE                            1961           1971-4/
Incremental Capita1/output Ratio               3.0            4.2                        Labor Force (n/n)                     3.86          3.39
Import Elasticity                              1.2            1.1                        Unemployment (m/n)                    0.22          0.11
Average National Savings Rate                 16.7           19.8                          CL of LF)                           5.7            3.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                24.2           24.5                        Employment (n/n)                      3.64           3.28
I.por-t/GDP                                   24.0           22.5                          7. .h.r of:
AgricuIture                      53.9          40.5
Industry                         19.1          25.6
Service.                         27.0          33.9
1/ Figures for 1965 obtained by applying growth rates obtained fr.. the old national income account. series
empressed in co-ntant 1958 prices. The nev series expre..ed in con.tant 1970 pricee is available only for 1970-75 and
conversion to 1974 ba.e for present pu.poaee aa arrived at by shifting the implicit GNP deflator to 1974.
2/ Bsed on Bank estitea of international price -mvements.
3/ For rea.ons expressed in footnote 1/ above, only e rough comparison can be mde between the two sets of social indicator value.
a/ Lor for.e data iL currently under major reviion due to inaccuracies di..overed in the 1971 census partitularly with regard
to the oocupa.tional structure. The.e figures, therefore, my nor be comparable to those reported recently liseehere.
EMENA Region
CPD Il-A
October 20, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1973      1974      1975       1976      1977      1980
A.  Constant 1974 Prices (Million $)
Food                                     869.8      585.4     602.5     590.1     592.3     678.2
Intermediate goods                       868.7      951.8     793.4     862.8    1004.9    1265.4
Petroleum and products                   1049.4     863.5     805.7     860.3     904.4    1083.2
Manufactured consumer goods              1128.8     941.3     999.0    1023-8     996.9    1155.8
Capital goof                            1337.8     1257.8    1174.0    1203.9    1253.5     1480.1
Other goodsS                               29.8      35.5      25.8       -         -          -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                    5038.5 "   4635.2    4400.4    4540.9    4752.0    5662.7
Non-factor services-                     582.5      539.6     505.8     602.4     633.5     750.5
Total goods and NFS                     5621.0     5174.8    4906.2    5143.3    5385.5    6413.2
B.  Price Indices (1974=100)
Food                                      87.0      100.0      88.0      99.0     109.0     126.9
Intermediate goods                        83.4      100.0     111.9     119.2     129.2     160.5
Petroleum and products                    39.4      100.0     109.2     118.3     128.5     159.1
Manufactured consumer goods                84.0     100.0     114.5     121.9     132.2      164.2
Capital goods                             87.0      100.0     117.2     124.8     153.3      168.1
Other goods                               80.0      100.0     132.0       -         -          -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                       80.0     100.0     110.8     118.5     128.7      159.1
Non-factor servicesd                       80.0     100.0     111.2     122.3     132.1      164.1
Total goods and NFS                        80.0     100.0     110.8     118.9     129.2      159.6
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Food                                     756.8      585.4     530.2     584.2     645.6     860.6
Intermediate goods                       724.5      951.8     865.5    1028.5    1298.2    2030.8
Petroleum and products                   413.5      863.5     840.5    1018.3    1162.6     1723.4
Manufactured consumer goods               948.2     941.3    1143.9    1248.0    1317.7     1897.9
Capital goo1y                            1163.9    1257.8    1462.5    1502.7    1696.0    2487.8
Other goodsV                               23.9      35.5      33.0       -         -          _
Total goods (c.i.f.)                    4030.8     4635.2    4875.7    5381.7    6120.2     9010.5
Non-factor services                       466.0     539.6     562.8     736.9     837.2     1232.2
Total goods and NFS                     4496.8     5174.8    5438.5    6118.6    6957.5   10242.8
j Obtained as a residual
2/  Total imports of goods, US$ 5038.5 million, is smaller than the sum of the components because of the
large differences in the movements of price indices
3/  Implicit import price index based on residual quantities
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
October 20, 1976



ANNEX I
P,Ip,e r) o1 f
EXPORT DETAIL
1973       1974        1975       1976       1977        1980
A. Constant 1974 Prices (Million $)
Tobacco                                   124.5      158.4       143.2      171.3      178.2       200.4
Food and beverage                         374.5      374.2       500.6      429.9      445.0       498.2
Textiles and yarns                        213.3      202.0       214.9      229.1      244.0       297.5
Mineral and ores                           88.8       103.1      167.7      199.6      207.6       238.8
Metals                                     58.8      102.0       152.6      164.4       176.4      223.4
Petroleum pi?ducts                        116.5      123.5        79.6       85.1       94.6       128.7
Other goods-/                             617.5      681.8       432.6      708.0      665.2       966.2
Total goods (f.o.b.)                     1593.9     1774.1      1751.2     1987.4     2011.0      2553.2
Non-factor servicesl/                    1615.3     1632.0      1819.6     1814.3     2088.9      2686.8
Total goods and NFS                      3209.3     3405.0      3570.8     3801.7     4099.9      5240.0
B. Price Indices (1974=100)
Tobacco                                    71.9       100.0      119.6      126.2      135.8       167.4
Food and beverage                          92.6      100.0        88.0       99.0      109.0       127.0
Textiles and yarns                         72.9      100.0       112.0      119.2      129.2       160.5
Mineral and ores                           82.3       100.0       80.0       87.0       99.0       138.0
Metals                                     59.8      100.0        80.0       87.0       99.0       138.0
Petroleum pi?ducts                         39.8      100.0       109.2      118.4      128.5       159.1
Other goods-                               80.4      100.0       166.8      126.0      158.5       187.4
Total goods (f.o.b.)                       77.2      100.0       111.9      119.2      129.2       160.5
Non-factor services2/                      87.8      100.0       101.3      117.7      121.0       149.5
Total goods and NFS                        82.2      100.0       106.5      114.7      125.1       155.4
C. Current Values (Million $)
Tobacco                                    88.3      158.4       160.4      216.2      241.9       335.5
Food and beverage                         346.8      374.2      493.4       425.6      485.0       632.1
Textiles and yarns                        155.5      202.0       240.7      273.0      315.2      477.5
Mineral and ores                           73.1      103.1       134.2      173.7      205.6       329.5
Metals                                     35.2      102.0       122.1      143.0      174.7       308.3
Petroleum products                         46.4      123.5        87.0      100.8      121.6       204.8
Other goods                               485.3      681.8       721.8      892.1     1054.1      1810.3
Total goods (f.o.b.)                     1230.5     1774.1      1959.6     2224.3     2598.2      4098.0
Non-factor services                      1407.6     1632.0      1843.3     2136.6     2529.1     4045.2
Total goods and NFS                      2638.1     3405.0      3802.9     4360.9     5127.3     8143.3
1/ Obtained as a residual
2/ Implicit export price index associated with residual quantities
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
October 20, 1976



bALANCE OF PAYIENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                  ANNEX I
(In Current USS Million)                                           Page 6 of 6
Actual                                                                Pro ettd
1972            1973         1974           1975               1976           1977          1979           1979           1980
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OP PAY!ENTS-
1. Eopocrt (good,  nd NFS                1839.6         2638.1        3405.0         3802.9            4360.9         5127.3         6020.3         7011.5        8143.2
2. Import. (good. and NF8)               2726.4         4496.8        5174.8         5438.5             6118.6        6957.5         7912.8         8999.3        10232.8
3. Re.ou.ce Balance                      -886.8         -1858.7      -1768.8        -1635.6           -1757.7        -1830.1        -1892.6        -1987.8        -2089.5
4. Totel net factor incoe        2        514.0           683.5        550.2          626.4              584.2         617.7          621.6          630.3          642.3
a.  Internet and profit. (net)        -56.3          -51.9         -95.1         -107.6            -187.8         -230.0         -294.0         -358.6         -425.3
b. Worker.' remittance.               575.3           735.4        645.3          734.0              772.0         847.7          915.6          988.9         1067.6
5. Net transfers                            -
6.  Balance on Current Acc.uot           -367.8        -1175.2       -1218.6        -1009.2            -1173.5       -1212.3        -1270.9        -1357.4        -1447.2
7.  Privote Cepliol Inflo.      3/        681.3          789.2         736.3          964.5             1137.4        1331.0         1530.7         1760.2         2024.3
a.  Direct foreign inreeueenl    4/   194.2           314.7        276.6          315.0              350.6         416.5          491.5          580.0          684.1
b. Depoeitt 3ebh Conasrcial Banks    149.3           120.6        103.4          182.2              256.8         307.0          365.0          435.0          518.0
c.  borruwlns.- of which              337.8           353.9        356.3          467.3              530.0         607.0          674.2          745.2          822.2
Supplier. credit (net)         198.2           161.4         125.4         230.5              290.0          365.0         420.0          490.0          560.0
0.  Public M.LT and Short-lrmn Capitol    315.2           418.0        486.6          635.2              596.0          586.3         584.7          569.5          637.9
a.  Short term credit-                259.0           314.8        368.6          429.1             410.0          471.3          500.8          474.2         442.6
P. Public MoLT loan.                   56.2           103.2        118.0          206.1              186.3          115.0          83.9           95.3           95.3
9. A&-rtieatiuns                         -157.3         -172.2        -176.2         -335.7            -449.0         -565.0         -685.0         -790.9         -909.1
10. Not capital tra.a.ct.ona               839.2          1035.0       1046.7         1264.0             12b4.4        1352.3         1430.4         1538.8         1653.1
11. Errore end o,is..sio-                  -29.7         -152.6         -59.3         -247.9
12. Change in re.erve                     -501.1          -12.4        -112.6           -6.9             -111.2        -140.0         -159.5         -181.4         -205.9
b. LOAN COMEITMENTS
1.  Total public MoLT loan.               106.7           95.0         180.1          357.9            PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT            1972       1973       1974       1975
.   1BRD                               23.5            15.0         30.0          110.0
b. EID                                  7.7            11.8          -             47.3             Public DO6D                   1339.9     1542.0     2031.1     2541.4
c. Other.-                             75.3            68.2         150.1         200.6             Iotore.t                        61.7       90.7      143.4      172.4
Aoortieation-                   110.7      175.2     187.2      269.6
2. Total public co  .rciol   oan          397.2           468.4        478.0          358.0             Total Debt Serrics             172.4      265.9      330.6      442.0
C.  PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT                      0ot.taoditn  Doc. 31. i975                                    Debt Servic  Ratio
(Disbursed Only)                       Amount              Percent                                      Debt Service/Emporta NFS       9.3       10.0        9.8       11.6
Debt SericeEaport. NFS I
1.  18RD                                   70.6               2.8                                         D     igran' c RemittaNceS     7.1        7.9        8.2        9.7
2. Other Multilaterol                      97.4                3.8
3. Go-er-ototo                            323.7               12.7                                      Term.
4. FPlancial l-ositi.ono                 1752.7               69.0                                        Intare*t on Total DO6D/
5. Suppliers Credit                       152.8                6.0                                           Total DO4D                  4.6        5.9        7.0        6.8
6. Others                                 144.2                5.7                                        Total Debt S-rvice/Totu1 DOD  12.9       17.2      16.3       17.4
TOTAL                              2541.4              100.0
IBRD DD0D                       32.7       48.7       60.5       70.6
IBRD D04D  . D 1. of Total DOD  2.4        3.1        3.0        2.8
IBRD Debt Service as E. of
Total Debt S_rrice              2.3       2.1        2.4        2.6
- boned on the bolu-ce of payoe-ta dota conpilod by the Central Bark of Greece using 1971 Smithsonian paritie, for
covrrtln purpose. bebt.een drachna and other curre-cte- for 1972-1975 data.
2,  -oclode net direot loorotnent income sod oat dividends.
3   Includes direct inroatne-t under L.. 2687/53, real estate inve-tment and other nrt private invesatent.
4.  Forelgn turren-y depoait. of Greek noti.oals abrood uith loc1 l corciol benk.
5,  inc ldes Ibare to privot corporotlon, ret nuppliers' credits end loan, to private banka.
v, borrocirga by the Central bnk of Greece and other public ageo-ie-.
-ocludes IMF funds.
LENA RtgiAon
CP I I-A
N-oebher 8, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
A.       STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of September 30, 1976)
US$ Million
Amount
Loan                                                      (Less
Number    Year   Borrower           Purpose            Cancellation)    Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                  71.6             -
711     1970   Hellenic State     Education               13.8            6.0
754     1971   Hellenic State     Irrigation              25.0           11.3
859     1972   Hellenic State     Education               23.5           22.8
991     1974   Hellenic State     Irrigation              30.0           30.0
1134     1975   Hellenic State     Education               45.0           45.0
1135     1975   NIBID              Industrial Finance      25.0           20.2
1165     1975   Hellenic State     Irrigation              40.0           40.0
12401/   1976   Hellenic State     Highway                 30.0           30.0
TOTAL                                     303.9         205.3
of which has been repaid                 21.0
Total now outstanding                     282.9
Amount sold                    13.9
of which has been repaid      2.3        11.6
Total now held by BankV/                  271.3
Total undisbursed                                       205.3
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of September 30, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor                             Type of Business      Loan    Equity    Total
1962   Aevol Industrial Company            Fertilizers           0.60      -       0.60
Organic Fertilizers, S.A.
1965   "Titan" Cement Company, S.A. I      Cement                1.00     0.50     1.50
1966   National Investment Bank for        Industrial             -       0.72     0.72
Industrial Development, S.A.        Finance
1966   General Cement Company, S.A.        Cement                3.50      -       3.50
1966   "Titan" Cement Company, S.A. II     Cement                -        0.03     0.03
1970   Aluminium de Grece, S. A.           Aluminium             3.50     5.10     8.60
Industielle et Commerciale I
1972   Aluminium de Grece, S. A.           Aluminium              -       0.05     0.05
Industielle et Commerciale II
1975   Hellenic Food Industries, S. A.*    Food Processing       1.00     0.13     1.13
Total Gross Commitments                                  9.60      6.53    16.13
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             7.19      5.72    12.91
Total commitments now held by IFC                  2.41      0.81     3.22
Total undisbursed                                   -         -        -
* A supplementary equity investment of $0.11 million was
approved September 3, 1976 but not yet recorded.



ANNEX II
Plage 3 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 711 - First Education Project; $13.8 million Loan of November 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977.
Three of the five project post secondary technical schools have been
completed and the remaining two will be during the first quarter of 1977.
Contracts for furniture and for about 40 percent of the educational equipment
have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining equipment is expected to be
completed during 1977. Despite delays in construction and procurement, the
higher technical education program has been offered since 1974, both in
temporary facilities and in the partially-finished project schools. At
present, about 9,000 students are enrolled in the program, or more than 45
percent above original design capacity.
Loan No. 754 - Groundwater Development Project (Irrigation); US$25 million
Loan of June 21, 1971; Effectiveness Date: November 15, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Implementation of this project began slowly due to delays in contract
awards, changes in design of the distribution network following consultants'
recommendations, and a protracted search for a satisfactory solution, found in
December 1973, to the question of farmers' contributions to the capital cost
of the project. The Government has proposed phasing the construction of the
permanent irrigation network through 1984. Drilling of the wells is 85 percent
completed and irrigation has started on about 8,000 ha of the 40,000 ha using
temporary facilities. The substantial cost overruns are being borne by the
Government.
Loan No. 859 - Second Education Project; $23.5 million Loan of October 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
Architectural designs for all project institutions are proceeding
satisfactorily. Procurement of equipment for existing schools has started and
some contracts have been awarded. The Education Project Unit in the Ministry
of Coordination and Planning is performing satisfactorily. However, due to
initial delays in proposing designs and bidding documents, project completion
is now expected only in 1980. These delays together with changes in educa-
tional and technical designs have led to cost increases about 70 percent above
the appraisal estimates, for which the Government is providing funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan No. 991 - Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project: $30.0 Million Loan
of June 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1980.
Because of political changes in Greece, there were delays in com-
pleting the conditions of effectiveness. Project implementation has however
begun and the review of the tertiary canal design standards has been com-
pleted. The first contract was awarded in September and construction has
begun. The Government has requested postponement of the Nestos sub-project
pending new discussions with the upstream riparian on use of the river waters.
The funds could be used for Yannitsa.
Loan No. 1134 - Third Education Project; $45 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
A Steering Committee has been established to guide and monitor the
three studies on post-secondary education, pedagogical training and production
of education included in the project. Consultants have been engaged for two
of the studies and candidates for the third study are being examined. The
Ministries of Education and Labor are organizing technical services for day-
to-day implementation of the physical aspects of the project. A key feature
of the project is the introduction of multilateral secondary education through
ten project schools. The Government is now in the process of passing the
legislative framework for even more ambitious reforms. Some delays have
resulted from having to reflect these encouraging developments, which do
not affect enrollments or costs, in the project school designs.
Loan No. 1135 - Fifth NIBID Project: $25 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments under this loan as of September 30, 1976 amounted to
$21.8 million.
Loan No. 1165 - The East Vermion Irrigation Project: $40.0 Million Loan
of October 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: August 12, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
-   Progress is satisfactory.    Tender documents are being prepared
and the first contract is expected to be let shortly. A Project Manager
and a steering committee have been appointed and are functioning. The
Government has requested postponing the feasibility studies for a future
project in the Xanthi Komotini area, which is under consideration by the
Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 1240 - Highway Project: $30.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31,-1980.
The terminal date for effectiveness of the loan was postponed to
December 31, 1976 at the request of the Government to allow time for Parlia-
mentary ratification of the Loan Agreement and establishment of the main-
tenance service and transport coordinating committee. Work is progressing
satisfactorily on advertisement, bidding and procurement at this early
stage of the project.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
GREECE - VOLOS AND SALONICA SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Hellenic State
Beneficiaries:       The Salonica Sewerage Authority and the Volos Water
and Sewerage Organization.
Amount:              US$36 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years including a 3-year grace period
with interest at 8.7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:     Same as those for the Bank loan.
Project              The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist
Description:        Greece in implementing the reorganization of the sewerage
sector through two priority investments in the Greater
Salonica and Volos Areas. The project includes:
(1) Salonica Component:
(a)  installation of about 65 km of secondary sewers,
17 km of trunk and force mains, and three pump-
ing stations, to serve the coastal areas and the
Lagadas and Esso industrial zones;
(b)  installation of about 8 km of gravity inter-
ceptors, 1 km of force mains, and three pumping
stations to intercept the trunk mains dis-
charging into Salonica Bay;
(c)  construction of about 25 km of main interceptor
between White Tower and the Axios River;
(d)  construction of a primary treatment plant
with an initial capacity of 3.9 m3/second; and
(e)  purchase of equipment for sewer inspection and
maintenance.
(2) Volos Component:
(a) installation of about 113 km of secondary
sewers, 18 km of trunk and force mains and
six pumping stations;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
(b)  construction of a pre-treatment plant with
an initial capacity of 0.44 m3/second;
(c)  installation of a collector of about 4 km
to carry wastewater from the industrial
estate to the pre-treatment plant; and
(d)  construction of about 8 km final interceptor
and about 0.7 km ocean outfall to discharge
the pre-treated wastewater into the Thermaikos
Gulf.
(3) Studies and Training:
(a)  feasibility studies for the Mega Emvolon
sewerage system in the Greater Salonica Area
to serve the southeastern part of the Salonica
metropolitan area;
(b)  industrial wastewater surveys in the Greater
Salonica and Greater Volos Areas to establish
appropriate policies, procedures, controls
and tariffs for industrial wastewaters;
(c)  oceanographic studies of the Thermaikos and
Pagasitikos Gulfs to:
(i) allow monitoring of the receiving waters
once the proposed sewerage project enter
operation; and
(ii)  establish a mathematical model to forecast
the cost of treatment for different types
of industrial developments and various
criteria of water quality;
(d)  studies relating to the Salonica Water Authority,
the Salonica Sewerage Authority and the Volos
Water and Sewerage Organization to (i) review
their systems of accounting and financial
control with a view to the implementation of
systems more appropriate to the operations of
semi-autonomous water and sewerage authorities
and (ii) review their tariff structures;
(e) training of senior staff of the Ministries of
Interior and Public Works.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign     Total
Salonica
Civil Works                                 27.6        7.0       34.6
Equipment                                    -0-        8.3        8.3
Land                                         1.7         -         1.7
Engineering and Administration               3.1        2.1        5.2
Sub-Total                              32.4      17.4        49.8
Volos
Civil Works                                  9.7        1.9       11.6
Equipment                                    -0-        1.1        1.1
Land                                         0.3         -         0.3
Engineering and Administration               0.9        0.6        1.5
Sub-Total                              10.9       3.6        14.5
Studies and Training                              0.4        0.3        0.7
Basic Project Cost                          43.7       21.3       65.0
Physical Contingencies                             4.4       2.5        6.9
Price Contingencies                               29.4      12.2       41.6
Grand Total                            77.5       36.0      113.5
Financing Plan:
Amount
US$ (Mlillion)       %
Salonica
Internal Cash Generation and Other                14.9          17.0
Borrowings
IBRD Loan                                   29.5           33.6
Government Loan                             43.3           49.4
Total                                  87.7          100.0
Volos
Internal Cash Generation                           2.9          11.6
BQ.rrowings
IBRD Loan                                    6.1           24.6
Government Loan                               7.9          31.9
Government Equity                                  7.9          31.9
Total                                  24.8          100.0
Studies and Training
IBRD Loan                                         0.4           40.0
Government                                         0.6          60.0
Total                                   1.0          100.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Estimated
Disbursements:            FY77     FY78     FY79      FY80     FY81     FY82
Annual         0.1       1.7      4.0        7.7     11.8     10.7
Cumulative      0.1      1.8      5.8      13.5      25.3     36.0
Procurement          Equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more
Arrangements:       than US$200,000, and civil works contracts estimated to
cost more than US$500,000, will be procured after interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's guidelines. Bidders will be prequalified.
Domestic manufacturers of equipment will be given a margin
of preference of 15 percent or customs duties, whichever
is lower. Other equipment and civil works contracts will
be awarded on the basis of the procedures of the Ministry
of Public Works, which involve competitive bidding adver-
tised locally but open to foreign firms and are acceptable.
Contracts will be grouped to the extent practicable after
consultation with the Bank. Minor works, such as service
connections and rehabilitation or replacement of secondary
sewers, may be carried out by SSA and/or VWSO under
arrangements acceptable to the Bank, up to an accumulated
value of US$1.0 million. Consultants will be selected
following Bank guidelines and employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. Retroactive financing
of up to US$100,000 is provided for expenditures after
June 30, 1976 for necessary oceanographic studies and to
enable final designs to be started.
Technical            About 220 man-months of consultants services are provided
Assistance          under the project to carry out the various studies.   An
(Consultants):     additional 1,200 man-months, including 250 man-months
for foreign consultants are provided for final design
and supervision of construction of the two components.
IOKAE has been selected for the oceanographic study,
and the consultants for final design are expected to
be selected shortly.
Rate of Return:      The benefits are not sufficiently quantifiable to cal-
culate a rate of return.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:    December 31, 1981
Appraisal Report:    "Appraisal of the Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project,
Greece", No. 1224-GR, dated November 12, 1976.






22052~  /.;22 5B*2
-1E
W  , < t      X              X             ,       o       A       /          .  8/ :00  45
73924'                          30
\ g ~~~~~~~~-                             \X I                         V       7 S                   POSE S EWEKG SHMEknr
Jf \\ Sl/\>   lv<oov   g  ZbeeaFeWb  AnS EPon
/ ~  ~~~~~~~~ \I>                                         I A>   \         -A          5" /  0005.lt  \s5e2dtFGAIYSWR
0 00-000000000 -  . -                                                            On Me| -TO
21 -!' 0'                                                                  . ,--- rvtraX-X,oONOR NMTR 
W_ ~         ~         A
\  .,  "_  ,  r7   r          0> Out             8UILT-UP ARGREECE'
PROPOSED* SEWERAGE SCHEME
AIykes            VOLOS
100                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LotSTAGE
ZNI&NN2nd. STAGE      913-
3rd STAGE
.       ,0Ej  -X  -                    r .     )',                       '               O       5020 
'I                              0~~~~~~                                                ----- VORDS MAINSPMIG TTO
. -  -                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCAL PUMPING STATIONS
'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~TREATMENT PLANT AND EFFLUENT
PUMPING STATION
E E E.L
MAIN ROADS
i-  --I  RAILROADS
S_                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Angistro C.pe
ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~39- 38500*
arot       ernn                                                                        .-_ SC)@  j  IX)NTO9ONOURS IN METERS
------ I~U  SBUILT-UP AREAS
7'.                     Qoen  DOtfo1l
L                             - - - - - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
0   BOG    1500    2500
k ~~~~~~~~II 
Owo000o.0.0000~~~~~~0~  0 ~ ~ 2550                     2258'






AXIOSj                     GALLICOS !@ SS\r.X
| INDUSTRIAL                  INDUSTRIAIL                 1 t   -J  NDUSTRIAL  < I T t /r r 
ISI t   ;   C A S T H   /  \   \D, osC    N R AI             < *     U     0
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 t                                                   ' /\\TWRA \|$
|7 /   !  /t            r;P_-- -R/1Y 1CA-- H-9
ASIOS                      GALUCOS -- r                                 t-r.r) r{E-A             O /  I
INDUSTRIAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C TA
Z O NE  IaP he;                      /                                             L  ' EuKAIWE
/ ~~  /9  CALOHOFI~~ H                         VT-0 / 
af L#u)5LSi 5,l _ a |-> S ~~~~~~G R E E C E '';' 
4E3Ntrxl -r s;tO~~~~~. 1l) .' ~PROPOSED SEWERAGE SCHEME!
. - .  THESSALON ICA                            H
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M11 luIg|s STAGE
|   |  2nd STAGE                                            \
. .   |                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN COLLECTOR
_         .   |                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COASTAL INTERCEPTORS
_ 7         - LIMITS OF STUDY AREA 2015
. | ~~~~~~~~~LIMITS OF STUDY    AREA  1990
. . 1 ..... . ,ni - 3~~~~~~UILT-UP- AREAS
2329   22-   '  "'  1   ~~~~35'            a    CONTDURS IN METERS 
Ie    21rI  ITE
-.  r>    EIEJNA                                                 tA   TRIAIAS _  -
I I   1 r g L DZ7 ! );   T   ,        ;    ,   .            -CH O S S  - NSCE O N   R IS S IO N
LPOPSE             SE WERAE    S
I                                     2nd3TAG
35  .       -~~~~~KLO  ETER  JN               .4   OTOR  NMTR
25  W  sr  2R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HELLENIC STATE FOR THE SALONICA AND VOLOS SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hellenic State for the equivalent of US$36 million, to finance the
foreign exchange cost of a sewerage project. The loan would have a term of 15
years including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.7 percent per annum. The
equivalent of $29.5 million and $6.1 million would be provided, respectively,
to the Salonica Sewerage Authority and to the Volos Water and Sewerage Organi-
zation on the same terms as the Bank Loan. The remaining $0.4 million will be
used for related studies and training.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum - Greece" dated
September 30, 1976 was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 12,
1976 and its conclusions are summarized below. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        Following the Cyprus crisis in July 1974, the seven-year old mili-
tary regime was replaced by an interim civilian Government. In November 1974,
an elected Government, backed by a large parliamentary majority, was estab-
lished. In December 1974, the Greek people voted to establish a republic. A
new constitution establishing a parliamentary system with a strong presidency
was approved in June 1975. The new Government has been concerned with the
re-establishment of democracy. On economic issues, it is addressing the need
to restore and broaden international economic relations, especially with
the EEC. It has taken measures to revive economic activity, reduce price
inflation, and correct a growing balance of payments deficit. Substantive
negotiations with the EEC are expected to begin early next year for accession
to full membership.
4.        Throughout the 1960's and up to 1972, the Greek economy enjoyed
rapid GDP growth averaging 7.9 percent per year in real terms, and relatively
stable prices. However, by the end of 1972, as the economy reached full
employment, supply constraints began to develop and domestic prices came under
increasing inflationary pressure which was reinforced by the termination of
price controls in 1973, increases in import prices (particularly petroleum
after October 1973), higher agricultural support prices and increased Govern-
ment expenditures. Consumer prices, which had increased by less than 3
percent per annum on average during 1968-72, rose 16 percent in 1973 and 27
percent in 1974. The restrictive policies that the Government adopted to
combat inflation and the worldwide recession, together with the impact of
the Cyprus crisis and domestic political uncertainties, severely affected
economic growth, causing a decline of 2.7 percent in the GDP (at market
prices) in 1974.
Thb document hu a rstricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their ofilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed withut World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Economic performance in 1975, however, was much better.    Preliminary
estimates indicate that real GDP (at market prices) increased by 5.6 percent.
Agricultural output increased by 3.0 percent, industrial output by 4.3 percent,
and output of services by a moderate 3.7 percent. The revival of economic
activity picked up momentum towards the end of 1975 and has continued through
early 1976 and was led by a recovery in demand, particularly in consump-
tion, both public and private. Economic growth was accompanied by a signifi-
cant decline in the rate of inflation estimated at 14 percent in 1975, only
half the rate in 1974.
6.        As the signs of economic recovery began to emerge and the inflation
seemed to be abating, the Government adopted an expansionary policy whose
major elements were: (a) a liberal incomes policy which permitted increases
in wages including those of public sector employees; (b) an expansionary
fiscal policy which significantly strengthened aggregate demand through
public expenditure; (c) an exchange rate policy involving the devaluation of
the drachma; and (d) an accommodating monetary policy which ensured enough
liquidity in the economy to permit the growth in output that occurred in 1975.
The authorities nevertheless remain acutely aware of the competing policy
prescriptions that inevitably emanate from the priorities of economic manage-
ment, viz. growth, controlling inflation and limiting the deficit in the
balance of payments.
7.        Agriculture and industry are the key economic sectors.    Agriculture
still accounts for about 19 percent of GDP, 35 percent of employment and
37 percent of exports: Growth continues to be hampered by the small size
and fragmented nature of farm holdings, insufficient development of irrigation
and inadequate extension services. Industry, including construction, has been
the most dynamic sector, with an average annual growth of nearly 10 percent in
real terms since 1960, and its share in GDP increased from nearly 26 percent
in 1965 to 30 percent in 1975. The share of manufactured goods in total
exports nearly doubled, from 25 percent in 1968 to 48 percent in 1975. Despite
rising productivity, Greek industrial growth is still restricted by a small
domestic market, limited export orientation, inappropriate plant size and
heavy dependence on capital goods imports. The Government's policy for indus-
trial investment has been influenced significantly by these considerations,
especially by the need for better export performance and to face competition
from European manufacturers following entry into the European Economic Com-
munity (EEC). In pursuit of this policy, the Government is encouraging
industries which may have a competitive edge and are preferably based on
indigenous resources. The Government is keen to develop the mining sector,
especially energy-related subsectors such as oil and lignite, in view of its
foreign exchange earning or saving potential.
8.        The balance of payments showed a slight improvement in 1975 with a
current account deficit of $1.0 billion compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
The improvement occurred because of substantial gains in invisible earnings,
a 10 percent increase in exports and a marginal increase in import value. The



- 3 -
volume of imports actually declined due to the low level of economic activity
and considerable destocking of inventories. Exchange rate policy seems to
have contributed significantly to the improvement of the balance of payments.
From mid-year to late 1975, the drachma was adjusted downwards against major
currencies amounting to a depreciation of 22 percent, which restored, at
least in part, the loss in competitiveness of Greek exports due to the infla-
tion in 1974. Tourism earnings increased significantly, workers remittances
also showed a strong upturn and revenues from shipping remained at a fairly
high level. Total net invisible receipts were $1.9 billion and provided a
major offset to the negative trade balance of $2.9 billion.
9.        Greece's balance of payments has shown persistent deficits over
many years, which have risen sharply since 1973. This imbalance reflects a
high degree of dependence on imports of capital goods and machinery to sup-
port development activities and a high income elasticity of import demand for
consumer goods. The production structure of the economy has not been ade-
quately geared to meet the rising demand for sophisticated capital equipment
and certain kinds of high quality consumer goods. Export expansion, while
significant, has not been sufficient to cover the rising import bill. Heavy
capital inflows have, therefore, been needed to cover the large deficits on
the current account as well as to provide for debt servicing, movements in
reserves and related items. According to official estimates, total capital
inflows in 1975 were $1,600 million; of this amount, $965 million were on
private account, and $635 million on Government account, all borrowed largely
on commercial terms due to limited access to long-term capital markets.
Greece continues to face difficulties in obtaining long-term capital and the
need to borrow abroad on commercial terms has added to the balance of payments
problems through the increased debt burden.
Prospects
10.       The prospects in 1976 are for GDP to grow by 5 percent based on
sustained output increases in manufacturing and services.    W4hile the pace of
revival in private investment activity remains a concern, growth in aggregate
demand would be sufficient to lead to 5 percent growth provided there is a
reasonable degree of price stability. It is expected that the rate of price
increase may well be held around 10 percent provided: the Government is
successful in containing wage increases to moderate levels, sufficient imports
are available to supplement domestic supplies of a broad range of products and
existing controls on monetary expansion continue. The current account deficit
is likely to increase to $1.2 billion compared to $1.0 billion last year.
This is based on a projected growth of 15 percent in exports and 12 percent in
imports. Imports of capital goods and raw materials are particularly volatile,
and if private investment activity picks up, imports may increase faster than
anticipated, leading to a higher current account deficit. The Government will
need to borrow nearly at the same level as in the last year, again mostly from
commercial sources.



-4-
11.       Assistance from the EEC over the next five years is expected to be
at a rate of $65-70 million a year after a new financial protocol is finalized
with the European Investment Bank (EIB), perhaps by early next year. Over the
long term, Greece stands to gain significantly from full membership in the EEC
mainly by hastening changes in its economy towards a more developed and effi-
cient production structure. A net financial inflow of about $360 million a
year is expected after full membership outside the new financial protocol
with the EIB, mostly for agriculture and regional development. In the
interim, significant infrastructure investment will have to be undertaken to
conform with European standards, and there will be considerable problems of
adaptation largely due to the structural differences between the economy of
Greece and those of the EEC. Besides, the administrative requirements of
implementing European policies and directives, such as the Common Agricultural
Policy (CAP), are likely to be considerable. The benefits, however, may in-
clude greater inflow of foreign investment and technology and more efficient
management. Membership is expected to bring greater rationalization and
hence competitiveness of production and export activities, and may help the
Government overcome institutional rigidities in enacting and implementing
far-reaching socio-economic reforms which otherwise would be difficult to
undertake.
12.       The Bank's assessment indicates that GDP growth of about 5.5 percent
is likely in the medium-term, but the problems of inflation and the balance of
payments are major constraints on future growth. The current account deficit
is expected to increase somewhat from $1.0 billion in 1975 to about $1.4
billion in 1980. To finance this deficit and to allow for increased amortiza-
tion payments and improvements in reserves, the Government will have to borrow
annually, at roughly the same level as in 1975. However, in view of Greece's
limited access to long term concessionary finance, the Government will need to
continue to borrow on commercial terms.
13.       Public external debt outstanding (including undisbursed) at the end
of 1975 amounted to $2.96 billion compared to $2.7 billion at the end of 1974.
Debt service payments in 1975 reached $442 million (of which $11.3 million was
for World Bank loans), and represented 9.7 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services and workers' remittances. Based on reasonable expectations
regarding export growth and future borrowing, the debt service ratio would be
about 11 percent by 1980. About 2.6 percent of total service payments would
be due to the Bank. In view of the good prospects for future economic growth,
even if at a lower rate than in the past, Greece remains creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
14.       Bank lending to Greece started in 1968, after disputes in connec-
tion with the country's pre-war external debt had been substantially settled.
Greece has received twelve loans totalling $303.9 million (net of cancella-
tions), of which $271.3 million was held by the Bank as of September 30, 1976.
These include five loans totalling $96.6 million to the National Investment



-5-
Bank for Industrial Development (NIBID), three loans for education ($82.3
million), three loans for irrigation ($95 million) and a highway loan ($30
million). The execution of Bank-financed projects has generally been satis-
factory, although slow and subject to significant cost overruns due to both
domestic and international inflationary pressures. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1976.
15.       Bank assistance to Greece has the following objectives:    supporting
institutional reform and essential infrastructure in key sectors, including
irrigation, sewerage and wastewater disposal, and highways; modernizing key
sectors such as agriculture and education; and reducing regional income and
social disparities through support for selected regional or rural develop-
ment programs. A project for the development of one of Greece's rural pro-
vinces and a fruit and vegetable export project, both stressing institutional
objectives, are under preparation as is fourth education project, designed
to support new reforms initiated by the Government as well as to consolidate
those begun in connection with earlier projects.
16.       Although Greece has a much higher average per capita income than
that enjoyed by most other developing countries, continued Bank lending for
a limited time is justified in view of the following considerations. First,
given the magnitude of its external capital requirements, it will be difficult
for Greece to meet its borrowing needs for development on reasonable terms
entirely from market sources. Continued Bank lending will not only provide
some modest direct concessionary assistance, but also facilitate Greece's
access to capital markets. Second, Greece still has large pockets of poverty
and serious regional imbalances in incomes and development, and needs assist-
ance in modernizing some of its key sectors. Third, the country is poorly
equipped institutionally and administratively to take full advantage of its
impending membership in the European Economic Community as well as to develop
key sectors like agriculture. The Government particularly wishes the Bank to
help strengthen selected institutions, for which the Bank is probably the only
available source of external funds, to meet these challenges. It is, however,
anticipated that Greece will be able to finance its development program
without resort to Bank funds within a few years.
17.       IFC has made investments totalling $16.1 million in six Greek com-
panies. An equity and loan investment of $0.6 million was made in a fertili-
zer factory in 1962 and sold in 1970. An equity investment of $0.7 million
was made in NIBID in 1965 and reduced to $0.1 million in 1974. Loan and
equity investments totalling $8.7 million were made in an aluminium company in
1970 and 1972. In early 1975, IFC invested $1.1 million in an agro-industry
project in Larisa for processing of tomatoes from the area of the Groundwater
Development Project assisted by the Bank (Loan 754-GR). IFC recently contri-
buted another $0.1 million to expansion of this project to include the growing
and harvesting of tomatoes as well as the canning of apricots and peaches.
Other operations are under consideration.



- 6 -
PART III - THE SEWERAGE SUB-SECTOR
Introduction
18.       The sewerage sub-sector in Greece has failed to keep pace with
the requirements of rapid urbanization and industrialization. It faces
problems in three major areas: inadequate technical standards and pollution
control policies, weak local and national institutions, and unsatisfactory
financial policies and practices. Sewer system construction is based upon
outmoded technical standards and is undertaken with scant regard to economic
criteria. The operation of sewer systems is not related to the quality
requirements of receiving waters and controls over industrial wastewater
discharges do not exist. National institutions do not as yet have the capacity
for developing appropriate policies and providing leadership to the sub-sector,
while local institutions are weak and often fragmented, with a number of
municipal authorities servicing an urban area when a single system is needed.
Financial policies are inappropriate for securing the resources needed for the
sector, and beneficiaries are not bearing a reasonable share of costs. There
is thus a pressing need to develop the needed policies, institutions and
skills at both the national and local levels. The Government is aware of the
shortcomings of its institutions in the sewerage field and has requested
assistance not only from the Bank but also from UNDP and WHO. WHO has already
conducted a preliminary study of the institutional aspects of the establishment
of a national environmental protection agency. UNDP has offered financial
assistance for the feasibility studies of the Athens sewerage system and WHO
has been assisting in selecting consultants for this work.
Background
19.       Intensive urbanization (4 percent p.a.), rapid industrial growth
(10 percent p.a.) and uncontrolled discharge of industrial liquid wastes have
caused severe pollution of rivers and coastal waters, with attendant adverse
effects on fisheries, recreation, tourism and public health -- fragmentary
evidence suggests the incidence of waterborne disease in the heavily polluted
urban areas is much higher than for the country as a whole. Most Greek cities
are located on the coast and depend on simple sewer systems discharging at the
shore into surface waters. Only parts of Athens and Salonica have integrated
networks discharging through submarine outfalls, but without treatment. In-
land communities depend mainly on septic tanks and percolation pits and only
recently have started construction of sewer systems, which usually discharge
without treatment into the nearest body of water. Although new facilities are
being built with separate waste and storm water sewers, most of the existing
facilities are combined, increasing the health hazard. Sea water pollution in
Greek coastal waters also contributes to the larger Mediterranean pollution
problem. Greece is one of the governments in the region which have committed
themselves to address this problem under the recent Barcelona agreement.
20.       Major sewer projects are prepared by the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW), usually with the assistance of private consultants. They are approved



- 7 -
on their technical merits by MPW's Hydraulic Division, which has only a small
technical staff. Designs are governed by outdated specifications and proce-
dures, and neither financial nor organizational analysis is presently under-
taken. As a result, systems are over-designed, phased construction is not
used, and the absorptive capacities of the receiving waters and water quality
requirements are ignored. However, the quality of construction, which is
carried out by private contractors supervised by the regional offices of MPW,
is generally good.
21.       Water supply and sewer systems have traditionally been operated
by the municipalities under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Inte-
rior (MI). However, urban development crossing municipal boundaries has
already led in Athens and Salonica to the creation of regional water and
sewerage authorities, and regionalization is being considered in other urban
areas. Systems are presently financed by government grants, loans and local
revenues and taxes. Following construction with government funds, major works
are presently handed over to the local authorities without provision for
repayment. Sewerage tariffs are not generally set in relation to costs; but
often as a fixed proportion of water tariffs. In some cities, taxes collected
on the rental values of property have been assigned to sewerage construction.
Present revenues are too low to finance the required investments in sewerage
systems. Both the technical and financial policy frameworks are as yet
unsuitable for autonomous operations, and the existing regional authorities
are presently subject to detailed control of all aspects of their operations.
They also lack the technical and financial expertise to be more independent,
and accounting and financial control systems suitable for semi-autonomous
organizations need to be developed.
22.       Salonica.   Greater Salonica, the location of the largest project
component, is the second largest city of Greece with a population of about
700,000, the effective capital of northern Greece and a natural gateway to
the Balkans and Central Europe (Map 12213). The metropolitan area includes
22 townships and extends for about 60 km along the shores of Salonica Bay.
Three industrial zones are located northwest of the city, and a fourth is
under development. The downtown area of the city was sewered during the
1930's with a combined network discharging to the inner Salonica Bay through
a submarine outfall. This system has been gradually extended but is now in-
adequate. Because of discharges of raw sewage into the surface waters, there
have been frequent fish kills. A high incidence of water-borne disease has
forced the closing of several beaches and the prohibition of fishing.
23.       Topography dictates that the   greater Salonica area be sewered
eventually by two systems. The Axios system will serve the city, the poorer
suburbs which presently are not sewered, and all three existing industrial
zones. This system includes the structures needed to intercept and treat the
sewage, followed by discharge of the effluent into the Axios river. The Mega
Emvolon system, which is proposed to be built at a later stage, will serve the
southeastern sector of the metropolitan area, and discharge into the Thermaikos
Gulf.



- 8 -
24.       The Salonica Sewerage Authority (SSA), a regional authority under
MPW, will operate the project facilities. It began operations in January
1976 and presently serves six municipalities and 13 townships. SSA is con-
trolled by a Board of five members plus a chairman, who are appointed by
various Government departments and the Salonica municipality. The day-
to-day operations are supervised by a Director-General reporting to the Board.
The authority is expected to be fully staffed with about 135 administrative,
professional and technical staff and about 130 manual workers by the end of
1976. Among the key staff, only a Financial Director remains to be
appointed. The law establishing SSA sets out its duties and responsibilities
in considerable detail, with most decisions of any importance subject to ap-
proval by various government departments, principally MPW. Sewerage charges
are collected by the separate Salonica Water Authority for SSA, and the
present computerized billing system is satisfactory.
25.       Volos.  Volos, other project city, is also located on a bay, on the
eastern coast of central Greece (Map 12212R). Although it has a population
of less than 100,000 inhabitants, it is the fourth largest city in Greece, and
provides a typical example of the sewerage problems faced by smaller cities.
Less than 10 percent of the existing population is served by sewers, the rest
relying on septic tanks. Present contamination is modest, but a new indus-
trial estate and the growing population pose dangers for the future. The long-
range sewer program provides for the expansion of the sewer system to serve
the metropolitan area and adjacent industrial estate. It will include facili-
ties for collection, pretreatment and disposal into the Pagasitikos Gulf. The
Greater Volos area is presently served by several water and sewerage authori-
ties, of which the principal one is the reasonably well operated Volos Municipal
Water and Sewerage Authority (VMWSA). In order to operate the project facili-
ties, the Government has prepared draft legislation to create a regional water
and sewerage authority covering the greater Volos area based upon the present
municipal authority.
26.       Sectoral Reform.   The principal reforms required in the organization
and management of the sewerage sector are threefold: first, the present
national authorities responsible for the sewerage subsector need strengthening
to enable them to develop and implement appropriate policies; second, the
present fragmented local authorities need to be strengthened with adequately
trained staff and a better policy framework and, where appropriate, combined
into regional authorities; and third, there is need for better coordination of
water supply and sewerage development. In Athens and Salonica, the Government
at first opted for separate regional authorities for water supply and for
sewerage, under the administrative supervision of MPW, but it now favors the
merger of water supply and sewerage under combined authorities for each urban
area. For the smaller cities, the government proposes to create new semi-
autonomous authorities under the administrative supervision of MI, since the
latter is more familiar with the problems of municipal administration and has
the appropriate expertise in administrative matters. Technical assistance to
these authorities for major projects and policy guidance on technical matters
will, however, be MPW's responsibility.



- 9 -
27.       National Water and Wastewater Authorities.    The technical focus of
the sewerage sub-sector is thus the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) where struc-
tural and essential procedural improvements will be undertaken. MPW intends
to expand the present small technical sewerage unit within its Hydraulics
Division's Water and Wastewater Directorate into a Wastewater Department with
additional staff and responsibilities. The Directorate will also include a
new Project Appraisal Department. MPW is expected to move away from its
present detailed involvement in specific projects toward providing general
policy guidance to the sub-sector and technical assistance on specific
problems (e.g. wastewater disposal) to the regional and local authorities.
28.       The Watewater Department will specifically be responsible for
issuing and maintaining up-to-date guidelines and specifications for design
and construction of sewerage systems; reviewing and approving feasibility
studies and designs of major sewerage projects and all treatment and disposal
facilities; preparing draft regulations on water quality criteria and indus-
trial wastewater discharges; providing technical assistance, guidance and
training to sewerage authorities; establishing, with the Institute of Oceano-
graphic and Fishing Research (IOKAE), the program for oceanographic work in
the sector; and advising on water pollution aspects of industriaL investments.
The Project Appraisal Department will review proposals for major sectoral
investments and advise on their financial, economic and operational feasi-
bility; advise on costs of pollution control regulations and provide guidance
on financial policies, accounting procedures and tariffs. The last function
will also be provided by the Ministry of Interior (MI) for the authorities
under its jurisdiction and both MPW and MI staff will be trained accordingly.
The Loan Agreement sets out the broad features of these arrangements and pro-
vides that before June 30, 1977, the Government will provide the Bank with its
specific proposals for staffing and training in the expanded MPW Directorate
and for the training of the relevant MI staff (Section 3.06 and Schedule 5).
The MPW Directorate is intended to be fully staffed by June 30, 1978.
29.       Regional Authorities.   As a complement to the above developments,
more independent municipal water and sewerage authorities are expected to be
established with broader powers than present municipalities and municipal
enterprises and with regional jurisdiction where this is appropriate. These
authorities will be given increased technical and financial capability so as
ultimately to construct and operate their own water and sewerage systems.
The project specifically provides for development of technical expertise
in the two project authorities through training by MPW in the supervision of
construction (see paragraph 46 below).
30.       As a first step, which is also needed for operation of the project
facilities, the Government is in the process of extending the geographical
jurisdiction of SSA and plans to pass legislation to modernize its tariff
powers to base future tariffs on costs, and, in addition, plans to pass
legislation to establish a regional Volos Water and Sewerage Organization
(VWSO) also with appropriate tariff powers. VWSO will serve the area, larger
than the project area, lying within the administrative boundaries of the
Municipalities of Volos and Nea Ionia and the Commune of Dimini including its
industrial estate (Map 12212R). The Loan Agreement makes enactment of appro-
priate legislation for at least one city a condition of effectiveness of the
loan; the enactment of legislation for the other city by June 30, 1978 would
be a condition of disbursement for that component (see also paragraph 56,



- 10 -
Loan Agreement Section 6.01(b) and Schedule 1). The Government plans to use
the VWSO law to establish a legal framework for semi-autonomous water and
sewerage organizations which can be extended to other cities in Greece. The
law is considered a model for other cities and contains a specific provision
that organizations following its framework may be established by decree for
other cities without Parliament having to pass a law in each case. The draft
legislation, incorporating the Bank's suggestions, has been reviewed by the
Ministries and municipalities concerned and is expected to be presented to
Parliament shortly.
31.       To ensure adequate staffing for the two authorities, the Loan Agree-
ment provides that SSA will be staffed with qualified personnel, including an
experienced financial director, the only key position not yet filled, and that
VWSO will appoint a competent general manager within six months of its estab-
lishment and will otherwise be adequately staffed (Loan Agreement Section 3.03).
To provide for a better coordination of water supply and sewerage development,
a merger of SSA and the Salonica Water Authority (SWA) is envisaged. To
prepare for this, the accounting study and improvements under the project
(paragraph 32 below) will also cover the SWA. In addition, the Loan Agreement
provides that no merger will take place until completion of the studies and
then only on satisfactory terms and conditions (Loan Agreement Section 4.06).
32.       Financial Policies and Practices.    The introduction of sounder
financial policies and practices in the water and sewerage sub-sector is
needed to ensure adequate resources for the sector and better management of
them. The primary means of achieving this will be through the development of
authorities which earn adequate financial returns and are able to contribute
towards their own expansion. Existing accounting methods, financial controls
and tariff structures will be reviewed by consultants provided under the
project and specific proposals developed for the establishment of appro-
priate improved systems. The Loan Agreement provides that promptly following
review of the studies' recommendations, changes satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank will be introduced in all three authorities with the assistance
of consultants acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 4.03(c)). To
move towards self-financing regional authorities, the Government proposes to
introduce a policy of repayment for Government funds provided for construc-
tion, together with a cost-based tariff policy providing revenues sufficient
to meet expenses and a reasonable contribution towards future investments.
To ensure a smooth introduction of the new system, phased increases in tariffs
are envisaged.
33.       For SSA in Salonica, the Loan Agreement provides that promptly after
entering into the Salonica Agreement with the Government, SSA will set sewerage
tariffs so that total revenues from operations will be sufficient to cover all
expenses plus a contribution towards capital investments equal to 4 percent of
the net fixed assets in operation and under construction in each fiscal year
through 1981, and 2 percent thereafter (Loan Agreement Section 4.09). This
covenant differs from the usual rate of return covenant in that, to ensure
adequate cash flow for the Authority, expenses are defined to include a
number of items which are a drain on cash but are not normally classified as
expenses, such as debt service. The expected rate of return, using tariffs
set to meet this cash coverage covenant, will be higher than the figures



- 11 -
indicated above (see paragraph 50). Within three months after entering into the
Salonica Agreement, an initial increase to an average tariff of 4.00 Drachmas
($0.11) per cubic meter of water supplied, equivalent to an increase of about
30 percent in combined water and sewerage tariffs, will be put into effect by
SSA (Loan Agreement Schedule 6).
34.       For VWSO in Volos, the Loan Agreement provides that promptly after
entering into the Volos Agreement with the Government, combined resources from
water and sewerage operations should meet the same test as for SSA, except
that the percentage of net fixed assets test should be 1.5 percent after 1981,
reflecting the differences in the future construction program of the two
authorities and their differing asset and capital structures (Loan Agreement
Section 4.10). Within three months after entering into the Volos Agreement,
both water and sewerage tariffs would be increased by 45 percent by VWSO.
35.       A number of users are not presently paying for sewerage services.
Thus the Loan Agreement provides that, by December 1977, both SSA and VWSO
will extend their tariff systems to all users of sewerage services including
those supplied from private wells, and in Volos, those located in the indus-
trial estate (Sections 4.09 and 4.10). Under the above tariff formula,
average sewerage tariffs by 1982 would be about $0.37/m3 in Salonica and
$0.40/m3 in Volos, about six times current levels. In 1976 constant prices,
these tariffs would be equal to about $0.23/m3 in Salonica and $0.25/m3 in
Volos, or about four times current levels and reasonable in terms of the users
capacity to pay. The Loan Agreement also provides that based upon the results
of an industrial wastewater study (paragraph 39 below), appropriate surcharges
will be put into effect by the two authorities by December 31, 1979 (Loan
Agreement, Sections 4.09(c) and 4.10(c)).
36.       Since water and sewerage tariffs are interlinked, water tariff
structures are outdated, and a number of water users are receiving free water,
it was agreed that, in both Salonica and Volos, following the completion of
the review of tariff structures under the project, the relevant authorities
will implement more appropriate water tariff structures and will begin to
meter present free water supplies (Loan Agreement Section 4.08). The objec-
tive is to develop a tariff system under which the users pay the costs, but
which does not unduly burden low-income consumers nor discourage the rational
use of water.
37.       Technical Policies and Pollution Control.    The introduction of
better technical procedures and pollution control policies are two of the
major improvements needed in the sub-sector. Considerable technical progress
has already been achieved during project preparation. The preliminary ocean-
ographic surveys conducted by the Institute of Oceanographic and Fishing
Research (IOKAE) for the MPW in Salonica and Volos were the first attempt
made in Greece to evaluate the environmental impact of sewerage projects.
These surveys, made in accordance with the terms of reference prepared by
the Bank proved so successful that MPW has requested IOKAE to conduct similar
surveys for other sewerage projects presently under study. To accomplish
this work, IOKAE is expanding its laboratory and recruiting additional staff.



- 12 -
Since adequate monitoring of the receiving waters is a basic requirement
for any water pollution control program, the Government also intends to
develop IOKAE's expertise on monitoring of fresh and ocean waters. In
preparing the project, oceanographic data was used for the first time to
determine the need for and level of treatment, the location of facilities and
other design parameters; and cost effectiveness criteria were applied to
determine the size of the proposed facilities. Supervision of the project
bidding and construction under Bank guidance are expected to introduce further
technical and procedural improvements, but the main impact is expected from
the studies and training provided, which are expected to contribute to more
general improvements and to the development of country-wide pollution control
policies.
38.       An oceanographic study of the Thermaikos and Pagasitikos Gulfs,
carried out by IOKAE, will provide the oceanographic data needed for the final
designs of the second stage investments of both the Salonica and the Volos
sewerage programs, and determine parameters for future monitoring of the
receiving waters in the project areas. The project also provides for as-
sistance in undertaking a review of the proposed treatment and disposal
procedures for the Mega Emvolon system, the second stage of the Salonica
construction program. This system is expected to be a pilot project for the
use of reclaimed wastewater for irrigation purposes in Greece, of particular
interest because of the limited water resources of the country. It will also
provide for the adequate protection of bathing beaches and shellfish beds.
39.       Present industrial wastewater management is inadequate and MPW lacks
the expertise to develop and implement reasonable and effective policies.
An industrial wastewater survey will be carried out to provide data on present
and future flows and wastewater characteristics, in both Volos and Salonica.
On the basis of this data, recommendations will be made covering the need for
treatment and disposal facilities, wastewater discharge guidelines for the
removal of noxious substances by industry, and a monitoring program for
industrial wastewater discharges. The monitoring program will provide for
the staff and equipment requirements, points and frequency of measurement and
parameters to monitor.
40.       The existing Volos Municipal Water and Sewerage Authority (VMWSA) is
presently carrying out an expensive investment program for new water sources
started because of possible contamination of the city's aquifer. The Loan
Agreement provides that appropriate monitoring of the aquifer will be under-
taken to more accurately determine the extent of any contamination before
further major investments are initiated (Loan Agreement Section 4.12).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History, Concept and Description
41.       The Government of Greece has been aware for some years of the tech-
nical, administrative and financial weaknesses of the institutions serving
the sewerage sub-sector at the national and the local levels, which are



- 13 -
described more fully in Part III above. In July 1972 the Bank was asked to
help identify and prepare a sewerage project. Detailed preparation of the
project was carried out by consultants hired by the Government, by the
Institute of Oceanographic Studies and Fishing Research (IOKAE) and by the
Hellenic Industrial Development Bank (ETVA). The Bank provided technical
assistance at various stages of project preparation. The project was appraised
in February 1976, and negotiations were held in Washington in October 1976.
The Greek delegation was led by Mr. Petros Papadakis, Director-General of the
Ministry of Coordination.
42.       The report, "Appraisal of the Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project,
Greece" (No. 1224-GR), dated November 12, 1976 is being distributed separately.
A loan and project summary is provided as Annex III. The primary objective of
the proposed project is to assist Greece in implementing the needed institu-
tional improvements in the sub-sector, including reforms in technical and
financial policies and practices and better organizational arrangements,
through priority pilot investments in Salonica and Volos. The broad features
of these reforms' are described in Part III above. The proposed project
consists of:
(a) final engineering and construction of the first stage,
1977 to 1981, of the Greater Salonica Area sewerage program
including the Axios system serving the city of Salonica and
its existing industrial zones and partial rehabilitation
of the existing Salonica network, involving construction of
about 65 km of secondary sewers, 18 km of trunk and force
mains, 6 pumping stations, 8 km of gravity interceptors
and about 25 km of the main interceptor, as well as a
primary treatment plant and sewer inspection and main-
tenance equipment;
(b) final engineering and construction of the first stage, 1977
to 1981, of the Greater Volos Area sewerage program, including
the infrastructure to serve the projected 1995 population, pre-
treatment facilities for wastewater, about 113 kms of related
secondary sewers, 18 kms of trunk and force mains, 6 pumping
stations, a pre-treatment plant, a 8 km interceptor and an
ocean outfall;
(c) technical assistance for: (i) a feasibility study for the
Mega Emvolon Sewerage system in the Greater Salonica Area;
(ii) industrial wastewater surveys in the Greater Salonica
and Volos areas to determine appropriate industrial wastewater
policies and tariffs; (iii) oceanographic studies of the
Thermaikos and Pagasitikos Gulfs to minimize pollution of
the project receiving waters, and (iv) studies of the systems
of accounting and financial control of the responsible water
and sewerage authorities and of their tariff structures;
and
(d) training for MPW and MI senior staff.



- 14 -
43.       The proposed project provides for 220 man-months of consultant ser-
vices, including 20 man-months of foreign consultants, to assist in carrying
out studies. An additional 1,200 man-months, including 250 man-months for
foreign consultants, are provided to assist in final design and supervi-
sion of construction of the two components which is reasonable for a project
of this type.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       The total estimated cost of the project is $113.5 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $36 million. Including physical and price con-
tingencies, the Salonica component is estimated to cost $87.7 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $29.5 million, with the costs for the the Volos
component $24.8 million and $6.1 million respectively. Studies and training
will cost an additional $1.0 million, of which $0.4 million is expected to be
in foreign exchange. Details are given in Annex III. The cost estimates
assume that the civil works contracts will be won by local contractors. An
average physical contingency of 11 percent and an average price contingency of
58 percent have been provided (51 percent on foreign costs and 61 percent on
local costs). The average costs of consulting services used are about $4,800
per man-month for foreign consultants and $2,100 for Greek consultants.
45.       The proposed loan of $36 million equivalent will finance the for-
eign costs of the project and cover 32 percent of the total project costs.
The loan would be to the Hellenic State for 15 years including a three-year
grace period. The financing plans for the two sub-projects are shown below:
Amount
US$ (Million)                 %
Salonica
Internal Cash Generation and Other                14.9                   17.0
Borrowings
IBRD Loan                                       29.5                  33.6
Government Loan                                 43.3                   49.4
Total:                                        87.7                 100.0
Volos
Internal Cash Generation                           2.9                   11.6
Borrowings
IBRD Loan                                        6.1                  24.6
Government Loan                                  7.9                  31.9
Government Equity                                  7.9                  31.9
Total:                                        24.8                 100.0
The Government will also provide $0.6 million equivalent for the local costs
of the studies and training. As can be seen, substantial funds are expected
to be provided from the authorities' own sources, particularly in Salonica



- 15 -
where an existing system broadens the revenue base. In any case, the Govern-
ment has agreed to provide, or cause to be provided, all the funds needed to
carry out the project under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Loan
Agreement section 3.01). Upon completion, all the project works will have
been transferred to the local sewerage authorities. The authorities will
repay the Government for the Bank funds under the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan (Loan Agreement Section 3.01). Since the two authorities
may not have sufficient funds to provide customers with credit facilities to
cover connection fees and consumer contributions to construction costs, the
Government has agreed to provide funds for this purpose (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01 (d)).
Project Execution
46.       MPW will have primary responsibility for project execution which
by June 1977 will be assumed by its new Wastewater Department. MPW already
has adequate staff for this purpose, and will expand its staff as needed to
undertake the wider responsibilities envisioned for it in future. Final
designs will be prepared by consultants acceptable to the Bank and construc-
tion will be carried out under their supervision by qualified contractors,
both under the overall supervision of MPW. In order to develop the capability
of the two project authorities to undertake future project design and con-
struction, staff from the two authorities will be assigned by June 1978 to
work with MPW staff on the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). Because of
the specialized technical expertise required, the responsibility for con-
struction of treatment plants and disposal facilities will remain with MPW
for the foreseeable future. The consultants for project final designs should
be selected and employed before December 31, 1976 (Loan Agreement Section
3.04). Construction is expected to have started by the end of 1977 and to be
completed in 1981 and will require the acquisition of land and rights of way
and the relocation of a small number of households. Agreement has been
reached that the land and rights of way will be acquired in a timely manner.
Greek law provides for relocation of displaced residents (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.08).
47.       The studies of industrial wastewater, accounting and financial con-
trol and the feasibility of the Mega Emvolon sewerage system will be carried
out by consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment will be acceptable to the Bank. Because of the importance of
the first two studies to the institutional objectives of the project (para-
graphs 32 and 39 above), the Government has agreed that the consultants for
these will be employed by June 30, 1977 (Loan Agreement Section 3.04). The
oceanographic studies will be carried out under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank by IOKAE under contract with MPW. IOKAE is adequately staffed
for this purpose. To evaluate the progress towards the projects technical,
financial and administrative objectives and provide guidance in the develop-
ment of future policies, the Government has agreed to monitor key indicators
of performance on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agree-
ment Section 3.07(c)).



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more than
$200,000, and civil works contracts estimated to cost more than $500,000,
will be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Group's guidelines. Bidders will be prequalified. Domestic manu-
facturers of equipment will be given a margin of preference of 15 percent
or customs duties, whichever is lower. Other equipment and civil works con-
tracts will be awarded on the basis of the procedures of MPW, which provide
for competitive bidding advertised locally but open to foreign firms and are
acceptable. Contracts will be grouped to the extent practicable after consul-
tation with Bank. Minor works, such as service connections and rehabilita-
tion or replacement of secondary sewers, may be carried out by the project
authorities under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate
value of $1.0 million. In order to continue the necessary oceanographic
studies and to enable final design to be started, advance contracting is con-
templated for work by IOKAE and by the engineering consultants. Retroactive
financing of up to $100,000 is provided for expenditures incurred after June
30, 1976 for this purpose.
49.       The loan would be disbursed against 24 percent of expenditures on
civil works and materials (representing the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent), 100 percent of foreign expenditures--and 100 percent of local ex-
penditures (ex-factory), in the unlikely event that local manufacturers win
contracts for equipment--100 percent of foreign expenditures for consulting
services, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training of staff.
Financial Projections
50.       Pro-forma financial statements have been prepared for the two new
authorities and projections of their future earnings made under the tariff
provisions noted in paragraphs 33 to 35. SSA is projected to earn a rate
of return after tax on total net fixed assets of 5 to 6 percent from 1981
onward, and VWSO about 4 percent after 1981. SSA would have a debt equity
ratio of about 50/50 in 1981, which would fall thereafter, and debt service
coverage would be 1.4-1.5 times in each year following project completion.
For VWSO, the debt equity ratio would be about 45:55 by 1980 and and remain
fairly constant thereafter; debt service coverage is expected to be 1.4-1.5
times in each year following project completion. In order to ensure the
liquidity of both SSA and VWSO, agreement has been reached that further
borrowings will not be undertaken by either authority without Bank concurrence
unless net revenues (before depreciation and interest) exceed 1.3 times debt
service in any future year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.11). The accounts and
financial statements of SSA and VWSO will be annually audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The main benefit anticipated from the project will be the development
of institutions and policies which can cope in an efficient and expeditious
manner with the long-term human, environmental and developmental problems



- 17 -
posed by wastewater disposal in Greece. The proposed Salonica sub-project
will specifically help prevent further deterioration of the water quality of
Salonica Bay, eliminate the odors which presently affect the city during part
of the summer and allow the reestablishment of fishing and reopening of
bathing beaches. The project will help eliminate the unsanitary conditions
created by overloaded septic tanks serving the poorest areas, and by the
present discharge of raw sewage into inland water courses. Some adverse
effects will result from the discharge of primary effluent into the Axios
River, although these effects will be reduced by the use of chemical coagula-
tion. The problem is expected to become serious only after 1995 when either
the upgrading of treatment or the construction of an effluent outfall will be
required. Since the affected part of the Axios River is not presently
populated, these adverse effects will be far outweighed by the resulting
benefits of improved sanitation in and around the city.
52.       In Volos, the proposed sub-project will allow closing down a
large number of the septic tanks which constitute a serious threat to the
city's water supply, and will stop the incipient deterioration of the bay's
water quality. The preliminary oceanographic studies indicate that the pro-
posed outfall location provides for adequate dilution of the pollutant ex-
pected up to 1995 and thus no significant detrimental affects are expected.
53.       While there is increasing recognition of the important benefits de-
riving from well-conceived sewerage projects, including the positive environ-
mental effects noted above, these benefits are difficult to quantify. The
dangers of large-scale industrial pollution to health often cannot be veri-
fied until after long exposure. The project will improve health, increase
property values and ameliorate fishing and recreation, as a result of the
removal of wastewaters from inland areas and the improvement of coastal waters
and beaches. Moreover, the proposed systems are necessary for the orderly
development of the two cities. The proposed methods of collection, treatment,
and disposal of sewerage are adequate and represent the least cost solutions
for each project area.
54.       The investments and measures supported by the proposed loan are an
integrated and well-conceived package. Nevertheless, some of the changes
envisaged require legislative approval and therefore face the risk that the
legislative authorities will not act promptly or will disagree with the
Government's proposals. There are also the usual risks of delay and cost
increases associated with a large and complex construction program. These
risks are mitigated by the Government's strong desire to make fundamental
changes in the sub-sector, and by the careful attention that has been given
to the preparation of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hellenic State (the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution



- 18 -
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft agreement conforms generally to the normal pattern for
loans for sewerage projects.
56.       It is a special condition of loan effectiveness that either one of
the following sets of events has occurred:
(a) with respect to SSA: (1) SSA's jurisdiction,
responsibilities and tariff powers have been appro-
priately extended and modified in a manner satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank; and (2) a
satisfactory agreement has been entered into between
the Borrower and SSA; or
(b) with respect to VWSO: (1) VWSO has been established
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
and (2) a satisfactory agreement has been entered into
between the Borrower and VWSO.
It is a special condition of disbursement for each sub-project that the set
of events referred to above relating to that sub-project has taken place by
June 30, 1978.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 15, 1976



AN.SSX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
GREECE              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KHZI                ---K------------
---------------                                GREECE                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      131.9                                     MOST RECENT
TGRIC.        ..                      1960      1970    ESTIMATE         SPAIN        MGMOIM     FRFWAUD
GNP PER CAPITA 4US$)                   530.0     1390.0    2360.0*           1560.0      3760.0     3620.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
-------------------------------
PCP'JLATI0N (MTID-YR, MILLION)         8.3        8.8       9.1              33.6         9.7       50.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PEP SaUARE KM.                      63.0      67.0       69.0              67.0       317.0       93.0
PEP so. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANC        93.0      99.0        ..              97.0       599.0      154.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVFRAGE BIRTH PArTE I/THOU          19.4      18.1       15.4              21.0        16.3       17.6
AVERAGE OEATH RATE 4/THOU)           7.3       8.0       9.4                R.8        12.3       11.2
INF4NT M'CRTALITY RATE I/THOU)      40.1      29.6      24.0               27.9       Zl.1        18.2
LIFE fXPECTANCY AT BIRTH tYPS)      68.0      70.9       71.8              70.8        70.9       71.6
GRCSS QFPROOUCTIuN RATE              1.1       1.0        1.0               1.4         1.3        1.3
PGPjLATICK GROWTH RATE 14)
)T 4L                              1.0       8.5 S     0.7                1.1        0.5        1.1
fI-R4N                               2.1       1.5         *-               2.0         1.3        2.5
SlrAPI PO3PULATIOIN (" rF TOTAL)      57.0      b2.6        ..               59.1        71.2       70.2
(or STTUCTJRE )PFCFNT)
1 Ti1 14 YFARS                     26.T      24.9       24.4              77.8        23. 7      24.0
13 Tl 64. YEARS                     65.1      64.0      63.9               62.5       63.0        62.6
c' YTpRS ANC JVEF                    8.2      11.1       11.7               9.7        13.3       13.4
VHF DCEONOENLY R4TI;                   0.5       0.6        O.6               0.6        0.6         0.6
tCCNo"IC OEPENLENCY RATIO              0.9        ..        1.1 Ia            1.1         0.9        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACC'PTQRS ICUMULATIVF, TFOUI          ..        ..         ..
LUSES 4t OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        ..         ..
CRPLGYMC~I P
T2TAL LAACP FORCE (THOUSANDI)       3600.0 /a            3300.0           11900.0     3600.0     20600.0
LAE-0 FPiECr IN AGRICULTURE t2)       54.0        ..       34.0              24.8         5.0       15.1
UNE'PLIYET It rF LAHGE FORCE)          6.0 A       ..       3.0 /anb          2.0 /a     3.0 /a      2 .2
INC,JMF DISORIbUTIUN
% IIF Pr IVATE INCC.'f PE(C0 SY-
HIGHDST 5s OF HrUSEH1LnTS           18.7  c     ..        ..7
HIGH-ST 20Y OF HOUSEHnLOS           44.7        ..         ...
L IWEST  202 "F HOUSFHOLOS           6.3 7      ..        ...
t CwFST  4017 OF HUL'SHU)LDS        1 7.4 7_     -         .**
DISTEIRUJTION OF LANn ONFRSHIP
A CWNEn BY TCP LOt OF OWNERS                              27.5 /a
3 IWNCO qH SIALLTST 19t OWNENS                              2.6 7a
H1EALTH 4INn NUTPITIIN
EOPULAT ION PER PHYSIC 14N           790.0d    620.0      500.0            143.0 A     641.O      715.0
PT'PIJIIATIC5, PEP NUPSI%C PSESOr1,  1260.o7d'a0 1140.0  1480.0 Ic         14310. 0    410.0       370.0
0,'PIILATIO. PEf HOSPITAL RED        170.0~    160.0     160.0              220.0      12. o       140.0 Ia
0O" CAPITA SUPPLY nF -
C4LTPIFS It OF RYOUIREMENTS)       120.0     1 16.0     128.0 /d          101.0      128a.0      L2.o
PlY'TTOIN IGPARS PER DAY)           99.0      99.0      113. off           81.0       94.0       104.0
-"P IHICF ANIMAL AND PULSE        39.0 &    52.0 A       ..              40.0       56.0        66 .0
['EAT  AI AT- t /THrOu  AGES 1-4        ..        ..        0.9               0.9         0.9        0.8
EDUCATIUN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT oATIn
PR)I4pRY SCHCCL                    109.0     106.0      107 0             131.0      11. 0        18.0 
SECONJARY SCHO-OL                   39. 0     66.0       69.0  ,o51.            c     84. 0       74.07
YFAES OP SCHCCL[Nf, PVOVIDEC 
IFP1ST AND SSCONO lEVEL)            12.0      12.0       12.0              13.0       14.0        14.0
VOCATIONVAL ENROLLMENT
It CF SECONDARY)                    11.0 A    20 .0     22.0 Ia               0       60. 0       19.0
ADULT LITEEACY RATE t)                80.0      6 82.0                       94. 0      99.0        99.0
HOLJSING
PERSONS PER RONM (AVERAGF)             1 .4       .,                           .0.6                  0.9
OCCUPIEr OWELLINGS WITHDOUT
PIPED WATER IC)                     71.0 ai     ..      35.0   a             *-       13.0         9.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                53.0        .       91.0 .d                       99.0       99.0
PUPAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELOCTPICITY ITI                  14.0         .       11.0                . .      9E.0       98.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVEPS IPEP THOU POPI        85.0     111.0         .              214.0      350.0       314.0
PASSFNGEp CAPS IPER THOU POP)          5.0      26.0       39.0               0.0      213.0     2754.0
ELECTPICTT (IKWH/YR PER CAP)         2174.0   1012.0     1589.0            1627.0      3199.0     2159.0
NEwSPRINT 1KG/YR PE   CAP)             2.6       l.A6      5. 9               5.8       1 8.6       1 1.9
SEE NOTES ANIY CEEEITIrONS ON REVERtSE



ANNEX I
page 2 of G pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sany yea between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, nod for Most Recen.t Estisote be tween
1973 and 1975.
CThe 1975 current $US figore, as estimated by 1976 Atlas. mthodology, has not yat boon published.
54Conidering Greece's i-ein...t entry into tbn Euccynsa Econuic Ccszssity, uoaio              with the Preac.h ecoiroy is appropriate.
GREECE      1960         Exisluding persons in cpusyailitory         -ericeo,      /b  fociuding sneoplayed se-en         Ic   1957-58. urban,     /d   1962.
/n  Including nidwive    and nurses with midwifery qoalificatiocs,        /f  Incloding maternity hospitals,       Li  1960-62,
lb  Teen.Ier training not iocluded in secondary school     nrco11-nt,     "tI    si..de only.
1970    IaDue to enigration, growth rato is I-ne        than rate of natural Increase,       lb  1967.
MOST RECENT i SfIItATI:    Ia  1971,     /b  fonlading unemployed sae,          /c  1977,     /d   1969-71 ave rage,    In   5-10 anod 11-16 yearn of
age,     If  Data refer to houaehnlds,       /g  Inside only.
SPAIN       1970     /   Registered   nenployed;     /b  Registerd, not all practicing in the coanc ry.         It  h-is and 11-16 yeats of aee ..eopcti-sly.
BELGIUM     1970     Rilegiscered unemployed only.
FRANiCE     197i0    I   Govrnet hospital notablishnsts only,           Lb   6-l0 and 11-17 years of age reapectiv-1y.
Ril, N-venber 3. 1976
DEPTITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
TtL.   -Ttlsrfc.raladaedn                               inland  aters.Poplation nor nursing Person - Population divided by number of practicing
Tltll  T.V ~  . arec sprisiog                                                         maleeaadi.adatr.1 and female graduate nurses, " .trained" or "certified" cuss,ad
Agric.- Most recent estimate of airiculturl1 area wand temporarily or per-                    sunillary pearoenne  with training or n.Periencc.
nanen,tly for cra ps, pastures    narhec i kitchen gardens or to ie. fallow,               Population pet hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital
f?per ca pita(01$) - GNIP per capita estimates a t curet marcbt pri,cs,                     beds availoble in public and private general and special1e-d hospital
calculated by san   couecoion vethud as World Banb Atlas (1973-75 basis,                    and rehabilitation centers ..encldco n           h-tn .bne  and establislsoets
1960.,1970 and 1975 data.                                                                   for custodial sod pravestino care
d Vital  t.-.ti-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~Par caPita supply of calories_(7 of_cesuirementn) - Conpuced fr-n
Pouai n aoeia    cactc                                                                    nergy eq,,ivalnnt of net food ouppli.io  available in contry par
.Papultuo fold-yr. million     - As of July first:    ci noc u-ilable, ueaecpt                         o   a:oalbesple               opiedcsi            rdcim        mot
of tao end-year otntn        1960, 1970 and 1973 data,                                       less emports, sod changes in stoch, net sapplies eocludn animal feed,
seeds, quan.tities used is food prooeusisg and louses in distribucto,a
Poplaion dnnstlty-nr      9sar lou - mid-year population per square bil-                    reqoiremeto were e-tlasated by FAG based on physiological oee do for
me.ter (105 hertares)7of total area.                                                         murml activity asd health cons.idering envirsseta1 temperature, body
Posuatio desuro- pe usaro on o  acic.  and -Coputed as above for                weights, age and sen diotributioss of population, and a11owisg 117. for
agrivulcural lasd only.                                              was~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.te athousehold level.
ter tspics surely sPpoen(          o   e   a)-resilns       "Ionont"  of per
Vital siatistics                                                                               tapita net supply of food Per day, net     sply of food is dafined a,
Crude birth rate per tbhuossd - Annual lion births per thousand ef nid-year                    above, requlcenonts fsr all countries established by EIDA Economin
population, ten-year arithm~etic averages endung in 1960 and 1970, and five-                Research Services provide for a minimme alo..a.ce o f 60 grant of total
neat average ending is 1975 for moot recent estimate                                        protein per day, and 20 grons of animal acd pulse protein, of which
Crnde death rate Por thousad - sAsnual deaths per thousad of mid-year                          IS grss should he anima     protein; these standards are lower than
PoPo1ation. ten-yant arih    rct  a    erag   ending is 1960 and 1970 and                   tbooe of 75 geans cf total protein and 23 geono of animal protein an
five -year average .oding in 1975 fur most recent estimate,                                 an average fur the world, proposed by PAl in the Tblcd wurld fond
Isas nrtality rate (/thoa) - Annua    deaths of infants -odr one year of                   U"rney.
aopr rhoasund Ine- bIrths                                                               e  aianoti         aeyfa aimal an-utir                 t      Go spply ul
Laineunntasua t irthlyro  - aerag  o-bor of years of lifn rnnuining                 fod   erve      frn acaoand pubes. in groos Perdy
at  s-h, usually fi-n-year a--rgno od-ng is 1960. 1970 and 1975 for                     Death rato f/thou) ace      1-4 - Annual deatho per thsusand in age group 1-4a
d.evlop-og c-us-es,                                                                         years, ts children ins this      9 ageGrop,  -ggcs ted as as indicator of
Cros repruducic1 on tac-.Aveag.      nbe    of lIve- daughters a woods will                   malnutrition.
bear cchoc,    na    cordctIv      pert-d if sho nop-ei..ca. present age-
spootfarfert ility rates   usualy fiveyear        _ avraeo end iog is 1960j,              Education
1970 nod 1975 for developing countries                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratio - prima-ry school - Enrllmen.t of all ages as
Popullaion grou    ate(71    tta       -  Cooposnd asosu,l growth raun  of .,Id-              Percentage of prima-ry school-age Population, includes children aged
voar popu1.laion for 1950-60. 1960-70 and 19 70-73.                                         6-11 years but adjuoted for dtfferent lengths of pri-ury educutiun,
Poyalation growth rate (7. -    jaban - ConpuLe d like growth rate of total                   for countries with unIversal1 ed-si.on, enrollnest may -ccend 1007.
population,,different definitions of urban areas mey affect coupara-                        -snce soo   pupils are below or above the official school age.
bility of data among cutio                                                               Adjisted en-laeant ratio - u-2ondar school - C-sputed as above,
Urban population (7. of ticla_l  - Ratio of urban to total pspalation, diffe-                 secondary education requires at least four years of uppr-ved privary
rent definition   of urban areas nay affect co,sp-rbility of data am,ong                    instruction, provides general, vocational or teacher training
counrie,                                         insfotrutionSfor pupils of 12 to 17 yeurs of age, correspondence
Ann structure (Percceut) - Cbildrnn (0-li yncur),..wcking-ogc (15-64 years),                   ore      re generally nxcluded,
and rentired (65 years and.ovr) as percentages of mid-year population                    Years of schooling provided (_firstanseodlv            s)-Ttlyrs            f
Ase epedeny rtio  Raio  f ppultion under 15 and 60 and over to                      nchoolaag  atsecondary level     vocational itnotrntioo -ay be Partially
ths  o  ges II throagb hi.                                                             or coopletely emcluded.
fcon-ic dependency ratio    -Rtio of population wdadr 1) and 65 and ovrV"otinna1tenrollme1nti(.1 Of secodar)e- Voostionl institutions
to the labor force in age gru      f1-64 yearn.                                             incld    ehia,idsra              rohrporm            hc     prt     ce
faiy lnnn,,,scetrs(umltie to)-                    uultvenobro                            peudeotly or as depurttmnts of secondary institutions,
acoeptoro   fbrhcnro          eie      ne   asices of national favily                    Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate aut        al    ora      o    rt)a
planning pragra   sInce inception                                                           pecntg       f  oallttoulto                aged 10 . years a ndover.t a
fm_ily PanI.  g M-so  r (.o=mrid wann) - Percentages of married                               pr.tg          fttldI          ---i.ae           5yasad-r
wosn of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who us       birth-control devices                Housing
to allmaried woisn in stune age group.                                                   Peron Per roa       (average) - Average number of person    per roa   in
E,pl,y-nt                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~occupied con-etionsi dwell Ings in urban areas, dwellings eaIlde no-
lIoploymeot                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~petm net stractres and on_cupied parts..
Total labor fre(huad           - Econo"icaIly active persons, including                     Occup2ied dwellings withOut P     Ip d water (7)  Ocpied conventional
arme   fore   adunmloe        but esoluding housowines, stdadets., etc..                    dwellings inIbnso        na    areas without inside or outside Piped
definitions in various countries ace not cooparable.                                       water faoilities an percentage of all occpied dwellings.
Labor force inAgriculur17.          Artucra1 labor force (in farming,                       Anccs to nicentricity(o      alrltdelina      - Coovetinma1 dwellings with
forestr, huntig endfshing)  n prcentage of total lbor force,                      lcriiyi          Flnng  a qatraspercent of~ totni dwellings In urban
'Oremlyd(.olaofa           e      - Ueployed r'     sal   deflined as Persona                and rural areas.
who are ahlo and willing to take a job, out of a Job on a given day,                      Raral dwellings conneced to electricity (7.) - Computed as above for
remined out of a job, and seeking work for a specified mintoso       period                rors   dwellings only
not emneding one week; may not be canparable between countries dun to
different defin itions of ooeployed and sorce of data. e.g., employ-                     Consmption
nest of fic e statistics , .-aPIe surveys, cP-IOLsoY oneployment insurance.               Radio receivers p   rtounn         All types of receivers far radio broad-
IncoPe di.trib                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~casts to genera  pbipethousand of popalation, -ealdes a-Ii.nemnd
bleditiution - Percentage of private incume (both in cash and kind)                       roce.ivers in coun tries and in rears when registratioo    of radio sets was
received by richest 57.. richest 20%, poorest 207.. aed pooreet 407. of                     in effect, data for recent years nay not be oumparable oince most
bausehoide.                                                                                 countries abolishbed licenoiag.
Paosenger ears (see thou eop) - Passenger cars cumprise motor cars seating
Pistribution of land ownership, - Peruentages of land owed by wealthiest                      leo  thnegtproaLmldsablne,hassadmltr
107. and p6oores_t 10 .ofland7ownera.                                                        eashinleo.      p.m;.c.e.m~ac.,h.                      .an       ltr
Heatth and Nutriti-                                                  E~~~~~~~~~~~lectriciy (o/r netap  Annual consumption of industrial,oe-
Health and Nutrition                                            cial, public and ~~~~~~~~     ~  ~~~~privat  elcricity is kilowatt haste per napits,
Popuatio necphyicia  - Ppultion divided by sooher of practicing                      generally based on production data, without allowance ion losses In
physicians qualified  Lfan   a medical school at university level,                          grids bu  alloing for imports and emparts of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/ re per cap) - Pe r capita annal consuption in kilogrons
estimated fran dum~eatic Prodoction plus set importa of newsprint.



ANMEX I
Page 3 of 6
GREECE: ECONCNSIC DEVELOPlENT DATA
Average Annual Gro-th Rates
Actual                                      Pro Jetted                      1910      1973-     1974_      19 75-
1970     1973      1974      1975           1976      1977      1978      1980           1973      1974      1975      1980
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS           I
(1974.100;billion drachm-.)-!
Gross Domstic Product (m.p.)             470.3    590.7     575.2     608.4          643.3     672.7     708.5     790.6           7.9      -2.7       5.6       5.5
GaIns from Ter,n. of Trade                -1.8      -         -        -4.0           -3.9      -3.6      -3.8      -3.8
Gross Domestic Income                    468.5    590.7     575.2     604.4          639.4     669.1     704.7     786.8           7.8.     -2.7       5.0       5.5
Esports (g . nfs)                         56.6     83.8      87.5      95.5          102.6     111.2     121.1     142.9          14.0       6.0       9.1       8.4
Imports (g . nfs)                       -110.0   -156.3    -144.8    -137.4         -144.0    -150.8    -159.2    -179.6          12.5      -8.0      -5.1       5.5
Resource Bealce                         -53.4    -72.5     -57.3     -41.9          -41.4     -39.7     -38.1     -36.7
Investment                               141.5    188.3     146.2     148.1          155.8     161.4     170.8     191.5          10.2     -28.8       1.3       5.3
Con-umption                              380.4    474.9     486.3     498.3          525.0     547.4     571.9     632.1           7.3       2.4       2.5       4.8
Domestic Saving.                          93.3    115.8      88.9     106.1          114.4     121.7     132.7     154.9           7.6     -23.3      19.4       7.8
National Savings                         106.6    135.0     106.9     121.9          129.0     135.0     144.9     165.8           8.2      21.9      14.0       6.4
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                 Share of GDP (fc) at 1974 prices
Agriculture                                        19.4      19.2      19.1           18.8      18.4      18.0      17.1
Industry                                           30.0      30.1      30.2           30.4      30.9      31.4      32.9            --
Servic-.                                           50.6      50.6      50.7           50.7      50.7      50.6      49.9
C. PRICES   (1974.100)
Export Price Ind.2/                       57.9     82.2     100.0     106.5          114.7     125.1     135.4     155.4           4.5      21.6       6.5       7.4
Import Price Indee2/                      52.8     80.0     100.0     110.9          118.9     129.2     139.2     159.6           5.3      25.0      10.9       7.5
Terms of Tradla Inde-                    108.1    102.7     100.0      96.0           96.4      96.8      97.2      97.4
GDP Deflator-                             63.5     77.5     100.0     112.5          123.8     134.9     147.0     174.7                    29.0      12.5       9.2
Average Echange Rate (01.00-Drs.)         30.0     29.6      30.0      32.3
D. PUBLIC FINANCE                                   Aa per cent of GDP (mp)
Current Revenue                           18.5     18.2      18.1      20.3
T.. Revenue                               17.2     16.6      16.8      19.5
Current Eapenditures                      16.2     15.5      17.4      19.6
Defense Eapenditures                       3.3      2.9       3.4       5.0
Covernment Savings                         2.3      2.7       0.7       0.7
Capital Eapenditure                        4.3      5.1       5.7       4.8
E. SELECTED INDICATORS                            1965-73         1975_801/                  F. LABOR FORCE                             1961           1971-4/
Incre--enta1 Capiatl/Dutput htio                 3.0             4.2                         Labor Force (m/n)                      3.86           3.39
Inport Elasticity                                1.2             1.1                         Unemployment (n/n)                     0.22           0.11
Average National Saving. Rate                   16.7            19.8                           (X of LF)                            5.7            3.2
Marginal National Saving. Rate                  24.2            24.5                         Employment (n/n)                       3.64           3.28
I.ports/GDP                                     24.0            22.5                           % share of:
Agriculture                       53.9           40.5
Industry                          19.1           25.6
Services                          27.0           33.9
1/ Figures for 1965 obtained by applying grovth ratea obtained from the old national income accounts eerie.
eapresaed in constant 1958 prices. The new series expressed in constant 1970 price. is   vailable only for 1970-75 and
conversion to 1974 base for present puFpoes was arrived at by shifting the implicit GNP deflator to 1974.
2/  Based on Bank estimates of international price movementa.
3/ For reasons eapres.ed in footnote 1/ above, only a rough comparison can be made between the two sets of social indicetor values.
4/  Labor force data is currently under major reviion due to inccuractea discovered in the 1971 census particularly with regard
to the occupationa-l atrcture.  These ftgores  therefore, my not be comparable to those reported recently eleewhere.
EhIENA Region
CPD II-A
October 20, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1973      1974       1975      1976      1977       1980
A. Constant 1974 Prices (Million $)
Food                                      869.8     585.4     602.5      590.1     592.3     678.2
Intermediate goods                        868.7     951.8     793.4      862.8    1004.9    1265.4
Petroleum and products                   1049.4     863.5     805.7      860.3     904.4     1083.2
Manufactured consumer goods              1128.8     941.3      999.0    1023.8     996.9     1155.8
Capital goof                             1337.8    1257.8     1174.0    1203.9    1253.5     1480.1
Other goods                                29.8      35.5       25.8       -         -          -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                     5038.5-'  4635.2     4400.4    4540.9    4752.0    5662.7
Non-factor services-                      582.5     539.6      505.8     602.4     633.5     750.5
Total goods and NFS                      5621.0    5174.8     4906.2    5143.3    5385.5    6413.2
B. Price Indices (1974=100)
Food                                       87.0     100.0      88.0       99.0     109.0      126.9
Intermediate goods                         83.4     100.0     111.9      119.2     129.2      160.5
Petroleum and products                     39.4     100.0      109.2     118.3     128.5      159.1
Manufactured consumer goods                84.0     100.0      114.5     121.9     132.2      164.2
Capital goods                              87.0     100.0      117.2     124.8     153.3      168.1
Other goods                                80.0     100.0      132.0       -          -         -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                       80.0     100.0      110.8     118.5     128.7      159.1
Non-factor services1"                      80.0     100.0      111.2     122.3     132.1      164.1
Total goods and NFS                        80.0     100.0      110.8     118.9     129.2      159.6
C. Current Values (Million $)
Food                                      756.8     585.4      530.2     584.2     645.6      860.6
Intermediate goods                        724.5     951.8     865.5     1028.5    1298.2     2030.8
Petroleum and products                    413.5     863.5      840.5    1018.3    1162.6     1723.4
Manufactured consumer goods               948.2      941.3    1143.9    1248.0    1317.7     1897.9
Capital gooy                             1163.9    1257.8     1462.5    1502.7    1696.0     2487.8
Other goods                                23.9      35.5       33.0       -          -         -
Total goods (c.i.f.)                     4030.8    4635.2     4875.7    5381.7    6120.2     9010.5
Non-factor services                       466.0     539.6      562.8     736.9     837.2     1232.2
Total goods and NFS                      4496.8    5174.8     5438.5    6118.6    6957.5    10242.8
Obtained as a residual
2/ Total imports of goods, US$ 5038.5 million, is smaller than the sum of the components because of the
large differences in the movements of price indices
3/ Implicit import price index based on residual quantities
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
October 20, 1976



ANNEX I
EXPORT DETAIL
1973       1974        1975       1976       1977        1980
A. Constant 1974 Prices (Million $)
Tobacco                                   124.5      158.4       143.2      171.3      178.2       200.4
Food and beverage                         374.5      374.2       500.6      429.9      445.0       498.2
Textiles and yarns                        213.3      202.0       214.9      229.1      244.0       297.5
Mineral and ores                           88.8      103.1       167.7      199.6      207.6       238.8
Metals                                     58.8      102.0       152.6      164.4      176.4       223.4
Petroleum pjoducts                        116.5      123.5        79.6       85.1       94.6       128.7
Other goods-                              617.5      681.8       432.6      708.0      665.2       966.2
Total goods (f.o.b.)                     1593.9     1774.1      1751.2     1987.4     2011.0      2553.2
Non-factor services-/                    1615.3     1632.0      1819.6     1814.3     2088.9      2686.8
Total goods and NFS                      3209.3      3405.0     3570.8     3801.7     4099.9      5240.0
B.  Price Indices (1974=100)
Tobacco                                    71.9      100.0       119.6      126.2      135.8       167.4
Food and beverage                          92.6      100.0        88.0       99.0      109.0       127.0
Textiles and yarns                         72.9      100.0       112.0      119.2      129.2       160.5
Mineral and ores                           82.3      100.0        80.0       87.0       99.0       138.0
Metals                                     59.8       100.0       80.0       87.0       99.0       138.0
Petroleum pEqducts                         39.8      100.0       109.2      118.4      128.5       159.1
Other goods-                               80.4      100.0       166.8      126.0      158.5       187.4
Total goods (f.o.b.)                       77.2      100.0       111.9      119.2      129.2       160.5
Non-factor services2/                      87.8      100.0       101.3      117.7      121.0       149.5
Total goods and NFS                        82.2      100.0       106.5      114.7      125.1       155.4
C. Current Values (Million $)
Tobacco                                    88.3      158.4       160.4      216.2      241.9       335.5
Food and beverage                         346.8      374.2       493.4      425.6      485.0       632.1
Textiles and yarns                        155.5      202.0       240.7      273.0      315.2       477.5
Mineral and ores                           73.1       103.1      134.2      173.7      205.6       329.5
Metals                                     35.2      102.0       122.1      143.0       174.7      308.3
Petroleum products                         46.4      123.5        87.0      100.8      121.6       204.8
Other goods                               485.3      681.8       721.8      892.1     1054.1      1810.3
Total goods (f.o.b.)                     1230.5     1774.1      1959.6     2224.3     2598.2      4098.0
Non-factor services                      1407.6     1632.0      1843.3     2136.6     2529.1      4045.2
Total goods and NFS                      2638.1     3405.0      3802.9     4360.9     5127.3      8143.3
1/ Obtained as a residual
2/ Implicit export price index associated with residual quantities
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
October 20, 1976



BALANCE OF PAY0BNTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                    ANNEX I
(In Current US$ Million.)                                            PKge 6 of 6
1972            1973          1974           1975               1976           1977           1978           1979           1980
A. SUMIIARY OF BALANCE OF PAYtlENTS-/
1. Epo-t. (good. and NFS                  1839.6          2638.1        3405.0         3802.9            4360.9          5127.3         6020.3         7011.5         8143.2
2.  Lport. (good. and NFS)                2726.4          4496.8        5174.8         5438.5             6118.6         6957.5         7912.8         8999.3        10232.8
3.  Recource B1lance                      -886.8         -1858.7       -1768.8        -1635.6            -1757.7        -1830.1        -1892.6        -1987.8        -2089.5
4. Total net f.ctor Lncoae        2/       514.0           683.5         550.2          626.4              584.2          617.7          621.6          630.3          642.3
A.  Int-r-et and profit. (net)         -56.3           -51.9         -95.1         -107.6             -187.8         -230.0         -294.0         -358.6         -425.3
b. Worker-' r-ittnte_                  575.3           735.4         645.3          734.0              772.0          847.7          915.6          988.9         1067.6
5. Net tran-fers
6.  Balance on Corrent Actount            -367.8         -1175.2       -1218.6        -1009.2            -1173.5        -1212.3        -1270.9        -1357.4        -1447.2
7.  Pri-at Capital Infl.e.                 681.3           789.2         736.3          964.5             1137.4         1331.0         1530.7         1760.2         2024.3
a.  DIrect foreIgn tnveetment43        194.2           314.7         276.6          315.0              350.6          416.5          491.5          580.0          684.1
6.  Depo.itt oAth Ca.eeerci-l BankI -  149.3           120.6         103.4          182.2              256.8          307.0          365.0          435.0          518.0
0.  Borrotn8- of -ehlh                337.8           353.9         356.3          467.3              530.0          607.0          674.2          745.2          822.2
SupplIr credit. (ret)           198.2           161.4         125.4          230.5              290.0          365.0          420.0          490.0          560.0
8.  Publlc MoLT end Short-urn C.pital      315.2           418.0         486.6          635.2              596.0          586.3          584.7          569.5          637.9
a.   Short tet- tredlt.                259.0           314.8         368.6          429.1              410.0          471.3          500.8          474.2          442.6
b.  PubIlt LT inane                     56.2           103.2         118.0          206.1              186.3          115.0           83.9           95.3           95.3
9. A-orti.atlon.                          -157.3          -172.2        -176.2         -335.7             -449.0         -565.0         _685.0         -790.9         -909.1
10. Net capital trans-ton.                  839.2          1035.0        1046.7         1264.0             1284.4         1352.3         1430.4         1538.8         1653.1
11.  Errors and Oln.lon                     -29.7          -152.6         -59.3         -247.9                -              -              -              -              -
12. Ch4ng8 inreLnro -                      -501.1           -12.4        -112.6           -6.9             -111.2         -140.0         -159.5         -181.4         -205.9
B.  LOAN COMM0I1TMhENTS T_S_                                                                                                    _     _   _t_             __I
1. Total public MoLT lo.n-                 106.7            95.0         180.1          357.9             PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT            1972       1973       1974       1975
a.  IBRD                                23.5            15.0          30.0          110.0
b. EIS                                   7.7            11.8           -             47.3             PublIc DOD                     1339.9     1542.0     2031.1     2541.4
c.   th                                 75.3            68.2         150.1          200.6             Ant;rKt                          61.7      I90.7      i43.4      172.4
A-enti.titn                     110.7      175.2       187.2     269.6
2. Total public co--erclal loon.           397.2           468.4         478.0          358.0             Total Debt Serite               172.4      265.9      330.6      442.0
C. PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT                        Out.tandin  D-ec. 31, 1975                                     Debt Ser-oc Retio
(Oeihoreed Only)                        Ao-nt               Percent                                       Debt S-rvice/Enp-rt NBS         9.3       10.0        9.8       11.6
Debt SeIto/Epote NIPS I
1.  08RD                                    70.6                2.8                                            I-rant. Re,littance.         7.1        7.9        8.2        9.7
2.  Other Multilateral                      97.4                3.8
3.   oovrenet                              323.7               12.7                                       Ter-e
4.  Floanclol In.tltntlone                1752.7               69.0                                         Interest an Tatal DD6D/
5.  Soppllere Credit                       152.8                6.0                                            Tatal DO6D                   4.6        5.9        7.0        6.8
6.  Other.                                 144.2                5.7                                         Total Debt Service/Total DO0D  12.9       17.2       16.3        17.4
TOTAL                               2541.4              100.0
IBRD DOD                        32.7       48.7       60.5       70.6
IBRD DOD A- a . of Total DOD    2.4        3.1        3.0        2.8
IBRD Debt ServIice an  of
Tot.l Debt Serolco              2.3        2.1         2.4        2.6
1,  Laned on Lhr blan-e of paynante dat- oompilnd by the Central Bnk of Greece uSing 1971 Smith-ani-n pritie. for
C2bcr lo-                       h purpose. bet-een draohnn end other currenc Ire lor 1972-1975 data.
2,  Inclode- net direct inoInt n- t Lnce end net dividendK.
3   Includes direct -nvoetrent under L.. 2687/53, re-l eatot. In-est-ent and ather net pri-ute lnoeetaent.
4 frorig. currency deposit. of Gree-k catonols abroad aith lOCal cn-iarctal bhnk..
5    - LcLudes I.ane to pri-Ato corpor-tlone, net a.ppliers' crdit and Iane to private bank.
o, horrocinge by tLe Conceal lank of Creece and other poblic agenc-ei.
7, TI lcd-e IMF fuo,d.
EhENA RIg1on
CPD Il-A
No.ehber 8, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
A.       STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of September 30, 1976)
US$ Million
Amount
Loan                                                      (Less
Number    Year   Borrower           Purpose            Cancellation)    Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                  71.6             -
711     1970   Hellenic State     Education               13.8            6.0
754     1971   Hellenic State     Irrigation              25.0           11.3
859     1972   Hellenic State     Education               23.5           22.8
991     1974   Hellenic State     Irrigation              30.0           30.0
1134     1975   Hellenic State     Education               45.0           45.0
1135     1975   NIBID              Industrial Finance      25.0           20.2
1165     1975   Hellenic State     Irrigation              40.0           40.0
12401'   1976   Hellenic State     Highway                 30.0           30.0
TOTAL                                     303.9         205.3
of which has been repaid                 21.0
Total now outstanding                     282.9
Amount sold                    13.9
of which has been repaid      2.3        11.6
Total now held by Bank-=                  271.3
Total undisbursed                                       205.3
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of September 30, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor                             Type of Business      Loan    Equity    Total
1962   Aevol Industrial Company            Fertilizers          0.60       -       0.60
Organic Fertilizers, S.A.
1965   "Titan" Cement Company, S.A. I      Cement                1.00     0.50     1.50
1966   National Investment Bank for        Industrial             -       0.72     0.72
Industrial Development, S.A.        Finance
1966   General Cement Company, S.A.        Cement                3.50      -       3.50
1966   "Titan" Cement Company, S.A. II     Cement                -        0.03     0.03
1970   Aluminium de Grece, S. A.           Aluminium             3.50     5.10     8.60
Industielle et Commerciale I
1972   Aluminium de Grece, S. A.           Aluminium              -       0.05     0.05
Industielle et Commerciale II
1975   Hellenic Food Industries, S. A.*    Food Processing       1.00     0.13     1.13
Total Gross Commitments                                  9.60      6.53    16.13
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             7.19      5.72    12.91
Total commitments now held by IFC                  2.41      0.81     3.22
Total undisbursed
* A supplementary equity investment of $0.11 million was
approved September 3, 1976 but not yet recorded.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 711 - First Education Project; $13.8 million Loan of November 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977.
Three of the five project post secondary technical schools have been
completed and the remaining two will be during the first quarter of 1977.
Contracts for furniture and for about 40 percent of the educational equipment
have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining equipment is expected to be
completed during 1977. Despite delays in construction and procurement, the
higher technical education program has been offered since 1974, both in
temporary facilities and in the partially-finished project schools. At
present, about 9,000 students are enrolled in the program, or more than 45
percent above original design capacity.
Loan No. 754 - Groundwater Development Project (Irrigation); US$25 million
Loan of June 21, 1971; Effectiveness Date: November 15, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Implementation of this project began slowly due to delays in contract
awards, changes in design of the distribution network following consultants'
recommendations, and a protracted search for a satisfactory solution, found in
December 1973, to the question of farmers' contributions to the capital cost
of the project.   The Government has proposed phasing the construction of the
permanent irrigation network through 1984. Drilling of the wells is 85 percent
completed and irrigation has started on about 8,000 ha of the 40,000 ha using
temporary facilities. The substantial cost overruns are being borne by the
Government.
Loan No. 859 - Second Education Project; $23.5 million Loan of October 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
Architectural designs for all project institutions are proceeding
satisfactorily. Procurement of equipment for existing schools has started and
some contracts have been awarded. The Education Project Unit in the Ministry
of Coordination and Planning is performing satisfactorily. However, due to
initial delays in proposing designs and bidding documents, project completion
is now expected only in 1980. These delays together with changes in educa-
tional and technical designs have led to cost increases about 70 percent above
the appraisal estimates, for which the Government is providing funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan No. 991 - Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project: $30.0 Million Loan
of June 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1980.
Because of political changes in Greece, there were delays in com-
pleting the conditions of effectiveness. Project implementation has however
begun and the review of the tertiary canal design standards has been com-
pleted. The first contract was awarded in September and construction has
begun. The Government has requested postponement of the Nestos sub-project
pending new discussions with the upstream riparian on use of the river waters.
The funds could be used for Yannitsa.
Loan No. 1134 - Third Education Project; $45 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
A Steering Committee has been established to guide and monitor the
three studies on post-secondary education, pedagogical training and production
of education included in the project. Consultants have been engaged for two
of the studies and candidates for the third study are being examined. The
Ministries of Education and Labor are organizing technical services for day-
to-day implementation of the physical aspects of the project. A key feature
of the project is the introduction of multilateral secondary education through
ten project schools. The Government is now in the process of passing the
legislative framework for even more ambitious reforms. Some delays have
resulted from having to reflect these encouraging developments, which do
not affect enrollments or costs, in the project school designs.
Loan No. 1135 - Fifth NIBID Project: $25 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments under this loan as of September 30, 1976 amounted to
$21.8 million.
Loan No. 1165 - The East Vermion Irrigation Project: $40.0 Million Loan
of October 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: August 12, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
-   Progress is satisfactory.   Tender documents are being prepared
and the first contract is expected to be let shortly. A Project Manager
and a steering committee have been appointed and are functioning. The
Government has requested postponing the feasibility studies for a future
project in the Xanthi Komotini area, which is under consideration by the
Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 1240 - Highway Project: $30.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31,-1980.
The terminal date for effectiveness of the loan was postponed to
December 31, 1976 at the request of the Government to allow time for Parlia-
mentary ratification of the Loan Agreement and establishment of the main-
tenance service and transport coordinating committee. Work is progressing
satisfactorily on advertisement, bidding and procurement at this early
stage of the project.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
GREECE - VOLOS AND SALONICA SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Hellenic State
Beneficiaries:       The Salonica Sewerage Authority and the Volos Water
and Sewerage Organization.
Amount:              US$36 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years including a 3-year grace period
with interest at 8.7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:     Same as those for the Bank loan.
Project              The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist
Description:        Greece in implementing the reorganization of the sewerage
sector through two priority investments in the Greater
Salonica and Volos Areas. The project includes:
(1) Salonica Component:
(a) installation of about 65 km of secondary sewers,
17 km of trunk and force mains, and three pump-
ing stations, to serve the coastal areas and the
Lagadas and Esso industrial zones;
(b) installation of about 8 km of gravity inter-
ceptors, 1 km of force mains, and three pumping
stations to intercept the trunk mains dis-
charging into Salonica Bay;
(c) construction of about 25 km of main interceptor
between White Tower and the Axios River;
(d) construction of a primary treatment plant
with an initial capacity of 3.9 m3/second; and
(e) purchase of equipment for sewer inspection and
maintenance.
(2) Volos Component:
(a) installation of about 113 km of secondary
sewers, 18 km of trunk and force mains and
six pumping stations;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
(b) construction of a pre-treatment plant with
an initial capacity of 0.44 m3/second;
(c) installation of a collector of about 4 km
to carry wastewater from the industrial
estate to the pre-treatment plant; and
(d) construction of about 8 km final interceptor
and about 0.7 km ocean outfall to discharge
the pre-treated wastewater into the Thermaikos
Gulf.
(3) Studies and Training:
(a) feasibility studies for the Mega Emvolon
sewerage system in the Greater Salonica Area
to serve the southeastern part of the Salonica
metropolitan area;
(b) industrial wastewater surveys in the Greater
Salonica and Greater Volos Areas to establish
appropriate policies, procedures, controls
and tariffs for industrial wastewaters;
(c) oceanographic studies of the Thermaikos and
Pagasitikos Gulfs to:
(i) allow monitoring of the receiving waters
once the proposed sewerage project enter
operation; and
(ii) establish a mathematical model to forecast
the cost of treatment for different types
of industrial developments and various
criteria of water quality;
(d) studies relating to the Salonica Water Authority,
the Salonica Sewerage Authority and the Volos
Water and Sewerage Organization to (i) review
their systems of accounting and financial
control with a view to the implementation of
systems more appropriate to the operations of
semi-autonomous water and sewerage authorities
and (ii) review their tariff structures;
(e) training of senior staff of the Ministries of
Interior and Public Works.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign     Total
Salonica
Civil Works                                 27.6        7.0       34.6
Equipment                                    -0-        8.3        8.3
Land                                          1.7        -         1.7
Engineering and Administration               3.1        2.1        5.2
Sub-Total                              32.4      17.4        49.8
Volos
Civil Works                                  9.7        1.9       11.6
Equipment                                    -0-        1.1        1.1
Land                                         0.3         -         0.3
Engineering and Administration               0.9        0.6        1.5
Sub-Total                              10.9       3.6        14.5
Studies and Training                              0.4        0.3        0.7
Basic Project Cost                          43.7       21.3       65.0
Physical Contingencies                             4.4       2.5        6.9
Price Contingencies                               29.4      12.2       41.6
Grand Total                            77.5       36.0      113.5
Financing Plan:
Amount
US$ (Mtillion)       %
Salonica
Internal Cash Generation and Other                14.9          17.0
Borrowings
IBRD Loan                                   29.5           33.6
Government Loan                             43.3           49.4
Total                                  87.7          100.0
Volos
Internal Cash Generation                           2.9          11.6
BQ.rrowings
IBRD Loan                                    6.1           24.6
Government Loan                               7.9          31.9
Government Equity                                  7.9          31.9
Total                                  24.8          100.0
Studies and Training
IBRD Loan                                         0.4           40.0
Government                                         0.6          60.0
Total                                   1.0          100.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Estimated
Disbursements:            FY77     FY78     FY79      FY80     FY81     FY82
Annual         0.1       1.7      4.0        7.7     11.8     10.7
Cumulative     0.1       1.8      5.8      13.5      25.3     36.0
Procurement          Equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more
Arrangements:       than US$200,000, and civil works contracts estimated to
cost more than US$500,000, will be procured after interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's guidelines. Bidders will be prequalified.
Domestic manufacturers of equipment will be given a margin
of preference of 15 percent or customs duties, whichever
is lower. Other equipment and civil works contracts will
be awarded on the basis of the procedures of the Ministry
of Public Works, which involve competitive bidding adver-
tised locally but open to foreign firms and are acceptable.
Contracts will be grouped to the extent practicable after
consultation with the Bank. Minor works, such as service
connections and rehabilitation or replacement of secondary
sewers, may be carried out by SSA and/or VWSO under
arrangements acceptable to the Bank, up to an accumulated
value of US$1.0 million. Consultants will be selected
following Bank guidelines and employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. Retroactive financing
of up to US$100,000 is provided for expenditures after
June 30, 1976 for necessary oceanographic studies and to
enable final designs to be started.
Technical            About 220 man-months of consultants services are provided
Assistance          under the project to carry out the various studies.   An
(Consultants):     additional 1,200 man-months, including 250 man-months
for foreign consultants are provided for final design
and supervision of construction of the two components.
IOKAE has been selected for the oceanographic study,
and the consultants for final design are expected to
be selected shortly.
Rate of Return:      The benefits are not sufficiently quantifiable to cal-
culate a rate of return.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:    December 31, 1981
Appraisal Report:    "Appraisal of the Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project,
Greece", No. 1224-GR, dated November 12, 1976.






A v \1Y rS J / 1\ p g
|  /   _   %  DJ  _,           )   C  )  A    /  2  Lad Ou(fal      rstst2ndStatGRAal SSEXt ER
92 . 0               t ,r0"~ 
Alet/etNt4  Sw   ~ -4   t 1   tX  l6 -tt ,Sldd,     a5  t i  E  S  4 '/    5 GR503 253E
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POOE                          SEWRAG    SCHEME~~2255  2'8



