CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1345-GR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project)
between
THE HELLENIC STATE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 3, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1977, between THE HELLENIC STATE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 of this Agreement by making the Loan as here-
inafter provided;
(B) The,Borrower has represented to the Bank that Salonica
Sewerage Authority '(hereinafter called SSA) shall be the bene-
ficiary of Part A of the Project, provided, however, that SSA's
jurisdiction and responsibilities shall be extended to cover the
Greater Salonica Area and SSA shall be empowered to establish
sewerage tariffs related to cost and not necessarily representing
a fixed percentage of related water tariffs;
(C) The Borrower has represented to the Bank that it pro-
poses to establish the Water and Sewerage Municipal Organization
for the Greater Volos Area (hereinafter called VWSO) which shall
be the beneficiary of Part B of the Project, and to invest VWSO
with appropriate powers and responsibilities to serve the Greater
Volos Area; and
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower on the conditions here-
inafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Greater Salonica Area" means the metropolitan area of
Salonica, along the shores of Salorica Bay, extending from the
Axios River on the west to the Cape of Mega Emvolon on the southeast
and including municipalities, townships and industrial zones;
(b) "Greater Volos Area" means the area along the shores of
Volos Bay within the administrative boundaries of the municipali-
ties of Volos and Nea lonia and the commune of Dimini including
the industrial estate;


﻿-3-
(c) "Salonica Statutes" means the Borrower's Legislative
Decree No. 787/TO, amended by Law No. 59/75, establishing and
regulating SSA, as may be amended from time to time;
(d) "Volos Statutes" means the Borrower's instrument which
shall establish and regulate VWSO, as may be amended from time
to time;
(e) "Salonica Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (i)
of this Agreement; -
(f) "Volos Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and VWSO pursuant to Section 3.01 Cc)
(ii) of this Agreement;
(g) "MI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior;
(h) "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
(i) "SWA" means the Salonica Water Authority, an organiza-
tion established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Com-
pulsory Law 1563 of 1939;
(j) "Beneficiary" means either SSA or VWSO as the context
may require, and "Beneficiaries" means both SSA and VWSO; and
(k) "Drachma" or "Drachmae" mean the national currency of
the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
six million dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdra-*n from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts C and D
of the Project and shall arrange for SSA and VWSO to carry out,
respectively, through MPW, under agreements accepttbl,e to the Bank,
Parts A and B of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engi-
neering and public utility practices and with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time), and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall make available, out of the proceeds
of the Loan, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank (i) up to the equivalent of $29,500,000 to SSA for
the purpose of financing Part A of the Project and (ii) up to the
equivalent of t6,100,000 to VWSO for the purpose of financing
Part B of the Project, or such other amounts as the Borrower and
the Bank may agree.
(c) The Borrower shall enter into: (i) an agreement with SSA
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Salonica Agreement); and (ii) an agreement
with VWSO on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank (hereinafter called the Volos Agreement). For the
purpose inter alia of making available the proceeds of the Loan
to SSA and VWSO, respectively, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of


﻿this Agreement, the Salonica Agreement and the Volos Agreement shall
each provide for, in respect of each of the Beneficiaries: (1) pay-
ment -f interest at the rate of not less than eight and seventy
hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the principal amount
outstanding, as made available to SSA and VWSO, and (2) repayment
terms of such principal amounts over periods in conformity with
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower specifically undertakes to provide, or cause
to be provided, to each of the Beneficiaries, such funds as shall
be needed for the provision of credit to its respective customers
to cover sewerage connection charges and consumer contributions to
construction costs.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and cause
each of the Beneficiaries to perform all its obligations under the
Salonica Agreement and the Volos Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Salonica Agreement or the Volos Agreement, or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.03. Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree:
(a) for the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause SSA to be staffed with qualified personnel, including
an experienced financial director, in such numbers as shall be
needed to fulfill its purposes; and


﻿-8-
(b) for the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause VWSO to employ, within six months Allowing the estab-
lishment of VWSO as expressed in Recital (C) of the Preamble to
this Agreement, a qualified and experienced general manager, and
to be staffed with qualified personnel in such numbers as shall
be needed to fulfill its purposes.
Section 3.04. Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree:
(a) in order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, not
later than March 31, 1977, engineering consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) in order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; the consultants for Part C (b)
and Part C (d) of the Project shall be employed not later than
June.30, 1977.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of. use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿-9-
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than
June 30, 1977, proposals for (i) the staff training of NI for the
purpose of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and (ii)
the staffing and staff training of the Wastewater and Project
Appraisal Departments of the Water and Wastewater Directorate of
MPW's Hydraulics Division, and thereafter implement said proposals
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to bt
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents, construction, work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) With respect to the construction schedules referred to
in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall, from time to time,
as shall be needed for the purposes of Part A and Part B of the
Project until their completion, furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank updated schedules to be reviewed in consultation with
the Bank.
(c) For the purposes of monitoring, analyzing and evaluating
the results achieved by Parts A and B of the Project, until such
date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, the Borrower shall


﻿-10                                    0
prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on the basis of
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall, and shall cause SSA and VWSO to:
(i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in Parts A
Rnd B of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(e) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all -  nts, installations, sites, works, building:!, property
and equipment of MPW in respect of the Project and of SSA, VWSO
and SWA, and any relevant records and documents, as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, and shall cause SSA and
VWSO to, take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire
as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land, as
shall be ,-equired for the constructi i and operation of the facil-
ities included in Parts A and B of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.ol. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as
security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and (ii) undertakes that, ex-
cept as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on commercial goods to
secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the proceeds
of sale of such commercial goods; or (iv) any lien upon real es-
tate or other property in Greece or revenues or receipts in the
currency of the Borrower, if such lien is given by a political


﻿-12                                    0
subdivision or by an agency of a political subdivision of the Bor-
rower under arrangements or circumstances which would not result
in priority in the allocation or realization of foreign exchange.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any agency of
any such political subdivision or of the Bank of Greece or of any
other institution performing the functions of a central bank.
(e) If the Borrower, because of constitutional or other
legal provisions, shall be unable to make the foregoing effective
with respect to any lien on any assets of a political subdivision
or agency of a political subdivision, the Borrower, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall give to the Bank an equivalent
lien or equivalent priority in the allocation or realization of
foreign exchange, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of the Bene-
ficiaries to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition, including separate records for
water and sewerage operations in the case of VWSO.


﻿- 13 -
(b) The Borrover shall cause each of the Beneficiaries to:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) Upon completion of the studies included in Part C (d) (i)
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause SSA, VWSO and SWA to put
into effect appropriate accounting systems and financial controls,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with the assistance of
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause each of the Benefici-
aries to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.


﻿- i14-
Section 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure
t14;t, upon completion of Part A and Part B of the Project, the
facilities included in Part A and Part B of the Project and all
assets and liabilities relating thereto shall have been transferred
to SSA and VWSO, respectively, for operation and maintenance, and
on terms and conditions which will enable the Borrower to fulfill
its obligations under this Agreement in respect of SSA and VWSO.
Section 4.06. Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure
that: (a) a merger of SSA and SWA shall not take place until com-
pletion of the studies relating to them included in Part C (d) of
the Project; and (b) such merger, if accomplished, shall be on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause SSA to maintain arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank for billing sew-
erage services.
Section 4.08. Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall cause SWA and VWSO: (a) to furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, upon completion of the studies
included in Part C (d) (ii) of the Project, detailed proposals
for the improvement of its respective tariff structures for water
services, taking into consideration all categories of water users;
and (b) promptly thereafter, to establish tariffs based on those
proposals and on such of the Bank's comments as the Borrower my
accept, and to extend water metering to all categories of water
users.


﻿-15
Section 4.09. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause SSA:
(a) to extend by December 1977 its tariff system to all
users of sewerage services including inter alia users supplied
with water from privately owned wells;
(b) promptly after entering into the Salonica Agreement,
to take the steps specified in paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement and to take all necessary measures, including but not
limited to adjustments in its tariffs for sewerage services, as
will ensure that SSA's revenues will be sufficient:
(i) to cover, in any given fiscal year, all SSA's
expenses; and
(ii) to finance the cost of investment in the sewer-
age system operated by SSA in an amount equivalent
to 4% in each of the fiscal years through 1981,
and to 2% in each fiscal year thereafter, of the
net value of fixed assets in operation and under
construction; and
(c) not later than December 31, 1979, to levy, after consul-
tation with the Bank, industrial wastewater surcharges according
to an appropriate schedule.


﻿-16-
Section 4.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall cause VWSO:
(a) to extend by December 1977 its sewerage tariff system
to all users of sewerage services including inter alia such users
supplied with water from privately owned wells and users located
in the industrial estate of the Greater Volos Area;
(b) promptly after entering into the Volos Agreement, to
take the steps specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement and to take all necessary measures, including but not
limited to adjustments in its tariffs for water and sewerage
services, as will ensure that VWSO's revenues will be sufficient:
(i) to cover, in any given fiscal year, all VWSO's
expenses; and
(ii) to finance the cost of investment in the water
and sewerage systems operated by VWSO in an
amount equivalent to 4% in each of the fiscal
years through 1981, and to 1.5% in each fiscal
year thereafter, of the net value of fixed assets
in operation and under construction; and
(c) not later than December 31, 1979, to levy, after consul-
tation with the Bank, industrial wastewater surcharges according
to an appropriate schedule.


﻿-17 -
(d) For the purposes of this Section and of Section 4.09 of
this Agreement:
(i) the term "revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources, including connection charges and
non-industrial consumer contributions to con-
struction costs (but excluding property taxes
in the case of SSA), which relate to the sever-
age operations for SSA and to the water and
sewerage operations for VWSO;
(ii) the term "expenses" means all operating, main-
tenance and administrative expenses (excluding
depreciation); interest and other charges on
debt; repayment of loans (including sinking
fund payments, if any); increase in working
capital other than cash; all taxes, if any,
or payment in lieu of taxes not included in
operating expenses; all dividends and other
distribution of surplus, if any; and
(iii) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation
and under construction" means: (A) the gross value
of fixed assets in operation less accumulated
depreciation, such assets to be valued (for the
first time, not later than December 31, 1977) and
such depreciation to be calculated from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation and depreciation


﻿-18-
acceptable to the Bank; plus (B) the value of fixed
assets under construction.
Section 4.11. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not permit SSA or VWSO to incur any
debt unless the net revenues from the sewerage operations in the
case of SSA or from the sewerage and water operations in the case
of VWSO for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is greater, shall be not less than 1.3 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt,
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt incurred
by others but for the service of which SSA or VWSO is responsible,
and guaranteed debt, maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the day such debt
becomes outstanding and repayable in accordance with the agree-
ment providing for the incurrence of such debt or modifying its
terms of payment; provided, however, that in the case of guaranteed
debt, debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the day the agreement
guaranteeing such debt has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean the difference between
(A) revenues as defined in Section 4.10 (d) (i) of this Agreement,
adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect at the time of the


﻿- 19 -
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the
entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, and (B) all operating and administrative expenses, includ-
ing adequate maintenance and taxes, if any, but before provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time such valuation is made, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtain-
able, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined
by the Bank.
Section 4.12. The Borrower shall ensure that the level of
contamination of the Volos aquifer be determined by adequate moni-
toring, and until such level has been determined, shall not undertake,
or permit VWSO to undertake, except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, any investment for the development of water
supply sources serving the Greater Volos Area (excluding the construc-
tion and operation of Kaliakouda Aqueduct) expected to exceed in the
aggregate three hundred thousand dollars equivalent ($300,000).


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) SSA shall have failed to perform any of its covenants,
agreements o" obligations under the Salonica Agreement;
(b) VWSO shall have failed to perform any of its covenants,
agreements or obligations under the Volos Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SSA or VWSO will be able to perform any
of its respective obligations under the Salonica Agreement or the
Volos Agreement;
(d) a material change shall have been made, without the
prior agreement of the Bank, in the Salonica Statutes, in the
Volos Statutes, or in any legislation or regulation governing
the establishment, organization, powers and operations of SSA
or VWSO so as to affect adversely the Borrower's ability to
carry out the Project, the operations or financial conditions
of SSA or VWSO or the ability of SSA or VWSO to perform its
obligations under the Salonica Agreement or the Volos Agreement;


﻿4121
(e) any debt of SSA or VWSO shall have become due and
payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to the terms there-
of; and
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SSA or VWSO or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c), (e) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 22-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be per-
formed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or
agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or other-
wise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of
the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in this
Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers and rights
in connection therewith, have been performed or given; and
(b) evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to
the Bank that either one of the following sets of events have
occurred, namely:
(i) with respect to SSA: (1) SSA's jurisdiction,
responsibilities and powers have been extended
and modified as expressed in Recital (B) of this
Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank; and (2) the Salonica Agreement has
been duly authorized, executed and delivered in
accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this
Agreement, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and SSA in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-23-
(ii) with respect to VWSO: (1) VWSO has been estab-
lished as expressed in Recital (C) of this Agree-
ment, in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank; and (2) the Volos Agreement has been duly
authorized, executed and delivered in accordance
with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and VWSO in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional qat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-,
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that all acts, consents and approvals referred
to in Section 6.01 (a) together-with all necessary powers and
*erights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed
or given and that no other acts, consents or approvals are required
in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to en-
able the Borrower to perform all of the covenants, agreements and
obligations in the Loan Agreement contained.
Section 6.03. The date June 3, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Athens, Greece
With a copy to:
The Ministry of Coordination
Athens, Greece
Telex address:
216326YSYNGR
Athens, Greece
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6415 (wUI)


﻿-25-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE HELLENIC STATE
By /s/ Menelaos Alexandrakis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-26                                          0
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil works and                             24% (representing
materials                                   the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(a) Part A of the         12,570,000
Project
(b) Part B of the          3,300,000
Project
(2) Equipment                                   100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory)
(a) Part A of the        13,420,000
Project
(b) Part B of the         1,830,000
Project
(c) Part C of the            90,000
Project


﻿-27-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(3) Consultants' ser-                            100% of foreign
vices                                       expenditures
(a) Part A of the          2,190,000
Project
(b) Part B of the            630,000
Project,
(c) Part C of the            290,000
Project
(4) Staff training                 50,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 1,630,000
TOTAL      36,000,000


﻿- 28-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not


﻿S- -29 -
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may be made in respect of
Categories (2) (c) and (3) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1976;
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Part A of
the Project if evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the occurrence
of the set of events specified in Section 6.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement has not been furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1978 in
respect of SSA in the case of such Part A; and
(c) payments made for expenditures in respect of Part B of
the Project if evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the occurrence
of the set of events specified in Section 6.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement has not been furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1978 in
respect of VWSO in the case of such Part B.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category or sub-Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or sub-Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or sub-Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category or sub-Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the


﻿- 30-
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category or sub-Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category or sub-Category is inconsis-
tent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank
under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-31-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop the
sewerage sector through investments in the Greater Salonica and
Volos Areas, the establishment and operation of regional sewerage
authorities, and the development of appropriate technical, pollu-
tion control, financial and administrative policies and practices.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Greater Salonica Area Sewerage Program
The first phase of the program for the construction
and rehabilitation of the Greater Salonica sewerage sys-
tem consisting of the following:
(a) installation of about 65 km of secondary severs,
about 17 km of trunk and force mains, and 3 pumping
stations, to serve the coastal area of the city of
Salonica and the Lagadas and ESSO industrial zones;
(b) installation of about 8 km of gravity interceptors,
about 1 km of force mains, and 3 pumping stations,
to intercept the trunk mains discharging into the
inner Salonica Bay;
(c) construction of about 25 km of the main interceptor
between the White Tower area and the Axios River;


﻿- 32-
(d) construction of a primary treatment plant with an
initial capacity of about 3.9 cubic meters per
second; and
(e) purchase and utilization of equipment for sever
inspection and maintenance.
Part B:   Greater Volos Area Sewerage Program
The first phase of the program for the construction and
rehabilitation of the Greater Volos sewerage system con-
sisting of the following:
(a) installation of about 113 km of secondary severs,
about 18 km of trunk and force mains, and 5 pumping
stations, to serve the area of the city of Volos,
Alykes Beach and the industrial estate;
(b) construction of a pre-treatment plant with an ini-
tial capacity of about 0.44 cubic meter per sec-
ond;
(c) installation of a collector of about 4 km to carry
wastewater from the industrial estate to the pre-
treatment plant; and
(d) construction of a temporary effluent pumping station,
a final interceptor of about 8 km and an ocean out-
fall of about 0.7 km at Cape Agistri, to discharge
pre-treated wastewater into the Thermaikos Gulf.


﻿-33-
Part C:   Studies
(a) feasibility studies for the Mega Ewolon severage
system in the Greater Salonica Area;
(b) industrial wastewater surveys in the Greater Salon-
ica Area and the Greater Volos Area;
(c) oceanographic studies of the Thermaikos and Pagasi-
tikos Gulfs; and
(d) studies relating to SSA, SWA and VWSO to: (i) re-
view and put into effect accounting systems and
financial controls; and (ii) review tariff struc-
tures.
Part D:   Training
The provision of about 18 man-months for overseas
training of NW and MPW senior staff.
T         *         *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 34 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1980
through November 1, 1991                      1,500,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-35-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.75%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                            3.50%
More than six years but not
*                   more than eleven years
before maturity                            6.40%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                      7.55%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                            8.70%


﻿- 36-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods and for civil works shall
be grouped to the extent practicable after consultation with the
Bank.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A and B of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or less and contracts for equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less may be awarded
on the basis of local advertising and competitive bidding proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank; foreign firms shall be entitled to
submit bids.


﻿-37 -
2.   Minor works for Parts A and B of the Project, such as service
connections and rehabilitation or replacement of secondary severs,
may be carried out by SSA and VWSO, under arrangements acceptable
to the Bank, provided, however, that the cost of works under Parts
A and B of the Project to be so carried out shall not exceed in
the aggregate the equivalent of $450,000 and $550,000, respectively.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Greece may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿-38-
.     (b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Greece
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Greece equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Greece.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿-39 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequAlification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from,
or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and (ii) equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:


﻿(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of
the consultants referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿*                           -41 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿SCHEDULE 5
Organization and Administration
1. The responsibilities and functions of the Wastewater Depart-
ment and Project Appraisal Department of the Water and Wastewater
Directorate of MPW's Hydraulics Division shall be as follows:
(a) The Wastewater Department shall inter alia be responsible
for:
(i) issuing and maintaining up-to-date guidelines and
specifications covering the design and construction
of sewerage systems;
(ii) reviewing and approving feasibility studies and
final designs of major sewerage projects and all
wastewater treatment and disposal facilities;
(iii) preparing, in cooperation with other competent ser-
vices of the Borrower, draft regulations on water
quality criteria and discharges of liquid industrial
wastes;
(iv) providing technical assistance, guidance and train-
ing to sewerage authorities;
(v) establishing, in consultation with the Institute of
Oceanography and Fishing Research (IOKAE), the pro-
gram of work to be conducted by IOKAE within the
sewerage sector, including:


﻿- 43 -
(A) preliminary surveys of water bodies used or
intended to be used for wastewater disposal;
(B) monitoring of water quality of water bodies
receiving important wastewater discharges; and
(vi) advising on water pollution aspects of relevant
industrial projects.
(b) The Project Appraisal Department shall inter alia be
responsible for:     -
(i) reviewing proposals for major water supply and
wastewater investments and advising on their finan-
cial, economic and operational feasibility;
(ii) advising on the likely costs of implementing various
proposals for industrial water pollution control
regulations; and
(iii) to the extent not provided by other competent agen-
cies of the Borrower, providing guidance to water
supply and sewerage authorities on financial policies,
accounting procedures and water supply and sewerage
tariffs.
2.   MI shall be responsible for providing guidance to water and
sewerage authorities within its jurisdiction on financial policies,
accounting procedures and water supply and sewerage tariffs.


﻿-44-
3.   The Borrower shall staff the Wastewater and Project Appraisal
Departments referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule with per-
sonnel having the appropriate expertise and in such numbers as re-
quired to perform their responsibilities and functions. The Bor-
rower's intent is that by June 30, 1978, in addition to sufficient
supporting staff, the professional staff of those Departments will
consist of experts in various fields such as environmental engineer-
ing, economics, financial analysis and accounting.
4.   In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause SSA's and VWSO's staff to be attached to the appropriate
MPW departments and services in order to be trained in the super-
vision of design and construction of the collection systems
(secondary networks, trunk and force mains, interceptors and
pumping stations) under the direction of MNW.
5.   The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) by June 1977, the Wastewater Department referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall assume primary responsibility
for the carrying out of the Project;
(b) by June 1978, SSA's and VWSO's staff shall have been
selected and shall be attached to such Wastewater Department and
other MPW services working on the Project;
(c) by 1982, when Parts A and B of the Project are expected
to be completed, SSA and VWSO shall be responsible for the oper-
ation and maintenance of their respective sewerage systems.


﻿045-
6.   With reference to Section 4.02 and Section 4.03 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrover shall ensure that MPW's relevant records
be made available to SSA and VWSO in order for them to maintain
adequate records reflecting their operations and financial condi-
tions thus facilitating the transfer of facilities included in
Parts A and B of the Project and all assets and liabilities relating
thereto, as required by Section 4.05 of this Agreement.


﻿-46-
SCHEDULE 6
Tariffs
1.   SSA
The Borrower shall ensure that SSA shall, within three months
after entering into the Salonica Agreement, adjust its sewerage
tariff such as to charge an average amount of not less than 4.00
Drachmae per cubic meter of water supplied to sever users. In case
that SSA's sewerage tariff provides for different unit charges for
various categories of sever user, the calculation of SSA's aver-
age sewerage tariff shall be weighted according to the volume of
water supplied to each category of sever user.
Thereafter, it is expected that SSA's average sewerage tariff
shall require further adjustments as tollows:
Drachmae per cubic meter
Fiscal Year                             (approximately)
1978                                           5.5
1979                                           7.0
1980                                          9.0
1981                                          12.0
1982                                          13.0
2.   VWSO
The Borrower shall ensure that VWSO shall, within three months
after entering into the Volos Agreement, increase by an average of
at least 45% its tariffs for water and sewerage services in force
as of the date of this Agreement.


﻿-47
Thereafter, it is expected that VWSO's average water and sew-
erage tariffs shall require further adjustments as follows:
Drachmae per cubic meter
(approximately)
Fiscal Year                  Water         Sewerage
1978                     9.6                3.8
1979                    10.1                4.0
1980                    10.1               11.5
1981                    10.4               14.o
1982                    10.9               14.0


