Report No. 1708a-BO                                                                      t         c  C  04
Appraisal of
Ulla Ulla Development Project
Bolivia
December 27, 1977
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENT EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = $b 20.00
$b 1.00 = US$0.05
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACE        -  Agricultural Credit and Extension Division of INFOL
ASI        -  Agricultural and Social Infrastructure Division of INFOL
BAB        -  Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
BE         -  State Bank
COMBOFLA   -  Bolivian Committee for Promotion of Wool
COMPRO     -  Marketing and Processing Division
CORDEPAZ   -  Regional Cooperative for Division of La Paz
DESEC      -  Center for Social and Economic Development
DPH        -  Department of Public Health of University of
San Andres
FOMEX      -  Export Promotion Division
FOMO       -  National Manpower Development Services
FORNO      -  Private Company for Processing Wool
FOTRAMA    -  Alpaca Wool Processing and Marketing Company
IBTA       -  Bolivian Institute for Agricultural Technology
IDB        -  Inter-American Development Bank
IDIF       -  Physic Research Institute of the University
of San Andres
INBOPIA    -  National Institute for Handicrafts and Small
Industry
INFOL      -  National Institution for the Development of Wool
MPAA       -  Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture
MPSSP      -  Ministry of Social Security and Public Health
NCSA       -  National Council for Social Action
OAS        -  Organization of America States
PM         -  Planning and Monitoring Division
SNC        -  National Roads Services
SNDC       -  National Community Development Service
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . ........... ...................   i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION         ...................... ...............
II.   BACKGROUND ..............1......................... 
A.   General .........                    ..       ...           1
B.   Agriculture and the Rural Sector             ............   2
C.   Wool Textile Industry ................                      7
D.   Handicraft Industry .........................              10
E.   Project Area            ................................   12
III.   THE PROJECT   ......................................             14
A.   Brief Description ................ ...........             14
B.   Detailed Features ...........................    15
C.   Cost Estimates ... .............   ............ .    19
D.   Financing ............. ....... .... ....................    21
E.   Procurement   ....................................    22
F.   Disbursement . .. .......... ....*............            23
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................         ...    24
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, AND
PRODUCER BENEFITS ......         ........................    30
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION             .......................    33
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ..           .........    36
Schedule A - Lending Terms and Conditions ....... .    40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bolivia in March, 1977. Members of the mission were Messrs. N.P. Sharma
(LCPA2), E. Ruderfer (LC2DE), Ms. D. Babelon and Messrs. C. Plaza (LCPA2),
B. Kanchanalak (AGPOP), and S. Miquel (LCPHW), and R. Levy, J. Villarroel,
E. Franco, 0. Echeverri, and W. Minto (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Page No.
1.  Research and Extension Component ......................   43
Table 1  -  List of Measuring Devices and Equipment -
Irrigation System - Investment Costs ..  49
Table 2  -  Project Facilities - Investment Costs  ..  50
Table 3  -  Project Facilities *.....................    51
Table 4  -  Irrigation System       .......................   52
Table 5  -  Commercial Farm .....     ....................    53
Table 6  -  Commercial Farm - Alpaca Herd -
Herd Projection .................. .....   54
Table 7  -  Commercial Farm - Llama Herd -
Herd  Projection  ............................ .  55
Table 8  -  Commercial Farm - Alpaca/Llama -
Production Projection .................   56
Table 9  -  Commercial Farm - Alpaca/Llama (2,500 ha) -
Sales and Operating Costs .......... ...   57
Table 10 -  Commercial Farm - Alpaca/Llama (2,500 ha) -
Cash Flow Projections .................   58
Appendix 1 - Consultants' Terms of Reference .........   59
2.  Livestock Development (Alpaca/Llama) ...................   61
A.  Project Area ...........................    ....... .   61
B.  Livestock in the Project Area .............. ......    64
C.  Livestock Development under the Project ..........   66
Table 1  -  Farm Model No. 1 - 100-Alpaca Herd
(1 or 2 families) - Investment Costs     70
Table 2  -  Farm Model No. I - 100-Alpaca Herd
(1 or 2 families) - Herd Projection ...    71
Table 3  -  Farm Model No. 1 - 100-Alpaca Herd
(1 or 2 families) - Production
Projection   ............................  72
Table 4  -  Farm Model No. 1 - 100-Alpaca Herd
(1 or 2 families) - Production Value
and Operating Costs ................. ..   73
Table 5  -  Farm Model No. 1 - 100-Alpaca Herd
(1 or 2 families) - Cash Flow
Projection   ..... .................... ...  74
Table 6  -  Farm Model No. 2 - 400-Alpaca Herd
(5 families) - Investment Costs   .......   75
Table 7  -  Farm Model No. 2 - 400-Alpaca Herd
(5 families) - Herd Projection ........   76
Table 8  -  Farm Model No. 2 - 400-Alpaca Herd
(5 families) - Production Projection     77
Table 9  -  Farm Model No. 2 - 400-Alpaca Herd
(5 families) - Production Value and
Operating  Costs   .......................  78



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Page No.
Table 10 -  Farm Model No. 2 - 400-Alpaca Herd
(5 families) - Cash Flow Projection       79
Table 11  -  Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000-Alpaca Herd
(12 families) - Investment Costs          80
Table 12 -  Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000-Alpaca Herd
(12 families) - Herd Projection .......   81
Table 13 -  Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000-Alpaca Herd
(12 families) - Production Projection     82
Table 14 -  Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000-Alpaca Herd
(12 families) - Production Value and
Operating Costs . ............. .........    83
Table 15 -  Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000-Alpaca Herd
(12 families) - Cash Flow Projection      84
Table 16 -  Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000-Alpaca Herd
(55 families) - Investment Costs ......   85
Table 17 -  Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000-Alpaca Herd
(55 families) - Herd Projection .......   86
Table 18 -  Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000-Alpaca Herd
(55 families) - Production Projection     87
Table 19 -  Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000-Alpaca Herd
(55 families) - Production Value and
Operating Costs .... .................... ..   88
Table 20 -  Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000-Alpaca Herd
(55 families) - Cash Flow Projection      89
Table 21  -  Financial Analysis - Rates of Return and
Sensitivity Testing ....*...............   90
Table 22  -  Alpaca, Llama, Vicuna - Estimated
Production Projection .................   91
Table 23 -  Total Lending Program ..* ................   92
Table 24 -  Phasing of the Lending Program ..........   93
Chart 1  -  No. 17641 - Farm Management Schedule 
3.  Vicuna Conservation and Development Component    .........   95
Table 1  -  Investment and Recurrent Cash Costs .....     99
4.  Wool Collection, Storage and Processing Component .....    100
I.  Background ........................................  100
II.  Wool Collection, Storage and Processing
under  the  Project  .............. ................  105
Table 1  -  Bolivia - Prices paid by COMBOFLA
for Alpaca Fiber  ......................  113
Table 2  -  Peru - FOB Prices, First Quality
Raw Fiber (Greasy) ................... .   113
Table 3  -  Processing Plant - Volume of Raw Material
Processed   ... ................ .........   .  114



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES                                                              Page No.
Table 4   -   Processing Plant - Alpaca Raw Material
Available ................................   115
Table 5   -   Incremental Costs .......         ................   116
Table 6   -   Project Costs .................    ..........   117
Table 7   -   Equipment ........ . . .  ......  ...................... .   118
Table 8   -   Direct and Indirect Labor and Annual
Cost   ..................................     119
Table 9   -   Technical and Administrative Personnel
and Cost ...............      ...............   120
Table 10  -   Processing Plant - Investment Costs   .....  121
Table 11  -   Income Statement .....      . ..................   122
Table 12  -   Financial Rate of Return ..... ...........    124
Table 13  -   Cash Flow Projection ......         ..............   125
Chart I   -   No. 17639 - Proposed Production Flow for
the Plant ...............
Chart 2   -   No. 17640 - Implementation Schedule.
5.   Handicraft Component ..................................   128
A.   Background .... ...................................   128
B.   Handicraft Component ...........         ..................   130
Table 1   -   Investment Costs .....          ...................   135
Table 2   -   Credit to Artisans - Total Lending
Program   ...     .....................   .......  136
Table 3   -   Handicraft Model No. 1 - One Family of 2
to 3 Artisans - Cash Flow Projection          137
Table 4   -   Handicraft Model No. 2 - Group of 30
Artisans - Cash Flow Projection .......   138
Table 5   -   Handicraft Model No. 1 - One Family of 2
to 3 Artisans - Sales and Operating
Costs .............       ....................   139
Table 6   -   Handicraft Model No. 2 - Group of 30
Artisans - Sales and Operating Costs          140
Table 7   -   FOMO - Total Costs .......... .. ..........   141
Table 8   -   INBOPIA - Total Costs ....         ...............   142
Table 9   -   Phasing of the Lending Program ......... .   143
6.   Road Component .......        .................................   144
Table 1   -   Suggested Design Standards ....        ..........   146
Table 2   -   Equipment Investment Cost           ...............   147
Table 3   -   Total Costs .............................   148
Chart 1   -   No. 17846 - Implementation Schedule
7.   Health Component ....................     .....................   150
I.   Background .......     ................................   150
II.   Project Health Facilities .................     .....      152
Table 1   -   Investment and Operating Cost Phasing ....   157



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Page No.
8.   Water Supply and Human Waste Disposal Systems ... ......  158
Table 1   -   Details of Cost Estimates for Hand-pump
Well   .............. ..   ..................  162
Table 2   -   Pit Privy System - Investment Costs .....    163
Table 3   -   Water Supply - Total Costs ..............   164
Table 4   -   Waste Disposal (Pit Privies) - Total
Costs         ................................ .  165
9.   Education Component ....................    ...............   166
Table 1   -   Estimated Enrollment 1976-81 ....        ........   170
Table 2   -   Basic Education Schools - Costs of
Construction and Furnishing .       ..........  171
Table 3   -   Intermediate School (Ulla Ulla) - Costs of
Construction, Furniture and Equipment .   172
Table 4   -   Total Costs .............................   173
Chart I   -   No. 17845 - Implementation Schedule
10.   Women's Participation Component .............     ..........   175
I.   Introduction .....................................   175
II.   Participation of Women under the Project .... .....  177
Table I   -   Total Costs .............................   179
11.   Technical Assistance ..................................   180
A.   Llama Fiber Dehairing Research ....         ...............   180
B.   Solar Energy .....................................   183
Table I   -   Llama Fiber Dehairing Research -
Suggested Specification for Pilot
Processing Plant ......................   186
Table 2   -   Llama Fiber Dehairing Research - Costs of
Machinery, Equipment and Laboratory
Facilities   ............................     187
Table 3   -   Llama Fiber Dehairing Research -
Total Costs ...........................   189
Table 4   -   Solar Energy - Investment Costs .... .....  190
12.   Project Administration .....        ...........................   191
Table 1   -   National Institution for the Development
of Wool (INFOL) - Total Cost .... ......   198
Table 2   -   Project Staff ...........................   199
Chart 1   -   No. 17638 - The National Institution for
the Development of Wool (INFOL) .......
Appendix 1 -  Terms of Reference for the Administration
and Management Expert ....       .............   201



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Page No.
13.   Investment Cost Phasing ...................     ............   202
14.   Table I - Total Project Costs .....        ....................   203
Table 2 - Detailed Project Costs .................     ....   204
15.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement ....................   205
16.   Project Cash Flow .......... ...........................   206
17.   Chart No. 17847 - Implementation Schedule
18.   Economic Analysis ......... .....................  .......   208
A.   Economic Values of Labor and Goods ...............   208
B.   Economic Rates of Return  .........................   209
Table 1   -   Summary of Calculations ....         .............   214
Appendix 1 -  Llama Dehairing Research - Economic
Rate of Return ...         .....................   215
Table 1   -   Llama Dehairing Technology - Production
Mix of the Processing Plant ..........    .   216
Table 2   -   Llama Dehairing Technology - Economic
Rate of Return - Summary ...... ........   217
Map No. 12907



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an integrated rural development project
for which an IDA credit of US$9 million and a Bank loan of US$9 million
equivalent are proposed to finance continued development of Bolivia's
Altiplano begun under the Ingavi Rural Development Project (Loan 1211-BO).
The proposed project would provide critical assistance to families living in
the Ulla Ulla region of the Altiplano where Bolivia's poverty is most severe
and widespread. About 70% of Bolivia's estimated population of about 5.6
million lives in rural areas with a per capita income of US$60 to US$100.
The Altiplano and the valleys, which account for about 30% of the national
territory, contain about 85% of the rural population. Deep-rooted cultural
ties have inhibited Altiplano inhabitants from migrating in large numbers to
the more prosperous regions of the east. While commercial agriculture in the
tropical eastern lowlands has been growing rapidly, the small farm subsistence
sector concentrated in the Altiplano (3,000-4,500 meter) has stagnated.
Agriculture in the Altiplano is based on the cultivation of a few crops, such
as quinoa, oats, barley, beans and potatoes, and on raising livestock, mostly
llamas, alpacas, sheep and cattle.
ii.       There is little scope for expanding land under cultivation and
the extremely small-scale farm operations (less than 6 ha) and low soil
fertility in the Altiplano have kept production at low levels. However,
the potential for livestock has not been fully exploited yet. Bolivia's
efforts to develop alpaca and llama for wool production, as a source of
foreign exchange and as an additional income and employment source for the
rural poor, are deficient and lag far behind the intensive programs under-
taken in Peru. Alpaca and llama fiber production has been low, and programs
to improve alpaca and llama breeds for their high value wool have been con-
fined to only small-scale research programs.
iii.      The Government has outlined its strategy for agricultural and
rural development in the recent National Development Plan, which emphasizes
the reduction of the country's dependence on imported foodstuffs and the
alleviation of acute poverty and underemployment in the Altiplano. For
the latter, agricultural investment would be directed toward integrated
rural development projects to provide basic social services, infrastruc-
ture, marketing, credit, and extension services to increase productivity.
iv.       The Government has modest expectations concerning development
efforts in the Altiplano. It recognizes the difficulties in bringing about
an orderly development of the region, which is endowed with limited resources
and harsh conditions and where the population has in the past been less
receptive to change and is to some extent suspicious and unapproachable.
Implementation of rural development projects in the Altiplano would imply
taking more than the usual risks, particularly since the results obtained



- ii -
by other institutions in this region have been mediocre and to some extent
inconclusive. Despite these constraints, there have been some positive
changes recently in the attitude and ideals of the Altiplano rural poor
toward social and economic changes. Communities have become more sensitive
to progress and indicate strong desires to participate in the development
process. This, in addition to the Government's new determination and declared
commitment to engendering development in the Altiplano, could be the over-
riding factors insofar as the success of rural development projects in the
Altiplano is concerned.
v.        To date, IDA/Bank financing for agriculture has amounted to US$27.2
million which has been used to assist the Government to initiate a long-term
program for the development of a viable livestock industry in the lowlands,
to increase agricultural production and to improve living conditions on the
Altiplano, as well as to strengthen the Banco Agricola as a development
institution.
vi.       The proposed project would emphasize the alpaca/llama agri-business
complex, integrating diverse components into a single development scheme begin-
ning with production of the raw material and including processing to semi-
finished products and conversion to handicrafts and their marketing. The
project would also improve the environmental and social conditions in the
Ulla Ulla region. In addition, the project would have substantial impact
on institution building. The National Institution for the Development of Wool
(INFOL), the newly created institution for regulating the growth of the wool
textile industry, and the National Institute for Small Industries and Handi-
crafts (IMBOPIA), for the development of the handicraft industry, would be
strengthened under the project.
vii.      Specifically, the proposed project would finance an Experiment
Station for the execution of a research program for the development of alpaca
and llama herds and a commercial farm to serve as a demonstration unit and
to establish farmer confidence and trust in the development program. The
project would provide farmers with technical and veterinary services and
credit to about 2,500 farm families for on-farm investments and herd develop-
ment, and would make provision for the establishment of a pricing mechanism to
provide incentive to farm_rs and artisans to increase production and reduce
the illegal flow of alpaca fiber into Peru. The project would also expand and
strengthen the conservation program for vicunas and would finance the expan-
sion and improvement of the wool collection system, a new centrally located
warehouse and a new processing plant. In addition, the project would include
credit for the wool handicraft industry for about 3,400 families, mostly in
rural areas, and would improve the living conditions of about 3,000 families in
the project area through provision of health and education centers, drinking
water and waste disposal facilities, and improved roads.
viii.     The proposed project would also include several innovative fea-
tures. Through a technical assistance component, the project would finance
development of a llama fiber dehairing technique to increase production of
llama fiber and to utilize more fully the 2.2 million llamas now available
in Bolivia. It would also finance the preparation of solar energy devices,
for use in the rural areas of the Altiplano where this energy is an impor-
tant natural resource. In addition, concerted efforts would be directed



- iii -
toward women in the project area through provision of technical assistance
to improve and develop basic skills and to increase productivity.
ix.       The Government places high priority on the project, which is in line
with the Government's strategy to improve the economic and social conditions
of the rural poor of the Altiplano. The proposed project, with the Ingavi
Rural Development Project (Loan 1211-BO), would provide the basis for a long-
range program to develop the Altiplano.
x.        The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$24 million,
of which US$9 million, or 38%, represents the foreign exchange component.
The proposed IDA credit (US$9 million) and Bank loan (US$9 million) for the
project would finance US$18 million, equivalent to 75% of the total project
costs. The IDA/Bank funds would cover 100%, or US$9 million, of the foreign
exchange costs and 60%, or US$9 million, of local costs. The Commission of
the European Community has agreed to participate in the project and will
provide a grant equivalent to about US$2 million to finance local expenditures.
The Government would provide the remainder of the funds (US$4 million, or 17%
of total project costs) and would be committed to continuing contribution of
funds after project completion. The beneficiaries would not make any financial
contribution; however, they would make a labor contribution in kind to project
works valued at US$160,000. Also, the beneficiaries would contribute about
4,000 ha for the establishment of project facilities in the project area.
xi.       Local cost financing is justified in Bolivia in view of the country's
poverty and its intensive efforts to mobilize domestic savings and also
because of the importance of the project to the Government's overall strategy
in engendering development in the Altiplano.
xii.      The project would be administered by INFOL, the newly created
institution under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry for the development of the wool industry. The
Agricultural and Social Infrastructure Division (ASI) of INFOL would be
directly responsible for project execution. For the handicraft, solar energy,
physical infrastructure components (roads, health, education, and water and
waste disposal facilities), INFOL would enter into operational agreements with
each respective participating agency.
xiii.     Sub-loan terms would range up to 10 years, including grace periods
of up to four years, at an interest rate of 12% on outstanding subloan
balances.  New equipment for the processing plant, road construction and
maintenance equipment, and vehicles would be awarded through international
competitive bidding according to Bank procedures. Also, tender packages for
laboratory equipment, commercial farm equipment, and equipment for schools,
health and project administration, water and waste disposal facilities, solar
energy and handicrafts in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be procured
through international competitive bidding according to Bank procedures.
Since some of the equipment for llama dehairing research facilities would be
second-hand, procurement would be through negotiations acceptable to IDA/Bank.
Procurement of most farm inputs would be made by farmers through normal



- iv -
commercial channels because of the size and timing of individual purchases.
Road work would be undertaken by the National Roads Service (SNC) on force
account. Civil works for health centers, schools, trading posts and storage
facilities, processing plant, dehairing research facilities, and project unit
facilities would be carried out through local competitive bidding, acceptable
to IDA/Bank.
xiv.      Financial rates of return for alpaca livestock development have
been estimated to range from 30% to 100%, and for the handicraft development
the financial rates of return have been estimated at over 100%. The overall
economic rate of return of the project is 25%, excluding the social infra-
structure and technical assistance components. The economic rate of return
for the livestock development component is 18%, the cost of which is US$5.1
million; 30% for wool collection, storage and processing, the cost of which
is US$4.9 million; and 70% for handicraft component, the cost of which is
US$3.0 million.
xv.       The wool textile industry as a whole would benefit from the project
through improvement of research, extension and farming systems at the produc-
tion level; improvement and expansion of marketing infrastructure; moderni-
zation of the processing facilities; and development of llama dehairing
technology. The handicraft industry would also benefit through provision
of credit and technical assistance. Annual incremental production of alpaca
fiber at full development would be about 330 m tons and yarn production would
amount to 250 m tons, including 190 m tons of alpaca yarn. Also, at full
development, the annual incremental value of handicraft items is estimated
at US$6.4 million. The project would be directly responsible for the employ-
ment of 290 persons and would substantially reduce underemployment in the
project area and of artisans in the rural area. Beneficiaries in the project
area are in the poverty group, and, under project conditions, it is expected
that the average farm family income based on livestock activity would increase
from less than US$100 to US$896 at full development (12 years). Likewise,
a typical artisan family with three of its members actively engaged in making
alpaca/llama/sheep wool-based handicraft items could earn a cash family income
of about US$1,800. Other benefits would include improved environmental and
social conditions in the project area.
xvi.      During negotiations appropriate assurances were obtained that provide
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$9 million and a Bank loan of US$9 mil-
lion at standard terms for Bolivia. The Government would be the borrower and
would bear the foreign exchange risk involved.
December 8, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA credit of US$9
million and a Bank loan of US$9 million to help finance a second integrated
development project in the Altiplano. The proposed project would provide
critical assistance to families living in the Ulla Ulla region of the Altiplano,
where Bolivia's poverty is most severe and widespread. It would emphasize the
alpaca/llama agri-business complex, integrating diverse components into a
single development scheme, beginning with production of raw material, its
processing to semi-finished products, conversion to handicrafts, and marketing.
In addition, the project would include development of solar energy in the
Altiplano and a conservation program for vicunas. The Government places high
priority on the proposed project, which is in line with the Government's
strategy to improve the economic and social condition of the rural poor of the
Altiplano. The pertinent feasibility studies were prepared by the Organization
of American States (OAS) with Bank assistance.
1.02      To date, the Bank has made 11 loans and IDA has granted 10 credits
to Bolivia for total amounts of US$212.0 million and US$60.3 million, net of
cancellations, respectively. The largest portion of the financing, 36%,
has been for transportation, with 20% going for power, 10% for mining and
industry, 9% for a gas pipeline, 6% for urban development, 5% for education,
and 4% for water supply. The remaining 10%, US$27.2 million, has been
directed to agriculture to assist the Government in initiating long-term
development of a viable livestock industry, increasing agricultural produc-
tion, and improving living conditions on the Altiplano, as well as strengthen-
ing the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia as a development institution.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Bolivia has maintained a favorable economic and financial position
during the 1971-76 period, with real GDP increasing steadily at an average
annual rate of 6%. Following a similar trend, per capita GNP increased from
US$197 in 1973 to US$320 in 1975, but it continues to be one of the lowest
in the hemisphere. The sustained economic growth can be attributed to the
continued political stability, better management of public institutions and
the economy, an increase in hydrocarbon prices, and the growing domestic
savings and greatly increased capital flows. However, a high incidence of
poverty in rural areas and the lagging growth rate in domestic agriculture
remain serious problems.



- 2 -
2.02      Bolivia's population is estimated at about 5.6 million, 70% of
whom live in rural areas where per capita income ranges between US$60
and US$100. The Altiplano and the valleys, which jointly account for
abo-- 30% of the national territory, contain about 85% of the rural popu-
lation.  Income distribution remains skewed.  This disparity is reflected
in the fact that the lower 40% of the population accounts for only 13%
of the total income, compared to the 36% of the national income enjoyed
by the top 5% of the population. The poorest segment consists largely of
small farmers and agricultural laborers engaged in subsistence agriculture.
2.03      The Government is well aware of the major impediments to develop-
r-ent and has consequently directed its efforts towards mobilization of domestic
resources and preparation of a national development program. However, success-
ful implementation of this program is contingent upon the availability of sub-
stantial external assistance.
B. Agriculture and the Rural Sector
2.04      Agriculture accounts for 21% of GDP and provides employment for over
50% of the country's labor force. Agricultural exports in 1976, mainly sugar,
cotton, coffee, timber and beef, amounted to US$73.5 million, or about 12%
of the total export value, while food imports amounted to US$56.2 million,
accounting for 10% of total merchandise imports. Although commercial agri-
culture in the tropical eastern lowlands has been growing rapidly, the small
farm subsistence sector concentrated in the Altiplano region has stagnated.
Regional imbalances appear to be pronounced largely because of the disparities
in growth potentials, the level and pattern of agricultural development, and
the extent to which each region has attracted resources and governmental
support.
2.05      Agriculture in the Altiplano (3,000-4,500 meter) is based on the
cultivation of a few crops, such as quinoa, oats, barley, beans and potatoes,
and on raising livestock, mostly llamas, alpacas, sheep and cattle, but the
extremely small scale of farm operations, low soil fertility, and harsh envi-
ronmental conditions have kept production at low levels. There is admittedly
little scope for expanding land under cultivation but the potential of live-
stock has not yet been fully exploited (para 2.19). Agricultural production
is further deterred by outdated technology and low factor productivity,
limited skilled manpower, inadequate factor and product markets, and lack of
access to agricultural credit, especially long-term credit to finance agri-
cultural infrastructure and inputs, for a very large segment of producers.
The problem is further compounded by the lack of viable farmer organizations,
adequate infrastructure, and supporting services.
2.06      In contrast, the farmers and ranchers of the modern export-oriented
agriculture, which is confined to the Santa Cruz and Beni regions, have large
farm holdings and enjoy substantial financial support from the Government as
well as from the private sector. Modern techniques are used, especially in
the mechanized production of cotton and sugarcane in Santa Cruz, and marketing
arrangements and support services are better developed and established.



Rural Poor and Government's Development Efforts
2.07      Bolivia's rural poor are mainly small farmers living under subsis-
tence conditions, mostly in the Altiplano. The high incidence of poverty
can be linked directly to the sizeable small-farm sector which is plagued
by low productivity, a traditional technological base, underemployed resources,
and a disproportionately small share of agriculture growth and development.
Other rural poverty problems are (a) a high infant mortality rate (250 per
1,000 live births); (b) high adult illiteracy (85% - only 4% complete primary
school); (c) malnutrition and a life expectancy of about 45 years; (d) a
language problem since a high proportion of the rural population speak only
Aymara or Quechua; and (e) inadequate infrastructure and services. However,
with all these handicaps, deep-rooted cultural ties have inhibited Altiplano
inhabitants from migrating in large number to the more prosperous eastern
regions, which argues for a rigorous policy to expand employment opportunities
to occupy the growing labor force.
2.08      Bolivia's efforts to ameliorate rural, social, and economic condi-
tions will be vastly influenced by economic dualism in the rural sector,
i.e., large farm operators and a preponderance of small-scale farmers, each
with different needs and problems. There is evidence that productivity and
the living standards of the rural poor would be improved considerably,
provided the Government takes a number of essential measures, including
(a) preparing and executing investment programs and establishing a proper
institutional framework to execute such programs in the Altiplano and
-valleys; (b) channeling adequate credit and technical assistance to small
farmers in support of such programs; (c) organizing small landholders into
cooperatives or other functional groups; and (d) conducting research to
develop appropriate crop varieties for the climatic conditions of the
Altiplano and valleys.
2.09      Recently, the Government has begun to channel more financial and
human resources to small farmers, and it has also taken steps to reform
pertinent institutions and improve sector management capabilities. To this
end, the Ministries of Agriculture and Peasant Affairs were merged in 1974,
and a special office to coordinate all the development activities on the
Altiplano was established with the assistance of the UNDP. Assistance has
also come in the form of external financing for agricultural and rural
development, which has been increasing steadily, with IDB, USAID and the
World Bank being principal donors. USAID is considering the possibility
of providing technical assistance for the improvement of the Ministry's
effectiveness in the formulation of policies, sector planning, and coordina-
tion and supervision of investment programs. It is also providing tech-
nical and financial assistance to the National Community Development Services
(SNDC) to expand its role beyond its present involvement in infrastructure
projects only. A reorganization study for the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
(BAB), aimed at improving the efficiency of this institution, is being
financed under Credit 261-BO. The Center for Social and Economic Develop-
ment (DESEC), a non-profit private organization, is also active in the rural
areas. DESEC's primary functions are to promote and organize cooperatives in



- 4 -
rural areas, provide technical assistance to farmers and prepare feasibility
studies. It assisted FAO/CP in the preparation of the Ingavi Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1211-BO) and is now assisting UNDP in preparing the
feasibility study for a third integrated development project. Also, more
recently (May 1977), Bolivia organized a meeting in which UN agencies
participated to discuss Government's strategy and development plan for the
rural sector and a framework for coordinated assistance from the UN system.
Bolivia is the first nation among the less developed countries to undertake
such a measure directed toward rural development. The Government now plans
to establish a multi-disciplinary unit that would coordinate development
efforts.
2.10      Government Strategy.  According to the recent National Development
Plan, the Government's efforts would be directed at reducing the country's
dependence on imported foodstuffs and to alleviate acute poverty and under-
employment in the traditional agricultural sector. For the latter, agricul-
tural investment will be directed toward integrated rural development
projects to provide basic social services, infrastructure, marketing and
credit, and extension services. The Government plans to use the Ingavi Rural
Development Project (Loan 1211-BO) and the Ulla Ulla Development Project as
prototypes for development of the Altiplano and the intermediate valleys and
to seek support from external agencies to improve planning, coordination, and
supervision of development programs to benefit the rural poor. For the period
1977-79, the Bolivian Government is seeking external financing in the amount
of US$331 million, about 15% of total external financing for all sectors, for
agricultural and rural development.
2.11      The Government recognizes the difficulties in bringing about an
orderly development of the Altiplano, which is endowed with limited resources
and harsh conditions and where the population has in the past been less
receptive to changes and, to some extent, suspicious and unapproachable.
Thus, implementation of rural development projects in the Altiplano would
imply taking more than the usual risks, particularly since the results obtained
in this region by other institutions have been mediocre and somewhat inconclu-
sive.
2.12      However, there have been positive changes recently in the attitudes
and ideals of the rural poor in the Altiplano towards social and economic
changes. Communities have become more sensitive to progress and indicate
strong desires to participate in the development process. This, then, in
addition to the Government's declared commitment to engendering development
in the project area, could be the overriding factor insofar as the success
of rural development projects in the Altiplano is concerned.
2.13      Government Agencies.  The Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agricul-
ture (MPAA), BAB, SNDC, the Regional Development Corporations, and the National
Institution for Colonization are the principal institutions involved in rural
areas.



- 5 -
2.14      MPAA, through the newly created semi-autonomous Institution for
Agriculture and Teclnology (IBTA), is responsible for extension services
and research as well as for establishment of overall sectoral policies and
formulation of specific priorities. These are then submitted for review and
approval by the Ministry of National Planning and Coordination.
2.15      BAB is the major institutional source of agricultural credit, but
most of its lending is confined to large farmers. However, after its
forthcoming reorganization and with competent staff, it could emerge as an
important and viable agricultural development institution.
2.16      SNDC, which was created with the assistance of USAID, has focused
on construction of schools and roads in rural areas, but it has recently
placed emphasis on credit and small irrigation schemes.
2.17      The Colonization Institution is responsible for directed coloniza-
tion schemes. IDB and USAID have assisted in the preparation and financing
of these schemes, but, by and large, the few that have been attempted have
failed.
2.18      To date, the three most active regional development agencies in
the agricultural sector are in Santa Cruz, La Paz and Chuquisaca. The Santa
Cruz Works Committee, with its own financial resources obtained from royal-
ties on petroleum sales, is actively engaged in financing small-scale agri-
cultural projects and supporting infrastructure, while CORDEPAZ, the regional
development agency in La Paz, has participated in the preparation of the
Ingavi Project, financed pre-feasibility studies for rural integrated projects
in the Northern Altiplano, and now plans to finance a sugar development program
in Apolo. It also finances infrastructure in the rural areas in the Department
of La Paz. The Chuquisaca Development Committee has obtained financing from
IDB (US$2.2 million) for development of the swine industry and it now plans
to expand its activities in the Department of Chuquisaca for agricultural and
rural development.
Alpaca, Llama and Vicuna Livestock
2.19      Alpaca/llama/vicuna livestock is an important resource in the
Altiplano. Most recent estimates indicate that there are about 2.2 million
llamas, 300,000 alpacas, and 1,000 vicunas. While llamas are predominant
in the dry and arid southern and central Altiplano, about 50% of the alpaca
population is concentrated in the more humid, higher reaches of the northern
highlands. The remaining animals are dispersed throughout the central
Altiplano where natural conditions in some areas are favorable. To date,
the Government's efforts to develop agriculture in the Altiplano have been
centered exclusively on raising yields of the traditional crops (potatoes,
quinoa, barley, alfalfa, and some vegetables) and introducing improved breeds
of sheep and cows at the farm level. However, Bolivia's efforts to develop
alpaca and llama and wool production as a source of foreign exchange and as
an additional income and employment source for the rural poor are deficient
and lag far behind the intensive programs undertaken in Peru. Alpaca and
llama fiber production has been low and programs to improve alpaca and llama
breeds for their high value wool have been limited to a small-scale research



- 6 -
program at the Patacamaya Experiment Station. Emphasis on improving alpaca
and llama fiber production would generate forward linkages, i.e., expansion
of wool processing and the handicrafts industry.
2.20      Alpaca.  In recent years, alpaca fiber averaged 132 m tons annually.
The average yield of fiber is 0.8 kg per animal, compared to about 1.3 kg in
Peru under improved breeding and herd management practices. The average size
herd in Bolivia is estimated at 100 alpacas, generally characterized by low
fertility (35%) and a high mortality rate (20%). Pasture rotation is not
practiced, and unrestricted grazing has led to the depletion of good range
land. Animals are kept until they die from natural causes, and no effort is
made to cull the male animals. As a result, there is a high share of non-
reproductive animals. Animal health problems are acute and no measures are
taken to control animal diseases. Alpacas are sheared every two years instead
of annually and the method is haphazard. Usually animals are sheared with a
knife, tin can lids, or even broken glass, and no effort is made to separate
the fiber according to fineness, which varies from one part of the body to
another.
2.21      Peruvian experience indicates that alpaca fiber production in
Bolivia could be increased almost fourfold but only through a coordinated
package of activities in adaptive research, technical assistance, credit
for on-farm investment and herd development, and supporting infrastructure.
2.22      Llama.  There is potential for large-scale production of llama
fiber; however, the real problem has been lack of a dehairing technology
(para 2.35). Llama fiber production varies considerably from year to year, but
has been estimated at about 55 m tons per annum in recent years. Most of the
fiber is exported to the USA and Europe, where it is processed into fabrics.
'2.23     The average annual yield of llama fiber is about 1.0 kg per animal,
but with improved breeding and herd management this could go up to 1.3 kg.
With dehairing technology, total animal llama fiber production would be in
excess of 800 m tons a year.
2.24      Vicuna.  The vicuna, unlike the llama and alpaca, is undomesticated,
and lives primarily at high altitudes on the Altiplano of Peru and Bolivia,
although small numbers have been sighted in Chile and Argentina. Currently,
there are only about 1,000 in Bolivia of which about 60% are in the Ulla
Ulla reserve area. It is estimated that the total vicuna population in
South America dropped from 400,000 in the early 1950s to only about 5,000 at
the end of the 1960s, owing to the high prices and strong demand for its
fleece. Top quality vicuna wool can be bought for about US$25 per pound
compared to only 40 cents per pound for high-grade sheep wool. The majority
of these survivors have been saved and numbers have since increased due to the
conservation measures taken by Peru and Bolivia, but vicunas are still being
killed for their high-valued fleece in the two countries.
2.25      The Government is now placing priority on the vicuna conservation
and development program and it plans to establish firm control over poachers.
It also intends to seek assistance in conducting detailed research on vicunas
and in evaluating ways of breeding them for commercial purposes.



-7-
Solar Ener~Iy
2.26      The rural poor of the Altiplano depend on non-commercial energy
sources for fuel for household needs. Currently, dried animal dung is the
single most important source of energy, but resources are inadequate to meet
household requirements, providing for only limited cooking and no heating
during the Iarsh winter months. Also, the use of dried animal dung to
generate energy eliminates its use as fertilizer. Therefore, alternative
sources of energy in rural areas are of critical importance.
2.27      Solar energy is a potentially usable resource in the Altiplano,
and the Go  .nment places high priority on its exploitation and development.
At an average altitude of more than 13,000 feet above sea level and with
an average of 2,500 sun hours per annum, the region receives high levels of
solar energy, ranging from about 400 cal/cm /day in winter months, to more
than 600 cal/cm /day in summer, well above the minimum limits for the economic
operation of solar energy devices.
2.28      Bolivia has already initiated a solar energy program at the Physics
Research Institute (IDIF) of the University of San Andres in La Paz, which
is well known for its research in cosmic ray physics. To date, water heaters,
food driers and metalurgical and mineral devices using solar energy have been
developed and tested to some extent. There is, however, a shortage of funds
for equipment and tools for the workshop and for carrying out further research
and experimentation.
.C. Wool Textile Industry
2.29      The Bolivian textile industry, accounting for almost 20% of the
labor force in the industrial sector, has been growing in recent years at a
rate of about 3.5% to 4% per annum. Installed capacity is estimated at
54,000 spinning spindles and some 1,650 looms, with the wool industry alone
accounting for about 28% and 20% of spindles and looms, respectively. Of the
estimated 125 mills registered, only seven belong to the wool sector, two
of which account for 75% of the installed capacity. In terms of labor force,
the wool industry employs about 28% of the total force in the textile indus-
try, being second to the cotton sector.
2.30      In spite of the upward trend in the textile industry, a recent study
by Werner Management consultants on behalf of the Bolivian Government in 1974/
75 found that mills were generally obsolete and in a poor state of mainte-
nance, with inadequate processing technology, working methods, and management.
Processing
2.31      The principal raw materials for the wool industry are sheep wool,
alpaca/llama fiber, and acrylics, all of which are processed into fabric,
yarn, blankets and traveling rugs and hats. Only two enterprises -- the state
enterprise, COMBOFLA, and a cooperative, FOTRAMA -- are involved in spinning
alpaca fiber (para 2.33). A third enterprise, FORNO, also buys small quanti-
ties of fiber, usually from COMBOFLA, to incorporate into woolen blankets and



-8-
traveling rugs. Most of the fiber collected, however, is processed into
knitting yarns for sale to artisans. Total yarn production has been
increasing by about 12% a year since 1974 and in 1976 reached 45 m tons.
2.32      The amount of llama fiber presently produced is small relative
to the potential for large-scale production. Except for some sales to
FORNO, fiber has been mostly exported to the USA and Europe, although the
demand for coarse fiber is limited.
2.33      The Alpaca Wool Processing and Marketing Company (FOTRAMA) complex
is an integrated cooperative established to provide education, health care
and employment to communities in the Cochabamba area. This cooperative has
a small mill which produces coarse semi-worsted alpaca yarn for distributing
to its members to use in making handicraft items. The Bolivian Committee
for Production of Wool (COMBOFLA) processing plant in Pulacayo is not suitable
for processing. Raw material must be transported by train, a 15-hour run
from La Paz.  The plant layout is deficient and most of the equipment is
obsolete. Work methods and plant conditions are poor; quality control is
non-existent; and technical and supervisory staff lacks the know-how and
experience required to run a modern mill. The plant is not expected to con-
tinue operations for more than three to five years.
2.34      Increasing sales of artisanal end products have generated a large
demand for yarn by low income groups in rural and urban areas where unemploy-
ment and underemployment are high. This demand, however, cannot be met
because Bolivia's processing capacity of alpaca wool is limited to an esti-
mated 50% of total production. Therefore, a new processing plant with
improved technology and processing facilities and improved management and
organization is urgently needed.
Llama Fiber Dehairing Technology
2.35      Traditionally, llama fiber is considered inferior to that of the
alpaca or vicuna due to heterogeneity, which results from the presence of
varying amounts of coarse hair mixed with fine, soft fibers. The presence of
these coarse fibers creates processing problems in conventional spinning,
weaving and dying, and gives a rough and unpleasant texture to fabric. Very
little research has been done in Bolivia to develop a dehairing processing
technique. However, dehairing processing technology has been developed by
several countries although the details remain a "trade secret't of specialized
firms in both the USA and Europe.
2.36      With about 2.2 million llamas in Bolivia (para 2.19), the Govern-
ment places high priority on acquiring a suitable dehairing technology,
since it would have substantial impact on livestock production, the wool
industry and the handicraft sector. A conservative estimate places potential
llama fiber production after dehairing in excess of 800 m tons annually
(para 2.23).



-9-
Institutional Arrangement
2.37      Development of the alpaca and llama resource has lagged, mainly
because of the lack of strong institutional support. In 1962, the Government
established COMBOFLA as an independent state enterprise under the auspices of
the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture, but it has not fulfilled its
responsibilities for the integrated development of the entire wool industry.
Instead, it has concentrated exclusively on collecting and processing alpaca/
llama fleece for export, marketing yarn to its affiliated artisans, and
selling artisanal products. It has also mishandled the purchasing of wool
from alpaca/llama owners, which has resulted in about 20% of Bolivia's total
fleece production being smuggled into Peru, where prices are higher and there
are other incentives as well to Bolivian producers (para 2.41). Because of
the comparative lower price it offers, its involvement with the artisan
industry, and its failure to promote integrated development of alpaca/llama
and sheep, COMBOFLA has been steadily losing the confidence of both the public
and private sectors.
2.38      An independent national institution under the Ministry of Peasant
Affairs and Agriculture and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce has now
been established to revitalize the alpaca/llama textile industry and to help
improve incomes of the rural poor on the Altiplano (para 4.01).
Marketing and Prices
2.39      Marketing.  COMBOFLA accounts for most of the collection of alpaca
and llama raw material although FOTRAMA gathers some from the central Altiplano
and a substantial amount is bought by itinerant tradesmen directly from pro-
ducers at local fairs. However, due to the poor marketing infrastructure at
the production level and because of higher prices in Peru, about 40% of total
production in the project area is sold across the border.
2.40      COMBOFLA's gathering system covers only selected producing areas,
leaving out some remote regions that account for a substantial part of total
annual production. Currently, it has four main gathering posts and 13 second-
ary posts, operated by a staff of 21 persons. In general, facilities, such
as offices, warehouses and equipment, are small, inadequate, and in poor condi-
tion, but transportation constitutes the major bottleneck.
2.41      Marketing and price information is scarce, with COMBOFLA providing
what it can at the main gathering centers only. The fiber brought by the
farmers to the collecting points is paid for by the kg, which is equivalent
to 2 lb instead of 2.2 lb, but this confuses the farmers, who are used to the
Peruvian system of selling by the pound. In addition, the farmer often does
not receive immediate cash payment but instead is issued a credit voucher
which he will exchange against cash when it becomes available (often a month
or two later).
2.42      Bolivia has developed a tourist and export market of artisanal end
products, the added value of which as against raw material is of the order
of 150%.  Bolivian export legislation discourages the export of raw materials,



- 10 -
imposing a tax of 25% on unprocessed textile raw materials. The domestic
tourist market for these artisanal products is good and is expected to remain
attractive if appropriate product adaptation and market development efforts
are undertaken. Additionally, the export potential for alpaca/llama products
is high, since they are available in Bolivia and Peru only, and world demand
exceeds present supplies (mainly from Peru).
2.43      Alpaca/llama meat, hides, and pelts are also marketed on a small
scale. At present an excessive number of pelts is being processed for the
handicraft industry, mainly for bedspreads, hats, and rugs, but the supply
comes from dead animals and the slaughtering of young animals. Currently,
there is no legislation to regulate the production and marketing of pelts,
but to avert a decline in the alpaca and llama population in the long run,
control over the slaughter of young animals may be needed.
2.44      Prices.  The current farmgate prices of alpaca fiber are $b 90, or
US$4.5, per kg for white and an average of $b 56 (US$2.8) per kg for colored.
COMBOFLA is the main buyer and it fixes prices every six months. In Peru
prices are usually 15% to 25% higher for white wool and 20% to 30% higher
for colored wool. The selling price of alpaca yarn, set by COMBOFLA is
currently US$12.5 per kg. This subsidized price does not, however, allow
the Pulacayo processing plant to cover its costs. In Peru, the ex-factory
price of alpaca yarn is about US$19 per kg for yarns of about the same
quality. The lower COMBOFLA price is actually equivalent to a subsidy to
foreign tourists in Bolivia, although the booming Peruvian handicraft indus-
try shows that its higher prices have not kept the market from growing. To
correct the imbalance in the Bolivian system, prices of yarn should be
adjusted to reflect production cost, and farmgate prices should be adjusted
to follow the Peruvian prices so that the substantial outflow of raw materials
to Peru can be stopped. The possibility of increased income would also give
sufficient incentive to increase production.
D. Handicraft Industry
2.45      The Bolivian handicraft industry generates about US$4 million in
foreign exchange annually and is a vital source of supplementary income and
employment for about 200,000 poor rural and urban families. While Bolivia
has developed a profitable tourist and export market for its handicraft
products, i.e., sweaters, ponchos, blankets and other garments, it has realized
only a fraction of the possible benefits associated with handicraft trade
because of (a) shortages of alpaca/llama/sheep wool and yarn; (b) lack of
credit for the purchase of wool, yarn, tools, machinery and for establishment
of workshops; (c) lack of essential training and technical assistance programs;
(d) deficient promotional and marketing programs; and (e) weak organizational
arrangements.
2.46      The bulk of Bolivia's small artisans depend mainly on subsistence
farming for their livelihood and supplement their basic income from sales
of handicrafts. Families have sufficient time to engage in making articles



- 11 -
for sale as the agricultural season is concentrated in a period of about
five months of the year, which leaves them about seven months for other
activities. Potentially, a typical artisan family with three of its members
engaged in making alpaca/llama/sheep wool-based handicraft items could earn
about US$1,800 equivalent a year.
2.47      Customarily, women prepare the wool for further processing and do
spinning and knitting, while men do mostly weaving.  They knit and weave
sweaters, ruanas, decorative bags, colorful hats, ponchos and the like,
all made from alpaca/llama wool.  Some of these items are used by the family
and the rest is either bartered for essential commodities needed to sustain
the family throughout the year or sold to intermediaries. The production
process under present conditions is tedious and requires long working hours.
Spinning and knitting is often done by hand or with wooden looms. Dyeing
techniques are primitive, with the coloring chemicals extracted from vegetable
substances that tend to fade after exposure to the sun. Finished products
are stored in the artisans' adobe huts until the intermediaries or representa-
tives of the commercial firms arrive in the village to make purchases. The
prices offered by the purchasing agents for the items, however, are very low
compared to what could be obtained by selling directly in urban centers.
2.48      The role of the private sector in the handicrafts trade has been
positive but limited in scope. A few individuals with some capital and
much imagination and drive have taken the initiative and organized a rela-
tively small number of artisans into production cooperatives to whom they
sell wool and yarn at subsidized rates in exchange for the right to purchase
their end products.
2.49      Prospects for the growth of the handicrafts industry improved with
the establishment in August 1974 of the National Institute for Small Industries
and Handicrafts (INBOPIA) as a decentralized institute under the auspices of
the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Its main purpose is to plan
and promote the development of small industrial enterprises and the handicrafts
industry in Bolivia and while it has made some progress, its efforts have been
hampered by lack of funds and support staff.
2.50      INBOPIA's budget for 1977 amounts to US$150,000 and it has a total
staff of 25, 17 of whom are professionals. Since it began operation, INBOPIA
has carried out socioeconomic studies on artisan activities; it has launched
a nationwide registration campaign for all artisans in the country; it has
participated in international fairs to promote export of Bolivian handicrafts;
and it has helped to organize nine artisan cooperatives with the assistance
of IDB. INBOPIA's programs for the next five years will concentrate on
strengthening its operation in the small industrial sector and particularly on
increasing its involvement with the handicraft trade.



- 12 -
E. Project Area
2.51      The project area (Map IBRD 12907) is in the department of La Paz,
northeast of Lake Titicaca, in the upper part of the Suches river drainage
basin. The Suches river forms the boundary between Bolivia and Peru and
marks the western boundary of the project area. The eastern boundary, for
the most part, coincides with the Andes range. The project area contains
portions of the Franz Tamayo and Saavedra Provinces and covers about 300,000
ha of extensive plains with an average elevation of about 14,000 feet. The
southern part of the project area varies from high altitude rolling grassy
hillocks and stringer meadows to steep mountain slopes that go down into
narrow river valleys. The bottom lands of these rivers, and occasionally
the adjacent steep slopes, are cultivated. Overall, soils are best suited
to grazing lands.
2.52      The climate is generally cool, with marked differences between
day and night temperatures.  The average annual temperature is approxi-
mately 8 0C, varying from an average winter night temperature of 6  below
the freezing point to 280 above zero centigrade during daytime in the
summer. Night frosts can be expected throughout the year. The combina-
tion of high altitude, clear unpolluted skies and relative proximity to
the equator results in a high incidence of solar radiation (para 2.27).
Average annual rainfall is reported between 400 and 800 mm, with the
larger part falling from November through March.
2.53      Livestock is the principal agricultural activity in the project
area, which supports about 150,000 alpacas, approximately 25,000 llamas
and 600 vicunas. Cultivated areas are extremely sparse and restricted
to the southern fringes of the project area where cultivated forage and some
food crops (barley, onions, potatoes, and flat beans) are grown. Other than
range-livestock activities, there is virtually no alternative economic
activity. Handicraft items are produced but generally do not play a signifi-
cant role in the money economy. Employment opportunities are limited to the
COMBOFLA buying stations and some retail establishments.
2.54      About 3,000 families live in the project area, 2,000 of whom would
benefit directly from the livestock development program. Communities are
based on the ancient Aymara social organization characterized by extended
families. There is a long history of community programs among these people
as well as traditions of common land ownership and joint efforts for civil
and religious activities. Communal living and land ownership patterns
especially favor livestock development based on farmer groups.
2.55      Women play a predominant role in economic activities, but the
living conditions of typical housewives in the project area are extremely
harsh and the rewards very limited. They work hard and die at the relati-
vely young average age of 45. Young girls are assigned to herding alpacas,
spinning, hauling water over long distances, collecting dung for cooking
fuel, washing dishes, and sweeping the house yards. Most marry at the age
of 15. The women's work schedule is governed by the requirements of the



- 13 -
various agricultural seasons -- shearing alpaca/llama; collecting the fleece;
washing, spinning and selling it; herding animals; and visiting fairs. During
slacks in the agricultural cycle, women do spinning and knitting and make
handicraft items to supplement the income derived from sales of alpacas and
their fleece.
2.56      To date, the project area has received very little development
assistance and the target population would be the poorest of the rural poor in
the Altiplano. Social and physical infrastructure are almost non-existent.
The road network in the project area consists of dirt roads and tracks, which
are usually in poor condition. The roads receive occasional maintenance from
the National Roads Service (SNC) but are almost impassable during the rainy
season (January-March) and during the winter months (July and August).
2.57      The health status of the population in the project area is poor.
In 1976, there were two outbreaks of exanthematic typhus, and, in the same
year, an epidemic of measles or whooping cough (data are not sufficient to
determine which of the two diseases was involved) killed 33 children and
two adults. The only accessible health facility for people living in the
northern part of the project area is a post located in the Peruvian village
of Cojata, a three-hour walk, and there is a medical post in Charazani,
about 30 km from Ulla Ulla, located along the eastern boundary of the project
area. The building was upgraded to a health center hospital last year but
it still has not been equipped. There is one medical doctor but no auxiliary
personnel. Personal hygiene practices are almost non-existent. Most com-
munities get their water supplies from open ditches, which are polluted
since they are unprotected, and there are no waste disposal facilities.
2.58      Education facilities in the project area are poor and inadequate.
Classrooms are damp and cold, roofs usually leak, rooms are improperly
ventilated and poorly illuminated, and there is a lack of adequate drinking
water facilities and pit privies. In addition most schools are inadequately
furnished, lack basic teaching aid materials and equipment, and teachers
use Peruvian textbooks in many courses because of unavailability of locally
produced teaching materials. The courses taught in the project area also
have little relevance to the student's environmental and eventual work needs,
being biased toward urban and academic courses. Attendance rates are low,
dropout rates are very high, and the ratio of over-aged students with respect
to average-aged students is relatively high by comparison with other regions.
Due to the poor education system, the majority of graduates from local schools
are as ill-prepared to contribute to the welfare of their communities as their
counterparts who never attended schools.
2.59      There are no agricultural services in the project area.  The last
time an extension agent visited the area was two years ago.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The proposed project would provide financing for a comprehensive
integrated development over a five-year investment period. The overall
objective of the project would be to promote an orderly development of the
alpaca/llama agro-industry; to conserve and develop vicuna resources; and to
improve the economic and social conditions of about 3,000 families in the
project area. An additional 3,400 rural families would benefit from the
development of the wool handicraft activity under the project. The project,
with the Ingavi Rural Development Project (Loan 1211-BO), would also provide
the basis for a long-range program to develop other regions of the Altiplano.
3.02      Under the project, alpaca and llama production (crude and processed
hair) would be increased by improving feed base, quality of animal breed, and
range and herd management practices; providing trading posts and storage
facilities; and improving marketing and processing systems for alpaca and
llama fiber. A research program would improve development of alpaca and
llama breeds and expand and strengthen the conservation program for vicunas.
The project would provide technical and veterinary services and credit for
on-farm investments and herd development. It would also make provision for
a pricing mechanism to give farmers and artisans incentives for increasing
fiber production and handicraft items, and for reducing the illegal flow of
alpaca fiber into Peru. In addition, the wool handicraft industry would
receive credit and technical assistance, and living conditions would be
improved in the project area through provision of health and education centers,
drinking water and waste disposal facilities, and improved roads.
3.03      The proposed project would also include several innovative features.
Through a technical assistance component, the project would finance develop-
ment of a llama dehairing technololgy to increase llama fiber production and
to utilize more fully the 2.2 million llamas now available in Bolivia. It
would also finance the exploitation of solar energy, an important natural
resource in the Altiplano, for use in the rural areas of the region. In addi-
tion, concerted efforts would be directed toward improving the lot of women
in the project area through technical assistance to develop basic skills and
to increase productivity. Finally, the project would have substantial impact
on institution building.
3.04      The proposed IDA credit and Bank loan would be made to the Government,
and the National Institution for the Development of Wool (INFOL), the newly
created institution under the auspices of the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and
Agriculture and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, would be responsible
for project execution. The Agricultural and Social Infrastructure Division
(ASI) of INFOL would be directly responsible for project administration and
management in Ulla Ulla. For the handicraft, solar energy, and physical
infrastructure components (roads, health, education, and water and waste
disposal facilities), INFOL would enter into operational agreements with each
respective participating agency.



- 15 -
B. Detailed Features
Livestock Development (Alpaca/Llama/Vicuna)
3.05      Experiment Station.  Experiment Station facilities, including a
commercial farm, would encompass an area of about 4,000 ha. The Experiment
Station would be provided with laboratory equipment and facilities for re-
search on low-cost production systems and on parasitology, bacteriology,
biology, pasture, and animal nutrition as they relate to alpacas and llamas.
The Experiment Station would include a 20-ha irrigation scheme to produce
forage for the Experiment Station's use and a supply of grass seeds for
farmers to utilize in the project area. Also, the irrigation scheme would be
used to determine the technical and economic feasibility of using irrigation
to increase the carrying capacity of range land since about 8,000 ha of land
can be irrigated in the project area (Annex 1). In the initial period, the
Experiment Station, would utilize the results already obtained from basic and
applied research on alpaca, particularly at the La Raya Experiment Station in
P eru.
3.06      The communities in the project area have contributed 4,000 ha of
land for the necessary facilities. Of this, about 1,500 ha would be utilized
for the Experiment Station and the remaining 2,500 ha for the commercial farm.
3.07      Commercial Farm.  A commercial farm would be established for the
implementation of improved techniques currently available as well as those
developed at the Experiment Station to gain farmers' confidence in the develop-
ment program (Annex 1). The commercial farm would employ a farming system
compatible with that existing in the project area and would include about
2,500 ha of range land, operating with about 1,500 alpacas and about 370
lfamas (para 4.21). The farm would operate as a commercial enterprise and
would serve as a demonstration unit, adopting improved range and animal
husbandry practices. It would maintain separate accounts and adopt sound
management practices. Profits of the commercial farm would be shared by the
communities which contributed land to the Government for establishment of the
facilities. At full development, i.e., after 10 years, INFOL would transfer
the commercial farm to the donor communities for operation as a cooperative
enterprise. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations. Assur-
ances were also obtained that INFOL would submit to IDA/Bank by January 1,
1982, a proposal outlining the terms and conditions under which the commer-
cial farm would be transferred to the communities who contributed land.
3.08      On-farm Investments and Herd Development.  Herd development and
increased fiber production would be achieved within the context of tradi-
tional patterns of farm activities and forms of cooperation in the project
area. Sub-loans would be made to individual farmers or groups of farmers to
improve traditional shearing techniques and fiber handling and classifying
practices, and also for construction of facilities for implementing a sound



- 16 -
animal program including improved animal husbandry and range management
practices. Major investment items would include spray-bath facilities,
holding corrals, shearing sheds, fiber classification and storage sheds,
mechanical shearing equipment, drugs, animals and fences. Minor investment
items would include medical kits, hand shears, scales, fiber classifying
tables, and identification tags (Annex 2).
3.09      Farmers would participate either individually or as members of
a farmer group. The smallest farm development model would include 100
alpacas, which is few enough to be herded easily by one person, and no
fences would be required. Pasture rotation would be accomplished by marking
the pasturing areas with movable landmarks. The only investment item would
be hand shears, and medicines for the animals would be the only cash operating
cost. Farmer groups would vary in size, with membership ranging from five
to 55 families. Such communal farms would be developed on land presently
operated in common. Herd size of each farmer group would depend on farmer
participation and vary accordingly. Investment items would include a holding
corral, shearing platform, hand shears, tools, shearing table, identifying
tags, fences, drugs, and male replacements for the first year. In all cases
(Models 2, 3 and 4, Annex 2), shearing would be done annually, and animal
husbandry practices such as breeding and calving in addition to parasite
control would be carried out according to a prescribed scheduled (Annex 2).
3.10      Extension Services.  Technical services would be provided to
farmers in improved technology for animal husbandry, in improved herd and
range management practices, improved shearing techniques, and in preparation
and implementation of farm development plans. In order to improve the over-
all effectiveness of the extension system and communications between exten-
sion personnel and the target group, local cadres would be selected and
trained in animal husbandry and range management practices (Annex 1).
3.11      Veterinary services would also be provided to project beneficiaries.
Part of the assistance would be in the form of training in simple procedures
for control and prevention of internal and external parasites and first aid
and other practices as part of the overall herd management program. The
veterinary services would be provided free of charge; however, any medicines
required would be paid by the project beneficiaries.
3.12      Vicuna Conservation and Development.  The project would provide funds
to strengthen the present protection scheme for vicunas, train guards and
introduce research and experimentation activities designed to establish a
systematic vicuna management program in the Ulla Ulla Reserve and throughout
Bolivia. Six additional guards would be recruited and trained, and the proj-
ect would also provide accommodation facilities for guards, new observation
posts, additional vehicles, and other necessary equipment (Annex 3).
Wool Collection, Storage and Processing
3.13      Gathering System.  The collection network would be enlarged and
improved to cover all the producing areas. Facilities would be expanded by
renting larger storage rooms, and five new posts would be built (one main



- 17 -
and four secondary) and adequately staffed. All gathering posts would be
provided with adequate furniture and office equipment, and vehicles would
be supplied to facilitate the flow of alpaca/llama/sheep--raw material to
La Paz (Annex 4).
3.14      Storage Facilities.  A warehouse would be built in El Alto near
La Paz, close to the processing plant, to facilitate the seasonal collection
of sheep wool and alpaca and llama fiber. It would be equipped with two
passenger vehicles, three hydraulic wool pressers, two forklift trucks and
furniture and office equipment. It would have a total staff of 16 persons.
3.15      Processing Plant.  The project would finance a new spinning plant
in La Paz with a total annual capacity of 595 m tons of yarn on a three-shift
basis or 300 m tons on a two-shift basis. The plant would be supplied with
all necessary machinery and equipment, which would include a scouring unit
for the processing of 1,800 m tons of sheep wool for the Bolivian wool mills.
The project would make provision for consultant services to provide technical
know-how and to implement all the mill control programs as well as to set up
a training program for plant personnel.
Handicraft
3.16      The project would provide credit and technical assistance to help
about 3,400 small rural and urban artisan families in the Departments of La
Paz and Cochabamba to increase production and exports of typical handicraft
items. The handicrafts component would consist of: (a) a US$2.0 million
lending program to finance the capital requirements of small artisans working
with alpaca/llama/sheep wool; (b) a US$1.0 million technical assistance
program to help INBOPIA organize artisan production and marketing groups,
finance the cost of quality control and standards, promote exports of Bolivian
handicrafts by preparing a national catalogue of handicraft and participating
in international fairs, monitor radio broadcasting programs, supervise the
training program of the National Manpower Development Service (FOMO) for
the participating artisans, and coordinate with the State Bank (BE) the imple-
mentation of the credit component; and (c) a US$100,000 purchasing fund to
enable INBOPIA to buy and sell, on a modest scale, some of the handicraft
articles produced by artisan organizations in order to ensure competitive
market prices (Annex 5).
Roads
3.17      Construction and improvements of roads would be required to ensure
flow of goods and services to and from the project area and the access of
ASI personnel to farmer groups throughout the project area, particularly
during the rainy season (January-March) and during winter months (July and
August). Works under the project would thus include construction and improve-
ment of about 54 km of all-weather roads in the project area (Annex 6). The
National Roads Service (SNC) would implement the program, which would be
completed in 18 months. The project would also finance purchase and operation
of equipment for project roads and for their maintenance during and after the
implementation period.



- 18 -
Health Facilities
3.18      A health facilities network would be established to provide minimal
health services in the project area (Annex 7). Existing communities would
be organized into "group units" for delivery of health care services, and a
micro-health post would be installed in each village (totalling 30) as part
of the health system. Each post would be equipped with a first aid kit con-
taining basic drugs for treatment of the most common ailments in the community.
In addition, a medical post with six beds, attached to the project facilities
in Ulla Ulla, would be constructed. Also, the health facility at Charazani
would be equipped as a medical post. With six beds for delivering ambulatory
and hospital care, this facility would serve a population of over 16,000 in
the surrounding areas. The newly created health facility in Achachi, about
150 km from Ulla Ulla, would be the main referral hospital for the project
area. Total manpower requirement for the health system would be two physicians,
two auxiliary nurses and 30 community health workers. The community health
workers would be trained by the Department of Public Health (DPH) of the
University of San Andres.
Water Supply and Waste Disposal Facilities
3.19      Potable water supply and waste disposal facilities would be provided
to about 2,000 families in the project area. About 1,200 pumps and 1,000 pit
privies would be installed over the project period (Annex 8).
Education Facilities
3.20      The project would construct 25 new classrooms and renovate two exist-
ing ones. It would also replace the intermediate school of Ulla Ulla with a
new school to accommodate 50 students. Houses would be built for teachers,
and textbooks and learning materials would be provided. Provision would
also be made for a teachers' training program (Annex 9).
Women's Participation
3.21      The proposed component would assist about 2,000 women living in the
project area to improve their health and nutrition, home care practices, and
education. Funds would be provided for the construction of five Mothers'
Club Centers in strategic locations and for the recruitment and training
of talented local women to become promotion agents. The five centers would
be provided with adequate furniture and equipment. Women would also receive
training in handicraft skills and marketing (Annex 10).
Technical Assistance
3.22      Llama Fiber Dehairing Research.  Inasmuch as purchased dehairing
processing technology could be applied almost immediately, the project would
initially make provision for the Government and INFOL to initiate negotia-
tions for the purchase of dehairing technology and submit a proposal for
IDA/Bank consideration not later than June 30, 1978. Should the Government



- 19 -
su,ccessfully negotiate purchase of appropriate technology, acceptable to
IDA/Bank, any costs in excess of allocations for the development of llama
deihairing technology under the project would be assumed by the Government.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.23      In the event that the dehairing technology cannot be purchased by
the Bolivian Government, a research program would be established within the
country for the development of a Bolivian technology and the services of a
well established and specialized research organization would be contracted.
The project would provide for a pilot processing plant equipped with mostly
(about 76%) used textile machinery and equipment, a complete fiber testing
laboratory equipped with up-to-date instruments, and a qualified and expe-
riLenced research staff (Annex 11). Used textile machinery and equipment would
minimize investment costs while satisfactorily meeting the relatively short-
term needs of the research program. The research facilities would be located
next to the proposed alpaca/llama spinning plant and the research program
would be carried out over three and a half years. After the completion of the
research program, the textile machinery and equipment would be used by INFOL
for research purposes. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would support the research program with adequate funds in the event
that research is carried beyond the three and one-half year period.
3.24      Solar Energy.  Since solar energy is a potentially usable resource
in the Altiplano, the project would strengthen local facilities and expertise
by providing financing for purchase of equipment and tools for the workshop
presently used by the Physic Research Institute (IDIF) of the University of
San Andres and funds for the development of simple, low-cost energy collect-
ion and utilization devices for use in the Altiplano. It would also provide
scholarships for training abroad and for the services of a solar energy expert
to assist IDIF in developing and testing solar devices that would be economically
competitive with conventional technologies and readily acceptable in the rural
areas (Annex 11).
Project Administration
3.25      The project would provide financial support to INFOL, which would be
responsible for project execution (Annex 12). Administration costs would
include salaries of INFOL staff, overhead costs of INFOL and incremental
administration costs of other agencies.
C. Cost Estimates
3.26      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$24 million,
of which US$9.0 million, or 38%, represents the foreign exchange component.
Investment cost phasing of the project is detailed in Annex 13. The project
costs include provision for 254 man-months of consultant services at an
estimated cost of US$1.2 million. The physical contingency has been cal-
culated at 10% of base cost on investment items. The price contingency
has been calculated on base cost plus physical contingency as of the end



- 20 -
of 1977 at the following rates: 12% for 1978-80 and 10% for 1981/82 of the
local currency; and 7.5% for 1978/79 and 7% for 1980/81/82 of the foreign
exchange component, which.is line with the Bank guidelines. Project costs
estimates are in Annex 14 and are summarized as follows:
Foreign    % of
---------$b '000--------  --------US$'000--------  Exchange  Baseline
Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    %               Cost
Productive Investment
Commercial farm           1,186    1,294    2,480          59        65       124      52          1
Collection, storage
and processing          41,978   55,220   97,198    2,099    2,761    4,860           57        28
Credit to farmers
and communities         12,600   17,400   30,000         630       870    1,500       58         9
Handicraft credit        34,000    6,000   40,000    1,700          300    27000       15        11
Sub-total              89,764   79,914  169,678    4,488    3,996    8,484           47        49
Productive Support
Project facilities 1/  51,547   17,142   68,689    2,577            857    3,434       25        20
Vicuna conservation
program                  1,109       235    1,344         55        12        67      18         _
FOMO (training)           2,894       496    3,390        145        25       170      15         1
Roads                    10,464    6,242   16,706         523       312       835      37         5
Llama dehairing           2,901   15,313   18,214         145        766      911      84          5
Solar energy                420    2,580    3,000           21      129       150      86         1
Sub-total              69,335   42,008  111,343    3,466    2,101    5,567           38        32
Social Infrastructure
Health                    6,373    1,753    8,126          319        87       406     22          2
Water supply and
waste disposal           6,489    1,921    8,410         324         96      420      23          3
Education                 7,500    3,640   11,140         375       182       557      33          3
Women's participation   1,050          150    1,200         52         8        60     13          -
Sub-total              21,412    7,464   28,876    1,070          373    1,443       26         8
Administration
INBOPIA                   8,453    8,501   16,954         423       425       848      50         5
INFOL                    15,842    3,719   19,561         792       186       978      19         6
Sub-total              24,295   12,220   36,515    1,215          611    1,826       33        11
Total baseline cost       204,806  141,606  346,412   10,239    7,081   17,320            41      100
Contingencies:
Physical                  7,106    9,321   16,427          355      466       821      57         -
Price                    87,570   30,565  118,135    4,379    1,528    5,907           26        _
Total project cost        299,482  181,492  480,974   14,973    9,075   24,048           38       139
1/ Including experiment station and technical services.
September 6, 1977



- 21 -
D. Financing
3.27      The IDA credit (US$9 million) and the Bank loan (US$9 million) for
the project would finance US$18 million, equivalent to 75% of the total
project costs, with the remainder of funds (US$6 million) to be provided by
the Government and the European Community. The proposed financing plan is as
follows:
Project Financing
US$'000
IDA/Bank                Government -              Total
Amount        %         Amount       %         Amount        %
Productive Investment
Commercial farm                83         67            41        33          124       100
Collection, storage
and  processing            4,053         83          807         17        4,860       100
Credit to farmers
and communities            1,005         67          495         33       1,500        100
Handicraft credit           1,340          67          660        33        2,000       100
Sub-total                6,481         76        2,003        24        8,484       100
Productive Support
Project facilities  2/    2,391            70       1,043         30        3,434       100
Vicuna conservation
program                       47         70            20        30           67       100
FOMO (training)               117         69            53        31          170       100
Roads                         659         79           176        21          835       100
Llama dehairing               830         91            81         9          911       100
Solar energy                  120         80            30        20          150       100
Sub-total                 4,164         75        1,403        25        5,567        100
Social Infrastructure
Health                        277          68          129        32          406       100
Water supply and waste
disposal                     282         67           138       33           420       100
Education                     375         67           182        33          557       100
Women's participation           40        67            20        33           60       100
Sub-total                   974         68          469        32        1,443       100
Administration
INBOPIA                       665         78          183        22           848       100
INFOL                         699         71          279        29          978       100
Sub-total                 1,364         75          462        25        1,826       100
Total baseline cost          12,983          75       4,337         25      17,320        100
Contingencies                 5,017          75       1,711         25       6,728        100
Total project cost           18,000          75       6,048         25      24,048        100
VL  Including a grant equivalent to US$2 million from the European Community
to finance local expenditures.
2/ Including experiment station and technical services.



- 22 -
3.28      The IDA/Bank funds would cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs
(US$9 million) and 60%, or US$9.0 million, of local costs. Local cost
financing is justified in Bolivia in view of the country's poverty and its
intensive efforts to mobilize domestic savings and also because of the
importance of the project to the Government's overall strategy in engendering
development in the Altiplano. The Commission of the European Community has
agreed to participate in the project and will provide a grant equivalent to
about US$2 million to finance local expenditures. The Government would
contribute about 17% (US$4.0 million) of the total project costs. The bene-
ficiaries would not make any financial contribution; however, they would
supply labor in kind to project works (on-farm development and water supply
and waste disposal facilities) valued at US$160,000 at market prices, which is
not included in the cost or financing tables. Also, the beneficiaries would
contribute about 4,000 ha for the establishment of project facilities.
3.29      The Government would be the borrower and would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The IDA credit and Bank loan would be at standard terms for
Bolivia. Similar to the on-lending procedures under the Ingavi Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1211-BO), proceeds of the credit and loan, as well as the
Government counterpart funds, would be channeled through the Central Bank to
INFOL and other participating agencies. Project funds would be made available
by the Government as a grant except for the credit program (US$3.5 million)
for livestock and handicraft activities; funds (US$4.9 million) for the
investment costs of processing plant and collection and storage facilities,
including incremental working capital; and funds (US$124,000) for the invest-
ment costs and first year operating costs of the commercial farm. For the
processing plant, including collection and storage facilities, about US$4.9
million would be lent to INFOL for 15 years with five years of grace at 12%
interest by the Government, and, likewise, US$124,000 would be lent to INFOL
by the Government for 14 years with four years of grace at no interest
charge. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Financing Agree-
ment between the Government and INFOL had been executed. Funds would
be disbursed from the Central Bank project accounts only on authorization
from INFOL, except in the case of BAB and the State Bank (BE), where funds
would be disbursed against evidence of disbursement by BAB and BE on
sub-loans to project beneficiaries (para 4.17). The Central Bank would
receive 1/4% on outstanding sub-loan amounts as compensation for its
services. Funds accruing in the project account from the credit program
would be available for further lending and for similar purposes. Assurances
on the above were obtained during negotiations.
E. Procurement
3.30      New equipment for the processing plant (US$2.5 million, excluding
contingency), road construction and maintenance equipment (US$300,000, exclud-
ing contingencies) and vehicles (US$261,000, excluding contingencies) would be



- 23 -
awarded through international competitive bidding according to Bank procedures.
Since some equipment for llama dehairing research facilities would be purchased
second-hand (US$153,000), procurement would be through negotiations acceptable
to the Bank. For international competitive bidding, INFOL would consolidate
t'he requirements of the participating agencies and issue the calls for tenders.
All tender packages for laboratory equipment, commercial farm equipment, and
equipment for schools, health and project administration, water and waste
disposal facilities, solar energy and handicrafts (US$1.0 million, excluding
contingency) in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be procured through
international competitive bidding according to Bank procedures. Furniture and
office equipment (US$190,000, excluding contingency) would be procured through
local competitive bidding according to local procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Procurement of most handicraft and farm inputs would be carried out by
farmers through normal commercial channels because of the size and timing of
individual purchases. Road work (US$0.8 million, excluding contingencies)
would be undertaken by SNC on force account. Civil works (US$2.3 million,
excluding contingency) for health centers, schools, trading posts and storage
facilities, processing plant, dehairing research facilities, and project
facilities in Ulla Ulla would be carried out through local competitive bidding,
acceptable to IDA/Bank.
F. Disbursement
3.31      The IDA/Bank would disburse over a period of five years:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for the purchase of vehicles
(US$261,000) and equipment (US$2,900,000);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants' services and
overseas training;
(c) 68% of local expenditures for the purchase of equipment
and material;
(d) 68% of local expenditures for civil works facilities; and
(e) 68% of local expenditures for solar energy, handicrafts,
dehairing research, education, health and project
administration.
The figures in (a) above do not include the Bank's share of the price
contingencies which amount to US$5.0 million.
3.32      Disbursement of funds for vehicles, all equipment, civil works and
consultants, and overseas training would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursement of remaining expenditures, including civil works for roads by
force account, would be made against certificates of expenditures, the docu-
mLentation for which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained
by the borrower and made available for inspection by IDA/Bank during the
course of project supervision. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given
in Annex 15 and the expected project cash flows are given in Annex 16.



- 24 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The newly created INFOL would be responsible for project implementa-
tion (Annex 17). INFOL would have its own organization, administration, and
funds. The Board of Directors would be composed of one representative from
the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture (rotating chairman), Ministry
of Commerce and Industry (rotating chairman), the Ministry of Planning and
Coordination, the Ministry of Finance, the Bolivian Institute for Agricultural
Technology (IBTA), FOTRAMA and INBOPIA; two delegates from private marketing
firms dealing with handicrafts; a representative from small artisan asso-
ciations; and the general manager of INFOL. In addition to reviewing policy
matters, the Board would appoint key staff of INFOL; approve annual develop-
ment programs, budgets, and work plans; and ensure effective coordination and
implementation of development programs in the sub-sector (Annex 12).
4.02      INFOL's general manager has been appointed.  He would be responsible
to the Board of Directors for day-to-day execution of the proposed project.
He would be supported by a deputy manager and a small core of highly qualified
professionals: five division chiefs, two economists, one financial analyst,
one statistician, one veterinarian, credit and pasture experts, and administra-
tive and support staff. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotia-
tions. An internationally recruited expert in administration and management
would be hired for 24 months to assist the general manager in coordinating the
institute's activities and in project management. An assurance was obtained
that the administrative and management expert would be employed by July 1, 1978
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA/Bank. Assurances were also obtained
that the Government would provide INFOL with necessary staff and adequate
incentives. In addition, an assurance was obtained that any replacement of
INFOL's general manager and ASI's chief would be subject to IDA/Bank approval.
4.03      INFOL would have five divisions:  Planning and Monitoring (PM),
Marketing and Processing (COMPRO), Agricultural Credit and Extension (ACE),
Administration in La Paz, and Agricultural and Social Infrastructure (ASI)
in Ulla Ulla. ACE would prepare and monitor investment programs and promote
credit among farmers in Oruro and Potosi that would complement ASI's develop-
ment activities in Ulla Ulla under the project. ACE would also be respon-
sible for coordinating courses with the local universities relating to alpaca/
llama and sheep development and for promoting training programs at the La Raya
Experiment Station in Peru.
4.04      INFOL's PM would collect data and prepare annual wool production
forecasts and estimates of demand for fleece and yarn, and, on the basis of
such information, would establish quotas for textile and handicraft users
and formulate minimum selling and purchasing prices for fleece and yarn. It
would also prepare marketing information and trade bulletins. INFOL would
also be required to establish a pricing mechanism that would serve as an
incentive to producers and artisans to increase production and ensure a



- 25 -
steady and timely supply of raw materials to the processing plant and yarn
to artisans. Guaranteed minimum prices would, inter alia, reflect farm produc-
tion costs, collection and storage costs, and processing plant operation costs
including a reasonable profit margin. Actual farmgate prices would be set in
line with prices paid in Peru. In order to support this price guarantee scheme,
a stabilization fund would be set up and supported initially by Government's
contribution, and subsequently, by profits of the new processing plant (Annex 4).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would submit a
proposal to the Bank for comments by October 31, 1978 on the pricing mechanism
and the stabilization fund and outlining how the program would be carried out.
PM would also monitor the overall progress of the project and other development
programs as well as preparation of new projects being implemented by INFOL.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that all requests for construc-
tion of new wool processing plants or expansion of existing capacity would be
approved by the Government only after consultations with INFOL.
4.05      INFOL's COMPRO would take over existing COMBOFLA facilities and
assume full responsibility for the collection, sorting, storage, processing
and selling of fleece and yarn to artisans and industrial users. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that INFOL would contract the services of
a well established and specialized research organization on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank by July 1, 1978 to carry out the research program
of llama dehairing. It would, however, not engage in handicraft activities,
and would submit a proposal to IDA/Bank by September 1, 1978, outlining how
workers at the Pulacayo processing plant would be adequately compensated when
the plant's operation is terminated on completion of the new processing plant.,
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Assurances were
also obtained during negotiations that INFOL would supply FOTRAMA with the
necessary alpaca fiber to meet its annual requirement subject to a ceiling of
50 m tons equivalent. COMPRO would also be responsible for the development of
llama dehairing technology, export promotion and for establishing and maintain-
ing an efficient grading and quality control system. Assurances were obtained
that INFOL would contract the services of a specialized consulting firm for
43 man-weeks and a textile expert for 12 man-weeks on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA/Bank by January 1, 1979 to provide technical know-how for
operating the plant, to establish grading norms and fiber pricing mechanism
as well as to set up a training program for plant personnel (para 3.15).
COMBOFLA's outstanding debt to USAID which now stands at US$1 million would
be paid by the Government in order that INFOL would be clear of obligation0
4.06      ASI, with headquarters in Ulla Ulla, would have five units:  the
Commercial Farm; the Experiment Station and Vicuna Reserve; Credit and
Extension; Monitoring; Administration, and an ad hoc committee (para 4.08)
which would advise ASI's chief and be actively involved in the implementation
of the Ulla Ulla Development Project (Annex 12). Given the remoteness of the
project area from the main centers of population and the harshness of living
conditions in the area, the compensation program for the staff in Ulla Ulla
would be made considerably attractive. An assurance was obtained that the
Government would provide the staff with adequate incentives and that it would
provide adequate funds and staff to maintain the Experiment Station after
project completion.



- 26 -
4.07      ASI's chief would have overall authority and responsibility for
execution of the livestock component of the project, reporting directly
to INFOL's general manager. ASI would also be responsible for implementation
and coordination of the women's participation program (para 3.21). For the
research program, ASI would be assisted by specialists in pasture and forage
(18 months) and experts in animal breeding and production (12 months).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the former would be employed
for six months per year and the latter for three months per annum, all over a
three-year period.
Ad Hoc Technical Committee
4.08      An ad hoc committee would be established in the project area to func-
tion at an advisory level on matters relating to programs undertaken by the
project, annual investment plans, and any outstanding issues which might arise
between the participating farmers and project management. The chief of ASI
would be chairman of the committee, which would have as members the unit
chiefs of ASI, plus two representatives of project beneficiaries and two
women from the project area who would be elected delegates serving one-year
terms. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
Project Evaluation and Monitoring
4.09      A Monitoring Unit would be set up within ASI to conduct a continuous
study of project activities and to evaluate project performance. This unit
would have a staff of two professionals: one agricultural economist and an
anthropologist sociologist. For the social infrastructure components, the
Monitoring Unit would coordinate data collection with each of the partici-
pating agencies responsible for each of the respective components. Informa-
tion collected to fill data gaps would provide a basis for management decisions
during implementation of the proposed project as well as in future projects
in the Altiplano. Data collection (technical, economic, financial and socio-
logical) would also be directed towards providing project management with
information on how successful the chosen strategy was in achieving basic
project objectives. In addition, it would monitor sub-loans made to farmers
and artisans and would evaluate periodically the impact of the credit program
and training. For the handicraft component, BE, in cooperation with INBOPIA,
would prepare progress reports indicating the number of sub-loans approved,
commitments, disbursements, and cancellation, both by amounts and by geographic
regions. INFOL would send quarterly reports to IDA/Bank highlighting the
progress and operating results of the project. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Monitoring Unit would be established by April 1,
1978 and that quarterly reports would be sent to IDA/Bank within two months
of the end of each quarter.
Participating Institutions
4.10      INFOL would enter into operational agreements with INBOPIA for the
handicrafts component; SNC for the road program; MPSSP for the health compo-
nent and for the water supply and waste disposal system; Ministry of Education



- 27 -
for the education component; IDIF for the solar energy program; and the Wild-
life and National Parks Division for the vicuna conservation and development
program. BAB and BE, under subsidiary agreements with Banco Central, would
act as financial agents for the credit components. The signing of an agree-
ment with each entity, satisfactory to IDA/Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement for each respective component.
4.11      Handicraft.  INBOPIA would be primarily responsible for the handi-
craft component and would enter into a contractual arrangement with BE and the
National Manpower Development Service (FOMO) for implementation of the lending
program, training and radio broadcasting in Spanish, Aymara and Quechua. An
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. INBOPIA would
contract an expert on organization and management (24 months), an expert in
marketing and fair organization (24 months), and short-term consultants in
textile engineering and design (six months) to provide support to INBOPIA on
all aspects relating to the handicraft component. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that the experts would be employed by July 1, 1978 and the
short-term consultants by January 1, 1979 on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA/Bank.
4.12      Roads.  SNC would implement the road program under the direction
of the ASI, which would advise SNC on the priorities for construction and
review the detailed work program prepared by SNC. SNC would conduct field
investigations, prepare engineering plans and design and cost estimates,
operate equipment financed under the project and supply skilled labor to
carry out the work program. Annual maintenance of project roads would be
carried out by SNC by force account. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government would maintain all roads in the project area during
and after the project period and that equipment purchased under the project
would be utilized by SNC for maintenance of project area roads only.
4.13      Health and Water Supply.  MPSSP would be responsible for the con-
struction of health facilities, procurement of equipment, and administration
cf health facilities, and the Department of Public Health of the University
cif San Andres (DPH), under an operational agreement with MPSSP, would be
responsible for implementing the training, monitoring, supervision and evalua-
tion aspects of the health system. Assurances were obtained on the above
cluring negotiations. Also, an assurance was obtained that the Government
would provide the necessary staff with adequate incentives and would maintain
health facilities after the project period. Also, IPSSP would be responsible
f:or installing the hand-pump wells and pit privies, with beneficiaries pro-
vriding the labor for excavation works. MPSSP would supervise the operation of
wells and maintain them, and the beneficiaries would bear the costs of main-
tenance. It would also supervise the maintenance of the pit privies by
beneficiaries. Assurances were obtained that MPSSP would carry out detailed
investigations to determine priority areas to be served and availability of
aquifers and prepare a plan of operation before purchasing pumps.
4.14      Education.  The main responsibility for the implementation of
t:he education component would be delegated to a specialist who would be
contracted locally by the Project Unit managing the Education and Voca-
tional Training Project (Loan 1404-BO) and seconded to INFOL. The Project



- 28 -
Unit would prepare the work program and monitor the progress of the project
with the assistance of the specialist. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the specialist would be recruited by the Project Unit
within three months of loan signing on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA/Bank. Assurances were also obtained that the Government would provide
adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance and repair of all buildings,
furniture and equipment provided under the project.
4.15      Solar Energy.  IDIF would implement the solar energy program.
Demonstration of the practical uses of solar energy devices would be carried
out jointly in selected areas in the Altiplano by ASI and IDIF. INFOL
would contract a solar energy expert to assist with the research program,
particularly in developing and testing simple and low-cost solar energy
devices for heating, cooking, pumping, drying and greenhouse agriculture.
An assurance was obtained that the solar energy expert would be hired by
January 1, 1979 on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA/Bank.
4.16      Vicuna Conservation.  The chief of the unit responsible for the
Experiment Station in Ulla Ulla would be in charge of the daily operations
of the vicuna conservation and development program, coordinating work with
the Wildlife and National Parks Division. INFOL would also take the neces-
sary measures to exchange information and experts in this field with Peru,
Chile and Argentina. It is highly unlikely, however, that the protection
program can be implemented successfully in Bolivia unless the 10-year morato-
rium which expires in 1979 on all killing, marketing and exporting of vicunas'
skin or fleece is extended beyond 1979. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would discuss this matter with Peru, Chile
and Argentina and would support the extension of the moratorium beyond 1979.
Lending Policies and Procedures
4.17      On-farm investment and herd development credit would be channeled
through BAB according to on-going procedures, which have proven satisfactory.
The lending program for the handicraft component would be managed by the
Artisan Section (Schedule A) within BE.
4.18      Sub-loan maturities for alpaca herd development would not exceed
10 years, with grace periods up to four years. Likewise, sub-loan maturities
for handicraft production would not exceed six years, with grace periods up
to 12 months.  For sub-loans for alpaca herd development, security would be
in the form of chattel mortgages on animals. For handicraft, security would
be in the form of machinery and equipment for capital investments and raw
materials and finished products for working capital. The interest rate on
sub-loans would be 12%, which is in keeping with the Government's interest
rate policy for agricultural development projects and in line with the rates
BAB is charging small farmers under IDA Credits 261-BO and 561-BO and Bank
Loan 1211-BO (Schedule A).



- 29 -
4.19      ASI would prepare farm investment plans and loan applications for
alpaca herd development and would carry out technical and financial analyses
of sub-loan applications. Sub-loan applications would be forwarded to BAB
for disbursement of funds after approval by ASI's chief. ASI would super-
vise the collection of sub-loans, with BAB handling the funds. Further,
ASI would assist individual farmers and farmer groups in the implementation
of the farm development plans. The Government would assume the financial
risk and BAB would receive a margin of 2% on outstanding sub-loan balances
for its participation. In order to carry out its responsibility, BAB would
establish an office at ASI facilities in the project area. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.20      INBOPIA would provide technical assistance to artisans in preparing
investment plans and loan requests for handicrafts activity. BE would be
responsible for the technical analysis of each sub-loan and it has agreed
to process and approve applications from individual artisans within seven
days of the date of receipt and within 15 days for group applications.
Following approval, BE would supervise the implementation of each invest-
ment plan. For the lending program, BE would assume the financial risk and
would receive a margin of 3-3/4% on outstanding sub-loan balances (Schedule
A). Funds accruing in the project account (Central Bank) from repayment of
all sub-loans would be established as a revolving fund that would be made
available for further lending for similar purposes. Assurances were obtained
on the lending'terms and conditions listed in Schedule A during negotiations.
Alpacas for Experiment Station and Commercial Farm
4.21      The Experiment Station and commercial farm require about 2,500
alpacas for the research, extension and production program envisaged. There
are two sources of supply -- one within the project area and the Central
Altiplano and the other in Peru, which has about 3 million animals. Obtaining
the animals from Peru would ensure better quality, including more females.
Also, the La Raya Research Station in Peru has indicated its willingness to
provide about 1,500 alpacas to Bolivia in exchange for llamas, provided the
Peruvian law prohibiting export of the animal can be waived. Assurances were
cbtained during negotiations that INFOL, not later than April 1, 1978, would
furnish to IDA/Bank a satisfactory proposal for the purchase of alpacas for
the Experiment Station and the Commercial Farm.
Accounts and Auditing
4.22      INFOL would maintain a separate project account, with sub-accounts
for each project component. Detailed accounting procedures would be estab-
lished for recording all transactions relating to the project. Similarly,
participating institutions responsible for implementing a project component
would also maintain separate project accounts. Assurances were obtained
curing negotiations that INFOL would have its accounts and financial state-
ments, including the project accounts, audited by independent auditors,
satisfactory to IDA/Bank, according to procedures acceptable to IDA/Bank,
and that the audited financial statements and the auditor's report would be
f'orwarded to IDA/Bank within six months of the close of INFOL's fiscal year.



- 30 -
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
5.01      The project would account for substantial production.  Average
annual value of incremental production of fiber collected would amount
to $b 31.9 million (US$1.6 million), including US$1.4 million of alpaca
fiber. These fibers would be processed into yarns amounting to about
$b 88.6 million, or US$4.4 million, including US$3.8 million of alpaca
yarn, which, in turn, would generate incremental sales of $b 129.3 million
(US$6.4 million) of handicraft products. Incremental value of adequately
scoured wool would amount to about $b 7.2 million (US$360,000). Although
total collection of sheep wool is not expected to increase substantially,
better scouring would allow the Bolivian mills to use local wool in the
production of finer yarns, and thereby reduce the industry's dependency
on imported quality yarns and tops. Alpaca meat consumption, which is
confined primarily to the Altiplano, would increase from the present level
of 75 m tons to 543 m tons at full development. Also, about 38,000 breeding
alpacas would be sold locally during the development period.
5.02      The project's incremental production is summarized below:
Incremental Production
Production                              Full    /1
1976     Year 5      Year 10     Development
Alpaca Herd
Total number of head                300,000   13,763        61,586         82,810
Alpaca fiber (m tons)                   132        26          133            330
Llama Fiber Collected (m tons)
Without dehairing technology             55        85           95            112
With dehairing technology                55       175        1,100          1,100
Yarns (m tons)
Alpaca                                   45        21           86            190
Llama
Without dehairing                       -        50           54             60
With dehairing                          -        92          460            355
Acrylic                                   -       122           80              -
Handicraft Products
Value (US$'000)                       4,000*   6,400         6,400          6,400
*    Estimates.
/1   Full development under the livestock credit component would be reached
by year 15, handicraft credit component by year 5, and the collection
and processing component by year 17.



- 31 -
Marketing and Prices
5.03      Marketing.  Under the improved gathering system (para 3.13), INFOL
would be responsible for almost all the fiber collection, as well as the sale
of yarn to artisans and industrial users. The Planning and Monitoring Divi-
sion (PM) of INFOL would collect data and prepare annual wool production
forecasts and estimates of demand for fiber and yarn, and, on the basis of
such information, would establish quotas for textile and handicraft users.
5.04      Bolivia has developed a tourist and export market of artisanal
products; however, the bulk of the handicraft items would be marketed
locally.  Bolivian export legislation discourages the export of raw mate-
rials, imposing a tax of 25% on unprocessed textile raw materials. The
domestic tourist market for these artisanal products is good and is expected
to remain attractive if appropriate product adaptation and market develop-
ment efforts are undertaken. Additionally, the export potential for alpaca/
llama products is high, since they are available in Bolivia and Peru only,
and world demand is such that present supplies (mainly from Peru) are not
sufficient.
5.05      Prices.  The current farmgate prices of alpaca fiber are $b 90 per
kg (US$4.5) for white and an average of $b 56 per kg (US$2.8) for colored.
In Peru prices are usually 15% to 25% higher for white wool and 20% to 30%
higher for colored wool. The selling price of alpaca yarn is currently
US$12.5 per kg, while in Peru the ex-factory price of alpaca yarn is about
US$19 per kg for yarns of about the same quality. INFOL would establish a
pricing mechanism, allowing prices of yarns to be adjusted to reflect
production cost, and, likewise, farmgate prices to be adjusted to follow the
Peruvian prices.
Pioducer Benefits
5.06      Income of beneficiaries from the enterprises to be financed under
the project would increase significantly, as shown below, providing sufficient
incentive to project beneficiaries to participate in the investment program.



- 32 -
Farmers' Cash Income
With Project         Investment
Without           at Full /1              Cost
Project         Development          Per Family
__US__------ US$ per family -----------------
Livestock Production
Model 1 (100-alpaca herd,
2 families)                     73                 825                    10
Model 2 (400-alpaca herd,
5 families)                     93                 997                   669
Model 3 (1,000-alpaca herd,
12 families)                     98               1,038                  625
Model 4 (5,000-alpaca herd,
55 families)                    106               1,114                   655
Handicraft Production
Model 1, one family                974               1,833                   275
Model 2, group of 30 artisans    314                    512                  200
/1   Full development under livestock production would be reached by year 12
and handicraft production by year 7.
5.07      Farmers' cash income includes remuneration of family labor; however,
it does not include extra benefits of home consumption of fiber for family
clothes, but its value, about US$10 per family, is negligible. In addition,
the collection, storage and processing units would generate average annual
net profits after tax, debt service and depreciation of US$233,000 during
debt repayment and US$1.9 million afterwards. The commercial farm in Ulla
Ulla would yield a profit of about US$27,500 at full development (year 12).
5.08      The financial rates of return on investments are summarized below:
Financial Rate of Return   No. of Sub-loans
(%)
Livestock Production
Model 1 (100-alpaca herd)                      above 100                   440
Model 2 (400-alpaca herd)                             40                   260
Model 3 (1,000-alpaca herd)                           35                    32
Model 4 (5,000-alpaca herd)                           34                     4
Collection, Storage and Processing                    29                     1
Handicraft Production
Model 1 (1 family)                             above 100                  680
Model 2 (30 artisans)                          above 100                   90



- 33 -
The financial rates of return on the livestock models are high because the
value of fiber production more than doubles the first year that shearing is
practiced every year instead of every second year, as well as because of
immediate revenues from animal sales. The high rates may also be attributed
to improvements in marketing and extension services and to adoption of im-
proved farming rather than to the amount of the initial investment. The
rates of return on the handicraft models are also high, which may be attri-
buted to the small investments required since handicraft actually is labor
intensive and to the immediate return on the incremental working capital.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project is designed to reach the Altiplano rural poor, who until
now have received only sporadic and limited assistance for economic and social
advancement.  Together with the Ingavi Project (Loan 1211-BO), the proposed
project would provide the basis for long-range development of the Altiplano.
Initially, the project would provide assistance to families living in the
Ulla Ulla region of the Altiplano where Bolivia's poverty is most severe and
widespread and it would promote the development of the wool industry, which,
with agriculture, forms the backbone of the rural sector of the Altiplano.
The relatively high investment costs, particularly of social infrastructure
components under the project, are necessary conditions for economic develop-
ment in the project area as well as for the development of the wool industry,
which has implications beyond the project area.
6.02      The wool textile industry as a whole would benefit from the project
through improvement of research, extension and farming systems at the produc-
tion level; improvement and expansion of marketing infrastructure; moderniza-
tion of the processing facilities; and development of llama dehairing tech-
nology. Establishment of an effective research/extension infrastructure in the
project area would have substantial impact on alpaca/llama fiber production
and utilization of resources. Annual incremental production of alpaca at full
development would be about 330 m tons, and yarn production would amount to
250 m tons, including 190 m tons of alpaca yarn. Development of the llama
fiber dehairing technology would increase llama fiber production significantly.
A conservative estimate places potential llama fiber production after dehair-
ing at about 800 m tons annually. Improvement in the marketing facilities and
the establishment of an effective pricing mechanism would drastically reduce
the flow of alpaca raw material into Peru, which is currently estimated at
40% of total production in the project area.
6.03      The handicraft industry, which is a vital source of supplementary
income and employment for about 200,000 poor rural and urban families, as
well as of supplemental foreign exchange, would also benefit from the project
through provision of credit and technical assistance to about 3,400 small
rural and artisan families. At full development, the annual incremental value
of handicraft items is estimated at US$6.4 million. Under project conditions,
a typical artisan family with three of its members actively engaged in making
alpaca/llama/sheep wool-based handicraft items could earn a cash family income
of about US$1,800.



- 34 -
6.04      Under the project about 2,500 farm families would participate
directly in the livestock development program. Beneficiaries in the project
area (about 2,000) are in the poverty group, and, under improved conditions,
it is expected that the average farm family income at full development (year
12) would increase from less than US$100 to US$896. The establishment of
centers and provision of training programs for women in the project area would
improve basic skills and productivity, thereby increasing the participation of
women in the development process. The health and welfare of the 3,000 families
living in the project area would also improve as a result of better roads,
health services, education, and domestic water supplies and waste disposal
facilities at an investment cost of US$759 per family. Additional external
benefits would also be received by persons living outside the project area
through use of roads and health facilities.
6.05      The vicuna conservation and development program would increase the
herd size of vicuna, which is presently an endangered species, to a level
sufficient to permit commercial exploitation of its high-value product.
Likewise, exploitation of solar energy, which is an important resource in
the Altiplano, and the development of simple, low-cost solar energy-using
devices would complement the non-commercial energy sources and would meet
the critically needed energy requirements of the rural poor in the Altiplano.
6.06      Also, the project would be directly responsible for the employment
of 290 persons and would substantially reduce underemployment of beneficiaries
in the project area and of artisans in the rural areas. In addition, the
project would have substantial impact on institution building. INFOL, the
newly created institution for regulating the growth of the wool textile
industry, and INBOPIA, for the development of the handicraft industry, would
be strengthened under the project.
6.07      The overall economic rate of return of the project is 25%, calcu-
lated on the basis of costs relating to livestock production; project unit
facilities; collection, storage and processing of raw materials; roads;
administration costs of INFOL; handicraft production; incremental adminis-
trative costs of INBOPIA; and artisans' training program (FOMO). Benefits
taken into account include those from livestock development, commercial farm,
collection system, processing plant, and development of the handicraft indus-
try. The economic rate of return is 18% for the livestock development
component, the cost of which is US$5.1 million; 30% for wool collection;
storage and processing, the cost of which is US$4.9 million; and 70% for the
handicraft component, the cost of which is US$3.0 million. If the benefits of
the llama dehairing technology are included, then the overall economic rate
of return of the project increases from 25 to 32% (Annex 18).
6.08      Finally, the proposed project, with the Ingavi Rural Development
Project (Loan 1211-BO), would provide the basis for a long-range program to
develop other areas of the Altiplano.  Similar projects could be carried out
in other areas within the Altiplano without placing too much of a burden on
Government finances. The average annual Government contribution during the
implementation period and after project completion would be less than 1% of
the annual public capital expenditures.



- 35 -
Project Risk
6.09      Unlike the Ingavi Rural Development Project (Loan 1211-BO), climatic
variation would not be a critical factor inasmuch as the proposed project
focuses on livestock rather than agricultural crops. In view of COMBOFLA's
weaknesses and since the proposed project would initiate, for the first time
in Bolivia, a comprehensive development program, there is need for the estab-
lishment of a multi-disciplinary organizational structure cutting across
existing institutional lines.. The creation of INFOL would ensure an orderly
development of the wool-textile industry.
6.10      Various components under the project exhibit strong complementarity
and the benefits generated by the unified infusion of these inter-related
components in a single package far exceeds those of piecemeal implementation
of the components. Recognizing that the implementation of some components
may pose some unwarranted risks, the project has included technical assistance
and attractive remuneration in order to attract highly qualified staff and
thus, hopefully, reduce the apparent risk of increasing delays from occurring.
6.11      It is only realistic to expect that, during implementation, delays
and problems are likely to occur which are completely different than those
foreseen during project preparation and appraisal. The likelihood of such
occurrences is particularly enhanced by the fact that the project contains a
Large number of unique components, many of which have never been tested before
by the Bank under field conditions in Bolivia or elsewhere. In view of these
uncertainties, the project would have to be monitored exceedingly closely and
modifications may have to be introduced quickly during the implementationi of
the project, as is the case with the Ingavi Rural Development project. The
Bolivian Government is fully aware of these uncertainties but is giving the
highest priority to the implementation of the project and considers the Bank's
support of crucial importance.
Ecological Impact
6.12      The proposed project is expected to have a positive environmental
impact. Improvement of herd and range management practices would lead to a
better balance between animal resources and the carrying capacity of the land,
and thereby reduce soil erosion. Provision of sanitation facilities would
reduce environmental contamination. Improved health care services, housing
conditions, water supply and personal hygiene practices would improve ecolo-
gical conditions and protect beneficiaries from harmful elements in the
environment. The vicuna conservation and development program is designed to
protect this endangered species by improving the balance between vicuna popu-
lation and its natural habitat.
Fiscal Impact
6.13      For the productive investment component of the project, investment
costs would be recovered through the credit mechanism, and operating costs
would be partially financed through credit and partially paid directly by
the beneficiaries and INFOL. Other cash costs relating to productive support



- 36 -
and social infrastructure components and administration would not be re-
covered. The primary fiscal impact would arise from taxation of profits of
the processing plant, with average annual revenue amounting to US$163,000.
INFOL's processing plant would yield average annual net earnings of US$233,000
during the plant's 15-year debt repayment period and US$1.9 million there-
after to the Government. A secondary area of fiscal impact would be revenues
from net earnings of artisans but the magnitude would be insignificant
(US$10,000 per annum). The Government's annual contribution after project
completion would amount to US$0.8 million. Considering the above earnings
generated by the project to the Government, the net annual contribution would
not place any strain on Government's annual public capital expenditure budget.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) profits of the commercial farm would be shared by the
communities which contributed land to the Government for
establishment of the project facilities, and, at full
development, i.e., after 10 years, INFOL would transfer the
commercial farm to the donor communities for operation as a
cooperative enterprise; to this end INFOL would submit to
IDA/Bank by January 1, 1982, a proposal outlining the
terms and conditions under which the commercial farm would
be transferred to the communities who contributed land (para
3.07);
(b) the Government and INFOL would initiate negotiations for the
purchase of dehairing technology and submit a proposal for
Bank consideration not later than June 30, 1978, and, should
the Government negotiate purchase of appropriate technology,
acceptable to IDA/Bank, any costs in excess of allocations
for the development of llama dehairing technology under the
project would be assumed by the Government (para 3.22);
(c) the Government and INFOL would support the research program
for llama dehairing with adequate funds in the event that
research is carried beyond the three and one-half year period
(para 3.23);
(d) funds -accruing in the project account from the credit program
would be available for further lending and for similar purposes
(para 3.29);



- 37 -
(e) any replacement of INFOL's general manager and ASI's chief
would be subject to IDA/Bank approval (para 4.02);
(f) the Government and INFOL would submit a proposal to IDA/Bank
by October 31, 1978 for comments on the pricing mechanism
and the stabilization fund and outlining how the program
would be carried out (para 4.04);
(g) all requests for construction of new wool processing plants or
expansion of existing capacity would be approved by the Government
only after consultations with INFOL (para 4.04);
(h) INFOL would not engage in handicraft activities and would
submit a proposal to IDA/Bank by September 1, 1978, outlining
how workers at the Pulacayo processing plant would be ade-
quately compensated when this plant's operation is terminated
on completion of the new processing plant (para 4.05);
(i)  INFOL would supply FOTRAMA with the necessary alpaca fiber
to meet its annual requirement subject to a ceiling of 50 m
tons equivalent (para 4.05);
(j) INFOL would establish an ad hoc committee in the project area,
composed of the Chief of ASI, unit chiefs of ASI, plus two
representatives of project beneficiaries and two women from the
project area who would be elected delegates serving one-year
terms to function at an advisory level on matters relating to
programs undertaken by the project, annual investment plans,
and any outstanding issues which might arise between the
participating farmers and project management (para 4.08);
(k) INFOL would establish the project Monitoring Unit by April 1,
1978 and quarterly progress reports would be sent to IDA/Bank
within two months of the end of each quarter (para 4.09);
(1) INBOPIA would enter into a contractual arrangement with the
State Bank (BE) and FOMO for implementation of the lending
program, training and radio broadcasting relating to the
handicraft component (para 4.11);
(m)  the Government would maintain all roads in the project area
during and after the project period and that equipment
purchased under the project would be utilized by SNC for
maintenance of project area roads only (para 4.12);
(n) DPH, under an operational agreement with MPSSP, would be
responsible for implementing the training, monitoring,
supervision and evaluation aspects of the health system
(para 4.13);



- 38 -
(o) the Government would provide the necessary staff with
adequate incentives and would maintain health facilities
after the project completion period (para 4.13);
(p) for the water supply and waste disposal facilities, MPSSP would
carry out detailed investigations to determine priority areas
to be served and availability of aquifers and prepare a plan of
operation before purchasing pumps (para 4.13);
(q) a specialist would be recruited for the education program
within three months of loan signing on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA/Bank, and the Government would
provide adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance
and repair of all buildings, furniture and equipment provided
under the project (para 4.14);
(r)  the consultants to be contracted by INFOL would be employed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA/Bank in
the time frame specified in paras 4.02, 4.05, 4.07, 4.11 and
4.15;
(s) the Government would support the extension of the moratorium
on all killing, marketing and exporting of vicunas' skin
or fleece beyond 1979 (para 4.16);
(t) the Government would cause BAB to establish an office at the
project facilities in Ulla Ulla (para 4.19);
(u) INFOL would provide sub-loans to project beneficiaries
according to the lending terms and conditions listed in
Schedule A and funds accruing in the project account from
repayments of all sub-loans would be made available for
further lending for similar purposes (para 4.20);
(v) INFOL, not later than April 1, 1978, would furnish to IDA/Bank
a satisfactory proposal for the purchase of alpacas for the
Experiment Station and Commercial Farm (para 4.21); and
(w) INFOL would have its accounts and financial statements,
including the project accounts, audited by independent
auditors, satisfactory to IDA/Bank, according to procedures
acceptable to IDA/Bank, and the audited financial statements
and the auditors' report would be forwarded to IDA/Bank
within six months of the close of INFOL's fiscal year
(para 4.22).
7.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Financing Agree-
ment had been executed on behalf of the Government and INFOL.



- 39 -
7.03      A condition of disbursement for each respective component of the
project would be that INFOL would enter into agreements with participating
agencies, satisfactory to IDA/Bank, and that Banco Central and BAB and BE
had signed subsidiary agreements (para 4.10).
7.04      With the assurances obtained, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$9 million and a Bank loan of US$9 million at standard terms for
Bolivia.
December 27, 1977






- 40 -
Schedule A
BOLIVIA
ULLA nLLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.        On-farm investments and herd development credit would be channeled
through the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia (BAB) and the lending program for
the handicraft component would be managed by the Artisan Section within the
State Bank (BE).
2.        On-Farm Investments and Herd Development.  About 70% of the total
credit for alpaca herd development would be earmarked for lending in the
project area and the remaining 30% in the Central Altiplano. In selecting sub-
borrowers priority would be given to farmers who live on a farm and engage in
raising alpacas and have agreed to accept ASI's supervision of farm develop-
pment.
3.        Sub-loans would be made to improve the traditional shearing techniques
and the fiber handling and classifying practices, and also for construction of
facilities for implementing a sound animal health program including improved
animal husbandry and range management practices. Major'investment items would
include spray-bath facilities, holding corrals, shearing sheds, fiber classifi-
cation and storage sheds, mechanical shearing equipment, fences, drugs and
live animals. Minor investment items would include medical kits, hand shears,
scales, fiber classifying tables and identification tags.
4.        ASI would carry out technical and financial analyses of sub-loan appli-
cations. The extension staff would prepare farm investment plans and loan re-
quests. When considering applications for sub-loans, special attention would be
given to forage availability, the need to introduce new animal husbandry and
range management methods to substitute or improve the traditional practices, the
availability of technical assistance and assurance of marketing channels for the
proposed fiber and pelt production.
5.        Sub-loan applications would be forwarded to BAB for disbursement of
funds after approval of ASI's chief. ASI would assist individual farmers and
farmer groups in the implementation of the farm development plans and would
authorize disbursements for the Agricultural Bank (BAB) as the implementation
stages of the plans were completed. Also, ASI in collaboration with the farmers
would maintain financial and technical records of activities for selected farm
operations for use in measuring project impact.
6.        Handicraft.  BE with its 35 district offices in rural areas and eight
regional offices would facilitate the credit program. The program would give
priority to making sub-loans to individuals or groups of rural artisans although
urban artisans and shops involved in the production of alpaca/llama/sheep wool
would be considered. Priority for lending would be given to the Departments of
La Paz and Cochabamba.which account for the bulk of artisan activity.



I



- 41 -
Schedule A
7.        Sub-loans would be for the purchase of raw materials and for the
purchase oL knitting and weaving machinery and for the establishment of small
shops for production of handicraft items. The maximum amount any individual
artisan would be eligible to borrow under this program would be US$3,000 equiva-
lent. Groups of artisans would be entitled to an amount not in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent per group, association or cooperative. Authority to
approve sub-loan applications up to US$5,000 equivalent would rest with each
district office, while applications for between US$5,000 and US$20,000 equiv-
alent would require approval by the regional offices. Approval for sub-loans
about US$20,000 equivalent would be granted by the headquarters office in La
Paz. Collaterals for capital investment would consist of the machinery and
equipment of the sub-borrower, and for the working capital it would consist of
the raw materials and finished goods.
8.        Procedures for sub-loan application and approval would be simplified
without lowering the evaluation quality of each application. Each applicant
would complete a simple application form which would be obtained either from
INBOPIA or BE. Applications from groups of artisans would be required to pre-
sent standard evidence of their legal status. INBOPIA would provide technical
assistance to artisans in preparing investment plans and loan requests. BE
has agreed that it would approve applications received from individual artisans
not later than seven days from the date of receipt and not later than 15 days
for group applications. Following approval, BE would supervise the implemen-
tation of each investment plan.
Sub-loans to Farmers and Artisans
9.   (a)  Sub-loans to farmers, farmer groups and artisans would carry an
interest rate of 12% on the outstanding sub-loan balances;
(b) Contributions to investment cost by sub-borrowers would be in
the form of labor in kind, and cash contributions on voluntary
basis;
(c) Maturities and grace periods would not exceed the following:
Type of Development                                Maturity      Grace Period
-----   Years-----------
On-farm investments and herd development              10              4
Handicraft development                                 6              1
(d) Security would be in the form of chattel mortgage on animals in
the case of sub-loans for alpaca herd development; and machinery
and equipment for capital investments and raw materials and
finished products for working capital in the case of sub-loans
for handicraft activity.



- 42 -
Schedule A
Government Lending (Central Bank)
A.   BAB
1. Interest rate to BAB would be 10%.
2. BAB would be reimbursed for 100% of disbursements on sub-loans.
3. BAB would make payments of both interest and principal to the
Central Bank as they were received from sub-borrowers.
4. Government would take financial risk on loan portfolio.
5. Central Bank would receive a commission of 1/4% on outstanding
sub-loan balances.
6. For its services, BAB would receive a margin of 2% on outstand-
ing sub-loan balances.
7. Funds accruing in the project account (Central Bank) from repay-
ment of sub-loans would be made available for further lending for
similar purposes.
B.   BSB
1. The interest rate to BE would be 8%.
2. BE would be reimbursed for 100% of disbursement on sub-loans.
3. BE would assume financial risk and would receive a margin of
3-3/4% on outstanding sub-loan balances.
4. Central Bank would receive a commission of 1/4% on outstanding
sub-loan balances.
5. Repayments of sub-loans would be made available for further
lending for handicraft production.
6. Funds accruing in the project account (Central Bank) from repay-
ment of sub-loans would be made available for further lending
for similar purposes.
December 8, 1977



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research and Extension Component
Background
1.        Agricultural research and extension in Bolivia are inadequate and
fail to meet the needs of the agricultural sector. Until recently, research
and extension applications have been subject to poor planning, insufficient
funds, lack of adequate staff, and an absence of a sound organizational
structure and a well defined nationwide program.
2.        There are only two agricultural experiment stations in the Altiplano
(Patacamaya and Belen), and the principal focus of research is on potatoes,
wheat, forages, and sheep. Bolivia has about 2.2 million llamas and 0.3
million alpacas, which constitute an important resource in the Altiplano and
are the principal source of livelihood for a large portion of the region's
rural population, but research and studies related to alpacas and llamas are
almost negligible. The Patacamaya station is now carrying out some selected
research on llama; however, the program is small and does not have high
priority. Compared to Peru, which accounts for over 50% of the world's alpaca
and llama resources, Bolivia is about 10 to 15 years behind in research
relating to alpaca development. Development of the alpaca and llama resources
would depend, to a large extent, on a sound and viable research and extension
system in the Altiplano.
3.        The Government has recognized the need to improve and strengthen the
research and extension programs, and in 1975 it created the National Institute
for Agricultural Technology (IBTA) as an executing agency for research and ex-
tension throughout the country. IBTA's primary functions are to formulate and
implement policies pertaining to research, technical assistance and rural ex-
tension, and to promote and coordinate research and extension activities. It
is also expected that IBTA would be instrumental in improving and strengthening
the agricultural research capability.
Research and Extension Programs under the Project
4.        The proposed project would finance a research program to improve
development of alpaca and llama breeds and would make provision for technical
veterinary services to farmers participating in the project. An Experiment
Station would be set up in the project area for the execution of a research
program for the development of alpaca and llama herds, with emphasis on im-
proving farming systems, feed base, quality of animal breed, and range and
herd management practices. Also, a commercial farm (alpacas and llamas)
would be established for the implementation of improved techniques currently
available as well as those that would be developed at the Experiment Station
and for demonstration.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
5.        Experiment Station.  The Experiment Station facilities, including
the commercial farm, would encompass an area of about 4,000 ha. The Experi-
ment Station would be provided with laboratory equipment and facilities for
research on low-cost production systems and on parasitology, bacteriology,
biology, pastures, and animal nutrition as they relate to alpacas and llamas.
In addition, there would be office space for administrative and research
staff, living quarters for single and married staff, cafeteria facilities,
and housing for guests and persons attending training courses and seminars.
In view of the low temperatures that are predominant throughout the year,
buildings would also be provided with heating facilities. Electricity would
be generated from two 60-kw generators, and drinking water would be obtained
from a deep well system.
6.        Applied research on alpacas and llamas would cover five fields of
investigation:
(a) internal and external parasites, with emphasis on intestinal
and skin parasites;
(b) reproduction, focusing on factors which affect fertility and
color transmission. Proper breeding cycles and lactation
periods would be studied as a function of seasonal variations
in the weather;
(c) fiber quality and characteristics;
(d) nutrition, closely related to the research on forage conducted
in the area; and
(e) herd and range' management practices.
In the initial period, the Experiment Station, would utilize the results already
obtained from basic and applied research on alpaca, particularly at the La Raya
Experiment Station in Peru. In the short run, the aim would be to generate farm
improvements and eliminate some production constraints by adaptation of existing
technology.
7.        Research on range management and development would be carried out by
an agronomist and an assistant on a full-time basis, and work would emphasize
range management practices that could be introduced in the communal lands of
the peasant groups. The adaptability of different types of forage to the con-
ditions prevailing in the Ulla Ulla area and their behavior under irrigation
would also be investigated.
8.        The rangelands would be inventoried and mapped according to sites and
classified in types of ranges from the management standpoint, i.e., in view of
soils, plant cover, and ecological conditions. Range management plans and
prescribed treatments would be based on this and subsequent survey information
and on the year-long needs of the grazing animals. The conditions of the range,
soil and plant cover would be monitored continuously through the use of visual
inspection, transversal cuts at regular intervals and fenced-off study plots.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
9.        Since there are no data available on experiments with seeded pastures
on cultivated land in the project area, small-scale trials would be conducted
at the lower elevations on more mature soils, both with and without supple-
mental irrigation. The emphasis in these trials would be to extend the green-
grass grazing season into the dry winter period, at which time the native
rangelands are producing much less high quality forage. These experimental
plots would be fenced to control grazing animals.
10.       Similar experiments would be conducted with new and improved range
forage plant species, but because of the uncertainty of the economics and
biological aspects, range plant species adaptation trials would be carried
out on an experimental basis, guided by trained research personnel. It is
likely that a large number of untried plant species (yellow blossom sweet
clover, white sweet clover, alsike clover, ladino clover, and possibly, the
grasses alta fescue and Russian wildrye), are adaptable to the area and would
merit the risk of modest investments in field-scale trials. Such trials would
be initiated at the lower altitude areas, with some small-scale tests in the
higher regions under varied conditions. Plots in the latter areas would be
chosen only where adequate moisture can be assured, either from natural ground-
water, from overflow, or from supplemental irrigation.
11.       The Experiment Station would include a 20-ha irrigation scheme to
produce forage for the experimental station's use and a supply of grass seeds
for farmers to utilize in the project area. Also, the irrigation scheme would
determine the technical and economic feasibility of using irrigation to in-
crease the carrying capacity of rangeland since about 8,000 ha of land can be
irrigated in the project area. The research data in both rainfed and irrigated
systems would be compiled and analyzed for the benefit of immediate and future
improvement of the forage productivity in the project area.
12.       The irrigation system would be a simple on-farm gravity type, tap-
ping about 100 liters/second of water from a nearby perennial stream. The
flow would be conveyed by a feeder to the main ditch and distributed to each
of the 2-ha plots through secondary and tertiary ditches. The system would
be lined with soil cement to prevent seepage. Land grading, drains and farm
roads would be provided as necessary. The main distribution features would
involve feeder and main ditches totaling about 500 m, secondary ditches total-
ing 1,220 m, and tertiary ditches totaling 2,000 m. The system would include
control structures and measuring devices as listed in Table 1.
13.       Demonstration and adaptive work on plants would be coordinated with
the work at Belen and Patacamaya Experiment Stations of IBTA in order to
demonstrate the range potential of the project area. Range management plans
and prescribed treatments would be based on survey information and the year-
long needs of the grazing animals.
14.       Commercial Farm.  The commercial farm would be compatible to the
existing farming system in the project area and would include about 2,500 ha
of range land and operate with about 1,500 alpacas and about 370 llamas bought
locally and from Peru. The farm would operate as a commercial enterprise and



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
would serve as a demonstration unit, adopting improved range management and
animal husbandry practices developed at the Experiment Station. The chief of
the commercial farm, reporting directly to the Director of the Agricultural
and Social Infrastructure Division, would be responsible for the management
and day-to-day activities of the commercial farm, and he would be supported
by a staff of 10, mainly herders and farm hands. Profits of the commercial
farm would be shared by the communities which contributed land to the Govern-
ment for the establishment of. the Project Unit facilities, including the
Experiment Station and the commercial farm. At full development, i.e.,
after 10 years, the Government would transfer the commercial farm to the
donor communities to be operated as a cooperative enterprise.
Technical Services
15.       The project would provide technical assistance to farmers on im-
proved technology for animal husbandry, in improved herd and range manage-
ment practices, and in preparation and implementation of farm development
plans. The primary technical assistance system would require extension
agents, a sociologist and technicians in the fields of livestock develop-
ment and range management.
16.       The extension agents would initially focus their work on establish-
ing a line of communication and trust between themselves and farmers in the
project area and on delivering improved technology for alpaca development.
They would be assisted by researchers and would provide the essential practi-
cal feedback from the field to the Experiment Station. They would use the
commercial farm for demonstration purposes and for introduction of improved
technology to farmers. The extension staff would provide technical assist-
ance to the campesino groups in regard to management decisions on develop-
ment technology in various fields and supply price and marketing information
to farmers. They would also assist in making investments in range and
pasture improvement and in livestock; in the purchase of inputs and sale of
products; in implementating a system of production management; in training
sub-technicians and campesino groups; and in preparing investment plans for
sub-loan applications.
17.       The extension staff would also be responsible for providing veteri-
nary assistance to the project beneficiaries. Part of the assistance would
be in the form of training in the use (field-days and on-the-farm demonstra-
tions) of simple procedures for control and prevention of internal and ex-
ternal parasites, and first aid and other practices as part of the overall
herd management program. The verterinary service would be supported by the
laboratory technicians and facilities of the Project Unit. Tests of blood,
feces, tissues, etc., necessary for diagnosis would be conducted by the
pertinent laboratory. The veterinary service would be provided free of
charge, however, any medicines required would be paid for by the project
beneficiaries.
18.       In order to improve the overall effectiveness of the extension
system and to improve communications between extension personnel and the tar-
get group, local cadres would be selected and trained in animal husbandry and



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
range management practices. Each cadre would specialize in shearing, range
development and herd management. The impact of extension forces, thereby
would be expanded. Over the years these para-extension personnel would acquire
permanent skills in a limited range of basic tasks and, in their villages,
would gain prestige as experts. The more adept personnel could become
trainers for other villages in the project area, thereby extending substan-
tially the coverage of the extension force. Also, the para-extension workers
would assist extension staff in preparing farm plans to serve as bases for
sub-loan applications.
19.       Provision would be made in the project unit facilities for a class-
room and dormitory for persons attending training courses conducted by project
staff or by outside consultants. This would be an important aspect of long-
term planning to improve the extension delivery system. The leaders of farmer
group units and the para-extension workers would be the priority candidates
for these training courses.
20.       The research and extension system would have a total of 41 staff
members, including four research staff, four laboratory technicians, six enten-
sion agents, one farm manager and 25 laborers and herders. In order to ensure
that the Experiment Station has adequate professional staff to perform its
functions, it would reach the following personnel levels by the dates indicated.
Type of Staff                 June 1, 1978        June 1, 1979        Jan. 1, 1980
----------------------number---------------------
Chief of research                    1
Parasitologist                                         1
Bacteriologist                                         1
Animal nutritionist                                    1
Laboratory technicians                                 2                  4
Head of extension                  1
Extension agents                                      6
Farm manager                                           1
21.       In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, the National
Institution for the Development of Wool (INFOL) would pay the following
salaries to the staff level indicated:
Staff Level                              Monthly Salary            Annual Salary
($b)                     ($b)
Chief of research                           21,300                   297,800
Parasitologist                            17,900                   250,200
Bacteriologist                            17,900                   250,200
Animal nutritionist                       17, 900                  250,200
Laboratory technician                     15,300                   214,400
Head of extension                         21,300                   297,800
Agronomist   (extensionist)               17,900                   250,200
Veterinarian (extensionist)               17,900                   250,200
Chief of commercial farm                  15,300                   214,400



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Cost Estimates and OperatinS Results
22.       The total investment cost of the project facilities excluding the
commercial farm, would amount to $b 29.4 million (US$1.5 million) Table 2.
Civil works would account for 32% of total investment costs and would amoun
to $b 16.1 million, or US$803,000 (Table 3). Total investment costs of t -
nical assistance, which would include specialists in pastures and forages.
animal breeding and production, and fellowships and training for local stpr-
would amount to be $b 3.5 million (US$175,000). The total investment cost of
the irrigation system would be $b 646,000, or US$32,000 (Table 4). Total
operating costs of project facilities would be $b 38.6 million (US$2.0 million).
Details of investment and operating costs are shown in Table 3.
23.       The total investment cost of the commercial farm would amount to
$b 2.1 million (US$105,000). A cost breakdown is shown in Table 5, and herd
and production projections in Tables 6, 7, and 8. Earnings and cost estimates
appear in Table 9 and cash flow projections are shown in Table 10.
Implementation
24.       The Agricultural and Social Infrastructure Division (ASI) of the
National Institution for the Development of Wool (INFOL) would be directly
responsible for the management and administration of the Experiment Station
and the commercial farm. Specialists in animal production and experts on
pastures and forages would be contracted by INFOL to assist with the research
program (Appendix 1). The chief of the commercial farm would be an individual
with practical experience in livestock operation and management. He would be
responsible for providing the necessary assistance to the chief of ASI; prepar-
ing annual investment and work plans for the commercial farm; hiring and super-
vising the work of the labor on the farm; purchasing and selling livestock and
fiber; budgeting and record keeping; would collaborate with the Credit and Ex-
tension Division of ASI, a farm development program to demonstrate to local
farmers the benefits of applying pasture rotation, utilizing veterinarian
services and introducing improved range and alpaca breed management. Also, he
would coordinate the commercial farm's program with the work of the Experiment
Station.
25.       The chief of the Experiment Station would be a professional with
research and livestock development experience and practical experience in
experiment station administration and management. His principal responsibi'-
ities would be to prepare annual investment and research work programs, estt-i.
lish research priorities, coordinate and supervise the work of the technicaL
staff of the Experiment Station. For the research program, he would maintain
a close liaison with the Belen and Patacamaya Experiment Stations in Bolivia
and with the La Raya Experiment Station in Peru.
December 8, 1977



49-                               ANNEX  1
Table 1
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Measuring Devices and Equipment
Irrigation System
Investment Costs
Total Cost
Scientific Instruments                       Units                        ($b)
Parshall flume                           2                          500
Rain gage                                1                        1,000
Thermometer                              1                        1,000
Evaporation pan                          1                        1,000
Anemometer                               1                        1,000
Current meter (set)                      1                        6,000
Lysimeter                                1                        5,000
Radiation gage                           1                        1,000
16,500
Equipment and Vehicles
Jeep                                     1                      110,000
Truck                                    1                      180,000
Tools                                   L/S                      50,000
340,000
June 17, 1977



-  50  -                                   ANNEX  1
Table 2
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Facilities
Investment Costs
Unit         Total
No. of         Cost         Cost
Units         $b           $b'000
Civil Works
Construction - square meters
Guest house                                      700.6        4,025        2,820
Administration building                          373.4        4,025        1,503
Laboratory building                              569.5        4,025        2,292
Houses (3)                                       378.0        4,025        1,521
Generator shed                                    31.0        3,450          107
Workers' living quarters                         573.0        2,300        1,318
Mechanic's repair shop                           500.0        2,162        1,081
Warehouse                                        108.0        2,990          323
Warehouse office                                  12.0        4,025           48
Shearing facilities: fiber storage               162.0        4,025          652
Shearing facilities: holding corral              300.0          759          228
Shearing facilities: shearing area               450.0        2,990        1,345
Site works                                                                       1,500
Sub-total                                                                 14,738
Professional Fees on Civil Works                                                 1,327
Total civil works                                                         16,065
Agricultural Machinery
Wheel tractor - 80 hp                              1        360,000          360
Tractor implements                                                           421
Total agricultural machinery                                                 781
Livestock                                                                           597
Equipment and Furniture
Laboratory equipment                                                       1,600
Guest house equipment                                                        400
Office equipment                                                             125
Audio visual equipment                                                        62
Communications equipment                                                     140
Electric power system                                                        906
Fuel storage tanks and pumps                                                 220
Heating equipment                                                            224
Domestic water supply                                                      1,000
Waste disposal system                                                        418
Farm development equipment                                                   309
Livestock equipment                                                          323
Furniture                                                                    705
Miscellaneous                                                                 25
Total  equipment and furniture                                             6,457
Vehicles
4-wheel drive, 7 passenger                         6        160,000          960
4-wheel drive pick-up                              2        170,000          340
Carry-all, 4-wheel drive                           2        200,000          400
Truck, 5 ton                                       1        300,000          300
Total vehicles                                                             2,000
Sub-total &                                                               25,900
Technical Assistance
Research and production                                                    2,160
Fellowship                                                                 1,370
Total  technical assistance                                                3,530
Total  investment cost                                                           29,430
Physical contingencies                                                            2,943
(10% of irvestment cost)                                                       32,373
June 15, 1977



BOLIVIA
JLLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Project Facilities
-----------------------Years------------------              Total           Total          Foreign          Foreign
1          2           3          4           5          Cost            Cost           Exchange        Exchange
-S---------- --  --- - --$b'000--_-_-_-_-_-_-_          -                 us$ e0ooo          $               us$
Investment Costs
Civil works  2/                                               8,253       7,812                                -          16,065           803              28             221
Equipment:
Laboratory equipment                                       1,600       -             -                     -            1,600            80             90               72
Agricultural machinery                                       781        -            -          -          -              781            39             90               35
Livestock equipment                                          -           323         -          -          -              323             16            90               14
Vehicles                                                   1,160         840         -          -          -            2,000           100             95               95
Furniture                                                    -           670         35         -          -              705            35             40               14
Electric power system                                        906         -           -          -          -              906            45              90              40
Water supply                                               1,000         -           -          -          -            1,000            50              60              30
Waste disposal                                               418         -           -          -          -              418            21             60               13
Guest house equipment                                        400         -           -          -          -              400            20             60               12
Livestock (1,000)                                            _           -          597         -          -              597            30             65               20
Farm development                                             309         _           _                                    309             15            45                7
Audio visual equipment                                       -            62          -         -           -               62             3             90               3
Communication equipment                                      140         -           -          -          -              140              7            90                6
Office equipment                                             -           125         -          -          -               125             6            60                4
Fuel storage                                                 -           220         -          -          -              220            11             40                4
Heating system                                               -           224         -          -           -              224            11             90              10
Miscellaneous                                                -           -           25         -           -               25             2              -               -
6,714      2,464         657         -          -            9,835           492             77             379
Technical assistance
Research and production specialists                          -           720      1,440         -          -            2,160           108            200              108
Fellowships                                                  _           685        685         -          -            1,370            68            100               68
Sub-total                    -        1,405      2,125         -           -            3,530           176            100             176
Irrigation  system                                              646         -            -         -           -              646            32             50              16
Total investment costs                     15,613      11,681      2,782         -          -           30,076         1,503              53             792
Operating Costs
Salaries                                                      1,248       5,754      5,754      5,754      5,754          24,264          1,213              -               -
Research supplies                                                -          -           194       194         194             582            29             80              23
Fertilizer (pasture maintenance)                                 -          -        1,919      1,919       1,919           5,757           288              -               7
Vehicles                                                         -          152         264       264         264             944            47             15               6
Generator                                                        -          192         192       192         192             768            38             15                -
Singles living quarters                                          -        '1,022      1,022     1,022       1,022           4,088           204              -              21
office supplies                                                  -          150         300       300         300           1,050            53             40               4
Library subscriptions                                            -          -            30        30          30              90             5             80                -
Building and ground maintenance                                  -          -            20        50          50             120             6              -
Irrigation maintenance                                           190        190         190       190         190             950            48              8               4
Total operating costs                        1.438      7.460       9.885     9,915       9 . 915        38.613         1.931               3              65
Total baseline cost                                  17,051      19,141    12,667       9,915      9,915          68,689          3,434             25             857
Physical contingencies
(10% of investment costs)                          1.561      1,168         278         -          -            3,007           150             53              79
Total               7                   18.612    20,309       12.945      9.915       9.915          71.696         3.584              26            936
1/ Excluding commercial farm.
2/ Includes professional fees on civil work ($b 1,326,000).
June 14, 1977                                                                                                                                                                       -



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation System
Unit -------------------------------------Years---------------------------    Total               Total      Foreign       Foreign
No. of       Cost           1              2           3            4             5              Cost          Cost       Exchange      Exchange
Units            - --------------------------b-----------------------------------------'. us$
I.   Investment Costs
Canals and drains
(earth work)                   -            -         182,000           -           -            -              -            182,000       9,100          -              -
Land grading                        -            -          60,000          -            -            -             -             60,000        3,000          50           1,500
Control structures
and measuring
devices                        -            -          26,800           -           _            _              _             26,800       1,340           41             549
Vehicles and tools                  -            -         340,000          -           -             -             -            340,000       17,000          85          14,450
Engineering and
overhead                       -            -          37,300           _                                                     31300        1,865           -
Total investment costs                                     646,10           -            -            -                          646,000       32,305          51          16,499
II. Operating Costs
Maintenance                         -            _         190,000       190,000      190,000       190,000       190,000        950,000       47,500           8           3,800
Total operating costs                                      190,000       190,000      190,000       190,000       190,000        950,000       47,500                       3,800
Total baseline cost                                        836,100       190,000      190,000       190Q00        190,000      1,596.100       79,805          25          20,299
Physical contingencies
(107, on investment costs)                             64,610           -                        -              -             64,610       3,230           51           1,648
Total costs                                                710,710        1                  190,000              190.000      1,660,710 03.,0 59-0
June 9, 1977
4-el



/                    -  53  -                          ANNEX
Table  5
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Farm - Investment Costs
Project
Unit -----------------Years-----------------  Total
No. of      Cost          1            2          3           Cost
Units   ------------------------$b-----------------------------
Livestock Purchase
Alpaca
Breeding males               100        900          -             -      90,000        90,000
Breeding famales            1,000       750          -            _      750,000        750,000
Females 1-2 years             300       700          -            -      210,000       210,000
Males 1-2 years               100       772          -             -      77,200         77,200
Llama
Breeding males                 20       700          -             -      14,000         14,000
Breeding females              250       800          -             -     200,000       200,000
Females 1-2 years              75       784          -            -       58,800        58,800
Males 1-2 years                25       800          -            -       20,000         20,000
Sub-total                                       -            -   1,420,000    1,420,000
Fencing 1/
New - km                        64    10,000        640,000          -         -          640,000
Construction
Corrals                          4      7,500        30,000          -         -           30,000
Livestock Equipment
Hand shears                   24         50          -             -        1,200         1,200
Mechanical shear               i      2,000          -             -      14,000         14,000
Ear tags                  10,000          2          -            -       20,000         20,000
Scales for fiber               4      2,000          -            -        8,000          8,000
Classifying tables             2      2,000          -            -        4,000          4,000
Livestock scale                1    10,000           -            -       10,000         10,000
Sub-total                                    -             -      57,200         57,200
Total                                     670,000         -   1,477,200    2,147,200
1/ Fencing: wire and posts ($b 8,915/km)
labor ($b 1,085/km).
October 12, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Farm - Alpaca Herd
Herd Projections
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -    -    -    -    -  Year   -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10
Herd Composition (end of year)
Breeding males                           140        100        100        100        100        110        110         110        110       110
Breeding females                       1,170      1,076      1,172      1,200      1,250      1,300      1,300      1,300      1,300    1,300
Females 1-2 yrs.                           -        184        218        241        290        328        341         372        376       376
Males 1-2 yrs.                             -        184        217        240        290        327        340         371        375       375
Female calves                            200        234        259        305        345        359        387         392        392       396
Male calves                              200        234        258        305        345        358        387         391        391       396
Total animals                          1,710      2,012      2,224      2,391      2,619      2,782      2,865      2,936      2,944    2,953
Total adult animals                    1,310      1,544      1,707      1,781      1,930      2,065      2,091      2,153       2,161    2,161
Carrying capacity 1/                     .80        .90        .90        1.0        1.0        1.1         1.1        1.1        1.1       1.1
Mortality
Adults                                   120        137        141        155        119         131        140        115        118       118
Calves                                   100        117        129        152        151        158         136        127        127       118
U,
Total                                    220        244        270        307        270        289         276        242        245       236
Sales
Cull adult males                          10         29          -          -          10         10         10         10         10        10
Cull adult females                         -          -          -          -         57          60         60         60         60        60
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.                 26          -          -         93         62         104        187        215        245       249
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.                   34          -        164        195        213        250         294        312        342       346
Total                                     70         29        164        288        342         424        551        597        657       665
Purchases (beginning of the year)
Breeding males                           100          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -         -
Breeding females                       1,000          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -         -
Females 1-2 yrs.                         300          -                -          -          -          -                -          -         -
Males 1-2 yrs.                           100          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -         -
Female calves                              -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -                    -
Male calves                                -          -          -                      -
Total                                  1,500          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -         -
Coefficients
Fertility rate %                            50         50          60         65         70         70         70          70         70        70
Mortality adults %                           8           8          7          7          5          5           5          4          4         4
Mortality calves %                          20          20         20         20         18         18          15         14         14        13
1/ Adult animals
October 11, 1977                                                                                                                                   o



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Farm - Llama Herd
Herd Projections
 - - - - - - - - - - - --  - - - - Year  - - - - -
1          2          3           4          5          6           7          8          9         10
Herd Composition (end of year)
Breeding males                             33         25         25          25         25         30          30         30          30        30
Breeding females                          292        269        270         302        315        340         340        340         340       340
Females 1-2 yrs.                            -         46          55         60         67          83         85         97          99        99
Males 1-2 yrs.                              -         46          54         60         66          82         86          97         98        98
Female calves                              50         59          65         70         87          90        101        103         103       104
Male calves                                50         58          64         70         86          90        101         102        102       103
Total animals                             425        503        533         587        646         715        743        769         772       774
Total adult animals                       325        386        404         447        473         535        541        564         567       567
Carrying capacity 1/                     0.80       0.90       0.90        1.0        1.0         1.1        1.1        1.1         1.1       1.1
Mortality
Adults                                     29         34          35         38          29         31         35          29         31        31
Calves                                     25         29          32         35         38          40         36          33         33        31
Total                                      54         63          67         73         67          71         71          62         64        62
Sales
Cull adult males                            3          5           -          -           -          3           3          3          3         3
Cull adult females                          -          -           -          -           -         15         15          16         16        16
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.                   -          -          23          -         29           8         47          52         63        65
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.                     6          -          41         48          56         54         74          79         89        90
Total                                       9          5          64         48          85         80        139         150        171       174
Purchases (beginning of year)
Breeding males                             20          -           -          -           -          -           -          -          -         -
Breeding females                          250          -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -         -
Females 1-2 yrs.                           75          -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -         -
Males 1-2 yrs.                             25          -           -          -           -          -           -          -          -          -
Female calves                               -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -          -         -
Male calves                                 -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -          -          -
Total                                     370          -           -          -           -          -           -          -          -          -
Coefficients
Fertility rate %                             50          50         60          65         70         70          70         70          70        70
Mortality adults %                             8          8          7           7          5           5          5           4          4         4
Mortality calves %                           20          20         20          20         18          18         15          14         14        13
1/ Adult animals
October 11, 1977
hctW



BOLIVIA
U.LA ULLA DEVELOPMF.NT PROJECT
Commercial Farm - Alpaca/Llama
Production Projections
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Year  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1          2          3           4          5           6          7           8          9        10
Alpaca Fiber
No. of animals sheared                  1,490      1,768       1,954      2,054      2,349       2,493      2,589       2,694      2,699    2,717
Yield per animal (kg)                    1.20       1.24        1.27       1.31        1.36       1.40        1.45       1.51       1.57       1.63
Total production (kg)                   1,778      2,192      2,482       2,691      3,195       3,490      3,754       4,068      4,237    4,429
White                                   1,341      1,644       1,861      2,018      2,396       2,617      2,815       3,051      3,178    3,322
Color                                     447        548         621        673         799        873         939      1,017      1,059      1,107
Alpaca pelts
Adult                                     120         137        141        155         119        131         140        115         118       118
Calves                                    100        117         129        152         151        158         136        127         127       118
Llama fiber
No. of animals sheared                    371        440         466        514         579        644         672        707         708       712
Yield per animal (kg) 1/                 1.00       1.03        1.06       1.09        1.12       1.17        1.20       1.26        1.31      1.36
Total production (kg)                     371        453         494        560         648        753         806        891         927       968
Llama pelts
Adult                                      29          34         35          38         29          31         35          29         31        31
Calves                                     25          29         32         35          38         40          36         33          33        31
Alpaca livestock
Cull adult males                           10          29          -          -          10          10         10          10         10        10
Cull adult females                          -           -          -           -         57         60          60         60          60        60
Breeding females, 1-2 yrs.                 26           -          -          93         62        104         187        215         245       249
Breeding males, 1-2 yrs.                   34           -        164        195         213        250         294        312         342       346
Llama livestock
Cull adult males                            3           5          -           -          -           3          3           3          3         3
Cull adult females                          -          -           -          -           -          15         15          16         16        16
Breeding females, 1-2 yrs.                  -          -          23          _          29           8         47          52         63        65
Breeding males, 1-2 yrs.                    6           _         41          41         56          54         74          79         89        90
1/ Based on preliminary data obtained from unimproved llamas.
October 11, 1977
H 1
0M
tD X



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Farm - Alpaca/Llama (2,500 ha)
Sales and Operating Costs
($b)
-   -   -     -     -     -   -     -   -     -   -     -     -     -   -     -     -   -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -  Years-   -   -     -     -   -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -   -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -   -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     - _   
1              2               3               4               5              6               7               8               9             10              11              12
Sales
I. Livestock
Alpaca: Cull adult males                   3,600          10,440               -               -          3,600           3,600           3,600           3,600          3,600           3,600           3,600          3,600
Cull adult females                     -               -              -               -         17,100          18,000          18,000          18,000         18,000          18,000          18,000         18,000
Breeding females, 1-2 yrs.    13,000                   -              -         46,500          31,000          52,000          93,500         107,500        122,500         124,500         124,500        124,500
Breeding males, 1-2 yrs.         25,000                -       123,000         146,250         159,750         187,500         220,500        234,000         256,500         259,500         259,500        159,500
Llamas: Cull adult males                   1,470           2,450               -               -               -          1,470           1,470           1,470           1,470          1,470           1,470           1,470
Cull adult females                     -               -              -               -               -          6,750           6,750           7,200          7,200           7,200           7,200          7,200
Breeding females, 1-2 yrs.             -               -         18,400               -         23,200           6,400          37,600         41,600          50,400          52,000          52,000         52,000
Breeding males, 1-2 yrs.          4,704                -         32,144         32.144          43,904          42,336          42,336         58.016          61,936          69,776          70,560         70,560
Sub-Total                              48,274          12,890        173,544         224,894         278,554        318,056         439,436         475,306         529,446         536,830        536,830         536,830
2. Fiber
Alpaca                                   146,616         179,744         203,508         220,654        261,982         286,164         307,812         333,576        347,442         363,186         363,186        363,186
Llama                                      8,533          10,419          11,362         12,880          .14,904         17,319          18,583          20,493         21,321          22,264          22,264          22,264
Sub-Total                             155,149        190,163         214,870         233,534         276,886        303,483         326,350         354,069         368,763         385,450        385,450         385,450
3. Pelts
Alpaca                                     7,700           8,975           9,795          11,430         11,005          11,580          10,240           9,405           9,435          8,850           8,850           8,850
Llama                                      1,290           1,500           1,630           1,780          1,810           1,910           1,790           1,610           1,351          1,271           1,271           1,271
Sub-Total                               8,990          10,475         11,425          13,210          12,815          13,490          12,030         11,015          10,786          10,121          10,121         10,121
Total Sales                           212,413        213,528         399,839         471,638         568,255        635,029         777,816         840,480         908,995         932,401        932,401         932,401
Operating Costs
Hired labor                               252,000         252,000         252,000        252,000         252,000         252,000         252,000         252,000         252,000        252,000         252,000         252,000
Animal health                              74,400          87,730          96,068         102,620         111,636        120,146         122,848         126,464         126,904         126,940        126,940         126,940
Land tam                                    3,115           3,115           3,115           3,115          3,115           3,115           3,115           3,115           3,155          3,155           3,155           3,115
Total Operating Costs                     343,315         342,845         351,183         357,735        366,751         375,261         377,963         381,579         382.055        382,055         382,055         382,055
Investme-t Costs                          2,147,200                -               -              -               -               -               -               -               -              -               -
Investment plus operating crsts           2,490,515         342,845         351,183         357,735        366,751         375,261         377,963         381,579         382,019        382,055         388,055         382,055
Total benefits                              212,413         213,528         399,839         471,638         568,255        635,029         777,816         840,480         908,995         932,401        932,401       2,699,299 1/
Net benefits                             -2,278,102        -129,317          48,656         113,903         201,504        259,768         399,853         458,901         526,976         550,346        544,346       2,317,214
Financial Rate of Return:  10%
1/ Including herd value of Sb 1,766,868
Note: Unit prices: alpaca white fiber: Sb 90 per kg; alpaca colored fiber: Sb 58 per kg; llama fiber: $b 23 per kg;
pelts: alpaca/llama adult Sb 10; alpaca young Sb 65; llama young: Sb 40; livestock: cull adult males (alpaca):
Sb 360; cull adult females (alpaca): Sb 300;  breeding females alpaca: $b 500; breeding males (alpaca): $b 750;
cull adult males (llama): $b 490; cull adult females (llama): Sb 450; breeding females (llama): Sb 800; and
breeding males (llama) Sb 784.
Sensitivity:                                       Rate of Return
Investment cost increased by:
10% =                    97,
20%=                     8%
Operating costs increased by:
10%=                     8%
20% =                    7%
Benefits decreased by:
10%                      7%
20%                      4%
October 12, 1977



BOLIVIA
IUINA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Co.mercial Farm - Alpaca/Llama (2,500 ha)
Cash Flaw Pr-leatians
($b)
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  Project  Year  -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -  -    -   -   -   -   -  -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -_                    
1            2             3             4             5             6             7             8            9            10            11            12            13            14           15
Cash Inflow
Sales                                     -                     212,413      231,528       399,839       471,638       568,255       635,029       777,816       840,480      908,995       932,401       932,401       932,401       932,401
Loan 1/                             670.000             -    1,820,515              -             -             -             -            -             -             -             -             -             -            -             -
Total Ca-h Imflow                   670,000             _    2,032.928        213,528       399,839      471,638       568.255       635.029       777,816       840,480       908,995       932,401      932,401       932,401       932,401
Cosh Ootflow
IaVestment Cost.                    670,000             -    1,477,200                     -             -            -             -             -                    -             -             -             -            -             -
Operating Costa                           -                     343,315       342,845      351,183       357,735       366.751       375,261       377,963       381.579       382,019       382,055      382,055       382,055       382,055    ,,
Total Cash Outflow                  67,0,00             _    1.820.515        342.845      351.183    3957,735         384.751       3753261       377,963       381,579       382.019       382,055      392.055       382.055       3820055
Cash balance before
debt service                              _             _       212,413      -129,317       48,656       113,903       201,504       259,768       399,853       458,901       526,976       550,346      550,346       550,346       550,346
Debt S-rvic- 2/
Amortization                                                          -             -        20,000       50,000       100,000       150,000       300,000       350,000       ,50,000       400,000      400,000       370,515
Cash balance after
debt servic-                              -                     2 212,413   -129.317         28,656       63,903       101.504       109.768        99,853       108,901       176.976       150,346      150,346       179.831       550,346
1/ For Inve.tment co-ts and first year of operating coats.
7/ nt-erest-free loam - tem years' maotity including two yern' grace from the
start of 1perations.
Octoher 12, 1977



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants' Terms of Reference
Animal Production
1.        The specialist in animal production should have a background in
animal or veterinary science, with experience in alpaca and llama production
and management, and, at least, five years' experience in laboratory and field
research in animal reproduction, diseases and parasites, and feeds and feeding.
His experience should be in Latin America, particularly in the Altiplano
regions of the Andes, and at least part of it with small indigenous farmers.
He should be able to read, write and speak Spanish. The principal duties of
the specialist would be to assist the chief of the Experiment Station in:
(a) designing, executing and evaluating laboratory and field
experiments to be carried out by research personnel;
(b) designing and evaluating improved herd management practices
to be conducted by research personnel and implemented by
extension staff;
(c) adjusting herd management practices to suit different alpaca
and llama production situations in different localities and
environments;
(d) determining priorities for long- and short-term research
programs;
(e) establishing and implementing training programs for the livestock
research technicians, extension agents and project beneficiaries;
(f) evaluating the effectiveness of training programs;
(g) designing, executing and evaluating field days and demonstrations
to be conducted by extension personnel; and
(h) preparing standards for selection of animals for quality and
quantity of production of fiber and meat.
Pastures and Forages
2.        The expert should have training in agriculture, with a specialization
in pastures and forages. He should have at least five years' experience in
range and pasture management, part of which should be in Latin America,
particularly in the highland areas of the Andean countries. He should be able



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
to read, write, and speak Spanish. His principal duties would be to assist
the chief of the Experiment Station and the staff in charge of pasture
research and extension in:
(a) making an inventory of the native plants found in the range
land of the (Altiplano) project area;
(b) determining priorities for long- and short-term research pro-
grams in range and pasture management;
(c) developing feeds and feeding coefficients and standards for
alpaca and llama;
(d) designing and implementing training programs for technicians,
extension agents and project beneficiaries;
(e) designing research programs aimed at the introduction of grass
and legume varieties proven to be successful in other areas of
the Altiplano; and
(f) developing a grass and legume seed production project aimed at
providing the project beneficiaries with seed of native and
introduced plant species.
June 21, 1977



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development (Alpaca/Llama)
A. Project Area
1.        The project area is located in the Department of La Paz, northeast
of the Lake Titicaca in the upper part of the Suches River drainage basin at
an average altitude of between 4,000 and 5,000 meters. The total project
area is approximately 300,000 ha, with its lowest elevation of 4,000 meters
at its southern border. The ecological area extends north and northeast of
Lake Titicaca along the Peruvian border and is referred to as the "Cojata-
Plains." It constitutes the main alpaca breeding grounds.
2.        About 10% of the project area consists of rocky slopes and water
surfaces and the rest is usable land; there are no trees or shrubs.  The most
northern part is made up of rolling stony foothills gradually giving way to
gentle sloping grassy plains; the main habitat of alpacas as well as the
vicunas is on these plains at altitudes of 4,000 meters and higher.
Soils
3.        A preliminary survey conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture in 1975
provided the following description of the soils found in the area:
(a) shallow gravely soils with a surface layer varying from
4 to 15 centimeters in depth; there were only three ex-
ceptions where there was more than 15 cm of top soil --
areas between the river Colollo and Nuber and another
area to the south of the Canuma river;
(b) low moraine soils highly variable in slope, soil type, and
amount of available water;
(c) large moraine soils found in large areas where there are no
closed basins; the top surface is deep and subject to erosion;
(d) mineral soils are found in the valley bottom zones which are
the most productive areas. These zones have deep, fine tex-
tured soils, with only limited areas where stream action has
deposited gravel formations. Water relations range from dry
areas of extremely heavy clay where water penetration is too
poor to permit adequate water supply to wet areas of inade-
quate drainage. The major limitation of these zones is the
extremes of temperature resulting from their location at the
bottom of the valley; and



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
(e) organic valley bottom soils. These soils are pure organic
matter or bog soils. They are mixed with mineral soils
usually wet and poorly drained and probably have more
potential for winter use because of water availability.
Land Tenure and Social Features
4.        Up to 1900, land was owned either by individuals or by communities.
However, while the former were given legal titles, the latter had only a
tacit admission by the authorities that the land belonged to them because of
their status as "comunidad de origen" or "originarios." In addition, there
are the "agregados" who are far-removed relatives or even friends who at one
time or another were asked to help work the land and in compensation were
allowed to have a part of it to grow their own crops.
5.        In 1900, the Government decided that the lack of titles on the part
of originarios and agregados was causing complicated legal problems related
to property rights. A law was therefore proclaimed by which all the land in
possession of the communities reverted to the state and was to be returned
to the respective communities after issuing legal titles; however, this
exercise has not been completed yet.
6.        In August 1953, the Agrarian Reform Law was enacted.  It affected
all farm land so far owned legally by private individuals. The purpose was
to redistribute the land on a more equal basis. The beneficiaries of the
distribution were the campesinos who had been living and working as laborers
in the affected farm. The former owner was also assigned a portion of land
which usually corresponded to the land where the farmhouse was located. The
land thus distributed was titled and appraised for tax purpose.
7.        A very important feature of the law is the "proindiviso" basis on
which the land was distributed; this means that the land cannot be sold or
transferred to individuals that are not members of the community. By the
same token, individual property owners cannot sell their land without prior
authorization of the Agrarian Reform Institute.
Taxation
8.        Taxes are paid by the families of the communities on a pro-rated
calculation of the assessed value of the land made by the Military Geographical
Institute. The collecting agency is the Prefectura Departamental and the tax
is called Contribucion Territorial. Communities which still do not have land
title pay taxes on a per-family basis as follows:
(a) Originarios: $b 10.45 (US$0.52) per family per year; and
(b) Agregados: $b 5.83 (US$0.29) per family per year.
The above amounts include 10% for school construction and 25% as real estate
tax. Additionally, each community must pay $b 15 (US$0.75) for the tax form.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
9.        In many cases under either system of tenure, there are individual
crop lands in the very small areas where agriculture is possible, lands
that are semi-communal and lands which belong fully to the community and
are used for pasturing animals.
Climate
10.       The climate is generally cool, with marked differences between day
and night temperatures. The average annual temperature is approximately
80 centigrade, varying from an average winter night temperature of 60 below the
freezing point to 28  above zero centigrade during daytime in the summer.
Night frosts can be expected through the year. Average rainfall is estimated
between 400 and 800 mm annually, most of it occurring from November through
March.
Pastures
11.       The most efficient use of the Altiplano, in both a technological and
a social framework, is to utilize the range land for livestock development.
The project area and other parts of the Altiplano have potential grazing areas,
due to high light intensity and relatively favorable climatic conditions for
the native grasses and a few introduced species. The cool temperatures
increase the economy of water use by the plants, which develop wider leaves
and grow rapidly, providing an excellent forage base.
12.       There is evidence that the population's economic base has been
narrowed through progressive overstocking, with the more nutritious and pala-
table grasses having largely disappeared through a process of depletion that
has exceeded the natural regenerative capacity of the land. Deterioration is
also evidenced by the high winter death losses of domestic animals. Carrying
capacity has been reduced to less than one alpaca per ha, only a fraction of
its potential, although a delicate balance appears to have been achieved,
supporting a constant number of animals on what is left of the ranges. Under
improved range management practices, the carrying capacity could be increased
to 1:1 adult animals per ha and possibly higher.
13.       The potential improvement of forage production on native rangelands
in the Ulla Ulla valley and the hilly areas in the southeast of the project
area is of the magnitude of three times up to more than six times current
production, based partly on actual measurements in the Ulla Ulla valley and
partly on data collected in comparable range ecotypes and altitudes, princi-
pally in the province of Pacajes. The existence of some of the same species
in both areas indicates similar ecological conditions:
Grasses                                Shrubs
Festuca dolichophylla                 Lachemilla pinnata
Pos. sp.                              Lachemilla erodifolia
Stipa ichu                            Baccharis sp.
Stipa mucronata                       Ephedra sp.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
B. Livestock in the Project Area
14.       Alpacas and llamas have been the mainstay of agricultural activity
in the Ulla Ulla area since the more usual types of farm animals -- chickens,
sheep, and dairy and beef cattle -- cannot be kept in this harsh environment.
There are an estimated 150,000 alpacas, approximately 25,000 llamas, 12,000
sheep and in addition, there are a large number of pigs which contribute to
the deterioration of the pastures by digging the soil and eating the roots.
A few horses are kept for riding, but their life span is rather short since
they are affected by the altitude and they usually die of heart attacks.
15.       There is almost no selection practiced in the area; the ratio of
males to females is in the order of 50 to 100. Animals are generally kept
until they die from natural causes, but low fertility (35%) and high mortality
(20%) keep animal numbers down. On the average, not more than 3% of the total
herd is available annually for meat production. With improved management
practices, this could be increased to 20%. Results at La Raya Experiment in
Peru indicate that substantial progress can be made in improving the herd
quality by breeding the 10 to 20% best males to the 10 to 20% best females.
16.       Alpacas are sheared every two years in a haphazard manner.  Tools
used for shearing are primitive and consist of knives, tin can lids, and even
broken glass. Also, clusters of fibers are left on the animals as ownership
markings thus reducing animal fiber yield. No effort is made to separate the
fiber according to fineness, which varies from one part of the body to another,
and all of it is dropped on the ground where it gets dirty and mixed up.
Since the original fleece form is not then recognizable, it cannot be sorted
and classified, which limits the end use to products that use only the coarsest
type.
17.       Present yield per alpaca per year is, on the average, 0.8 kilos,
while in Peru under improved herd management practices developed over the last
20 years, the average annual fiber yield is 1.34 kg. Practices such as yearly
shearing, the use of shearing scissors and the use of plastic tags for identi-
fication would be easily introduced with a fast rate of assimilation and at
low cost for the farmer. Such improved techniques would make an immediate im-
pact on production and productivity. Skin diseases in the herds also have a
direct impact on fiber yield (para 19). Spraying the animals four times a
year has just about eliminated this disease in Peru. The first two spraying
are done right after shearing in October and the other two in April of the
following year. The interval between each of the two sprayings is 14 days.
The spray-type bath is recommended for alpacas over the more traditional dip-
vat type used with other types of livestock; the main reason is to avoid a
possible ear infection caused when the heads of the animals are dipped in the
chemical solution. It is also a faster system and can handle a larger number
of animals in a shorter time and with less stress for the animals.
18.       Presently in Ulla Ulla, the herds are made up of about 25% white and
75% various other colored animals. The price for white alpaca fiber, however,
is almost twice that for other colors. Therefore, farmers would be encouraged



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
to raise more white alpacas. Crossings between white and color animals would
not be encouraged because the hereditary mechanism involved in the transmission
of color characteristic has not been discovered yet. The only known fact is
that white color would seem to be dominant.
Diseases
19.       Animal health problems constitute a serious constraint in the develop-
ment of the alpaca herds. Veterinary services are not presently available in
the project area and no health management practices are being used. Animals
subjected to skin diseases are cured by applying burned crankcase oil on the
infected parts where no hair will ever grow back. This method, however, does
not eradicate the disease because the contamination centers are in the animals
sleeping areas.
20.       Enterotoxemia or bacillar diarrhea and internal parasites are the
main cause of mortality of young animals, while necrobacilosis, estomatitis,
metritis, otitis and fasciola hepatica, among others, are prevalent in the
adult animal population. The technology required for effective disease control
and prevention is available and the cost is reasonable. Additionally, the
farmers are aware of the nature of the problem, the probable cost, and are
willing to learn and apply health practices.
Grazing Practices
21.       Since the pasture land is for the larger part held by communities,
each village has its own grazing rights and each family organization has its
own assigned grazing areas within the communal grazing ground. However, the
grazing rights are not enforced, and larger herds cannot be confined to a
particular assigned area because there is no fencing of any kind. This has
led to an unrestrictive type of grazing system that has almost destroyed the
natural plant cover and animals appear to be stunted and underfed.
22.       To attain any increases in production it would be necessary to in-
troduce basic and straightforward range management practices such as range
pittin- i/ to improve the rain water utilization in the root zone of the
forage plant and to increase the infiltration and storage of natural precipita-
tion, this would prolong the available green forage after the rainy season.
The cost per hectare for range pitting under Bolivian conditions is estimated
at 15 to 20 pesos per year (US$0.75 to US$1.00). Pasture rotation would also
be strongly advocated in order to give plants time to recuperate their growth
for forage production and for seed production. For pasture rotation, fencing
would be necessary, and, since the grazing land is communally owned, agree-
ments would be reached with the various families so that the cost would be
shared. This should not be difficult to do since commiunities already have a
very well defined organizational system whiclh is communally oriented. They are
presently aware of the situation but require the necessary guidance and techni-
cal assistance.
1/   The use of a special type of discs or chain-type tool to make narrow
shallow grooves in the top soil.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Livestock Ownership
23.       The inhabitants of the altiplano have a historical attachment to
animal ownership. Family-owned herds of alpacas in the area of the proposed
project are reported to range from 50 to 400 animals, with a distribution that
is skewed to the lower numbers. The average number of animals per family is
estimated at 100. Alpacas are most frequently combined into herds of 150 to
400 head for grazing purposes.
24.       Llamas are found in few discrete herds and in some mixed herds with
alpacas. About 3% of the animals are crossbred between alpacas and llamas.
It is estimated that 10% of the families own both llamas and alpacas. The
vicuna are distributed widely over the ranges in small natural mating bands.
Sheep are owned by an estimated 5% of the families located in the lower valleys
of the area, and, hence, do not compete with alpacas.
C. Livestock Development under the Project
General Description
25.       The project would consolidate an agricultural experiment station, a
commercial farm for demonstration purposes and the provision of technical assis-
tance (Annex 1); supervised credit for on-farm investments and incremental work-
ing capital would be provided through the National Institute for Development of
Wool for a period of five years.
26.,      Sub-loans for livestock and range development would be subject to
approval of the investment plans prepared with the technical assistance of the
extension staff of the Project Unit and would be for a period of up to 10 years,
with a grace period of up to four years. It is estimated that up to 1,575
families would be eligible for subloans.
27.       When considering applications for sub-loans, special attention would
be given to forage availability, the need to introduce new animal husbandry and
range management methods to substitute or improve the traditional practices,
the availability of technical assistance and assurance of marketing channels
for the proposed fiber and pelt production.
28.       Sub-loans would be made to improve the traditional shearing
techniques and the fiber handling and classifying practices, and also for
construction of facilities for implementing a sound animal health program
including improved   animal husbandry and range management practices.
Farm Models
29.       In view of the communal organization of the target population, the
proposed development models are simple and compatible with the traditional
pattern of farm activities and forms of cooperation. The four models (Tables 1
through 21), are based on existing farming systems and farming practices, which



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
would be upgraded according to available technology and the rate at which
farmers can adapt it. The models would serve as a guide to extension
personnel in helping farmers prepare investment plans for sub-loan applica-
tions.
30.       The first model is representative of a typical small herd of 100
alpacas owned by one or two families. The herd is small enough to be herded
easily by one person. No fences would be required, pasture rotation would be
accomplished by marking the pasturing areas with movable landmarks. The only
investment item would be hand shears. Operating costs, mainly for animal
health, would need to be financed for only the first two years. The culling
of males is kept even for the first four years in order to maintain the integ-
rity of the herd and the production of fiber. Annual total net income per
farmer would reach $b 16,500 (US$825) by year 12. Details of investment costs
on herd and production projections, earnings and cost estimates, and projected
cash flow are presented in Tables 1 through 5.
31.       The 400-alpaca model is representative of a herd owned by five
families. The greater portion of the investments would be made in year 1 for
holding corral, shearing platform, hand shears, scale, tools, shearing table,
identifying tags, and fences; male replacements would be purchased in years 9
and 10. Investment would also include operating costs for the first year.
Annual total net income per farmer would reach $b 19,940 (US$997) by year 12.
Details of investment costs, herd and production projections, earnings and
cost estimates, and projected cash flow are presented in Tables 6 through 10.
32.       The 1,000-alpaca model is representative of a herd-owned by 12
families. The greater portion of the investments would be made during the
first two years and would include fencing, holding corral, cement slab for
shearing, medical first-aid and equipment, fiber classifying tables, tools
and identifying tags. Investment would also include operating costs for year 1.
The sales of livestock would increase each year as a result of the increase in
the fertility rate and decrease in the mortality rates. The production value
triples by year 5 while the net benefit, which includes the family labor,
doubles by year 5. All the labor required during the year would be provided
by the member families. Annual total cost income per farmer would reach
$b 20,770 (US$1,039) by year 12. Details of investment costs, herd and pro-
duction projections, earnings and cost estimates, and projected cash flow are
presented in Tables 11 through 15.
33.       The 5,000-alpaca model is representative of an operation managed by
55 families. The size would warrant investing in a mechanical shearing equip-
ment and also in spray-bath facilities. Additional major investments would
include holding and shearing corrals, fencing and a warehouse for fiber storage,
with a presser to make bales of fiber. Minor investment items would include
weighing scales, tables for classifying fiber, medical kit, hoof trimmers and
neck identifying tags. Male replacements would be purchased in years 10 and
11. Annual total net income per farmer would reach $b 22,280 (US$1,114) by
year 12. Details of investment costs, herd and production projections, earn-
ings and cost estimates, and projected cash flow are presented in Tables 16
through 20.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
34.       In all models, it is assumed that shearing would be done annually and
that animal husbandry practices such as breeding, calving, and parasite control
would be carried out according to the schedule shown in Chart 1.
35.       Technical assistance and veterinary services (Annex 1), except medi-
cines, would be considered part of the training and transfer of technology and
thus free.
36.       Only the 5,000-herd model, because of its size, would have its own
spray-bath facilities. For the other models, three spray-bath units would be
built and strategically located for use by the various family groups. The in-
vestment cost would be assumed by the Agricultural and Social Infrastructure
Division; and operating costs would be financed by user-charges of $b 2 (US$0.10)
per year per animal. The work would be supervised by the extension agents from
the Project Unit. It is estimated that the investment would pay for itself in
four years, at which time the facilities would be transferred to the communities.
37.       The income of each family group would come from the sale of fiber and
livestock, and pelts from the animals that die. The main operating costs would
be mainly in relation to animal health, fences for rotational grazing, and land
taxes. Labor in all instances is considered family labor and has been costed
as such in the cash flows.
38.       The proposed project would yield substantial benefits to the farmers
participating in the project. Rates of return and sensitivity analysis are shown
in Table 21. A summary of producer benefits as illustrated in the farm models
follows:
Model 1      Model 2         Model 3           Model 4
(100 animals) (400 animals) (1,000 animals) (5,000 animals)
No. of families                 1-2             5              12                 55
Investment cost per
family (US$)                   10          669             625                 655
Net income per family /1
(US$)
Present                     73           93              98                 106
Full development /2       825           997           1,038              1,114
Financial rate of
return (%)             above 100            40              35                  34
/1   Includes remuneration of family labor.
/2   Full development would be reached by year 12.



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
The financial rates of return of the livestock models are high. The high
rates may be attributed to the improvement in shearing (annually instead of
every second year), improved marketing and extension services and revenues
from animal sales.
39.       In addition to the impact that the proposed project would have in
the project area, benefits would also accrue in other production zones of
the Altiplano through the spin-off effects and technical assistance program.
Table 22 summarizes the overall production impact.
40.       The phasing of the lending program for livestock development is
shown in Table 23.
December 8, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 1 - 100-Alpaca Herd (1 or 2 families)
Investment Costs
($b)
--------------------------------------                                         Years --------------------
Unit         Unit              1                      2                      3                     4                    5                   6-12
per Farm       Cost       Unit        Cost       Unit       Cost       Unit       Cost       Unit       Cost       Unit        Cost       Unit       Cost   0
Equipment
Hand shears               4             50         2         100         -          -          -           -           -          -         2         100         -          -
Total                                                    100                                                                                      100
September 19, 1977                                                                                                                                                         >|
tI-.K



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eprm Mndpl No. 1 - 100 Alpaca Herd (I or 2 families)
Herd Projection
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1         2         3         4         5       .6           7         8         9        10        11        12
Herd Composition
(at end of Year)
Breeding males                   40         41         30        22        17        13        12        10         8         6         6          6         6
Breeding females                 40         42        42         46        51        56        64        65        65        65        65        65         65
Females 1-2                       5          4          6         9         9        12        14        15        18        19        19         19        19
Males 1-2                         5           5         7         7        10        11        15        14        18        19         19        19        19
Female calves                     6           7         9        10        12        15        16        19        20        20        20         20        20
Male calves                       6           7         8        10        12        15        16        19        20        20        20         20        20
Total animals                      102        106       102       104       111       122       137       142        149       149       149       149       149
Total adult animals                 90         92        85        84        87        92       105       104       109        109       109       109       109
Carrying capacity                  .80        .80       .80       .90       .90       1.0       1.0       1.1       1.1        1.1       1.1       1.1       1.1
Mortality
Adults                                        8         7         7         7         6         6         7         6          6         6         6         6
Calves                                       4         4          5         6         6         7         7         6         6          6         6         6
Total                              _         12        11        12        13        12        13        14         12        12        12        12        12
Sales
Cull adult males                  -           -        12        12        10        10         6         5          5         3         3         3         3
Cull adult females                -           -         -         -         -          -        -        10        10         10        10        10        10
Breeding females 1-2              -           -         -         -         -          -        -         -         1          5         5         6         5
Breeding males 1-2                -           -         -         -         -          -        5        10         11        15        16        15        16
Total                             -           -        12        12        10        10        11        25         27        33        34        34        34
Purchases                                       -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Coefficients
Fertility %                      35         45         50        60        65        70        70        70        70        70         70        70        70
Mortality adults %               10           8         7         7         7         5         5          5        4          4         4         4         4
Mortality calves %               22         20         20        20        20        18        18        15        14         14         13        13       13      X
5x
October 5, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 1 - 100 Alpaca Herd (1 or 2 families)
Production Projection
($b)
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12
Fiber
No. of animals sheared           45         94        91         92        98       110       124       128       137       137       137        137       137
Yield per animal (kg)          0.80       0.80      0.80      0.824    0.849    0.878    0.909    0.941    0.974    1.02             1.06      1.10      1.14
Total production (kg)            36         75         73        76        83        96       113       120       133       140       145        151       156
White (kg) 1/                     9          19        18        19        21        24        40        42        47        63         65        68        70
Color (kg)                       27         56        55        57         62        72        73        78        86        77         80        83        86
Pelts
Adults                           10           8         7         7         7         6         6         7         6          6         6         6         6
Calves                            3          4         4          5         6         6         7         7         6         6          6         6         6
Livestock
Cull adult males                  -           -       12         12        10        10         6         5         5          3         3         3         3
Cull adult females                -           -         -         -         -         -         -        10        10         10        10        10        10
Breeding females 1-2  yrs.                             -          -                             -         -          1         5         5         6         5
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.           -           -         _         _         _         _         5        10        11         15        16        15        16
1/  Proportion of white to colored is 25% from years 0 to 5
35% from years 6 to 8
45% from years 9 to 12                                                                                               v 
October 5, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 1 - 100 Alpaca Herd (1 or 2 families)
Production Value and Operating Costs
($b)
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - -
Project       1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12
Production Value
Livestock
Cull adult males                   -          -    4,320    4,320    3,600    3,600    2,160    1,800    1,800    1,080    1,080    1,080    1,080
Cull adult females                 -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
Breeding females, 1-2 yrs.         -          -                             - _  _              _    3,000        500    2,500    2,500    3,000    2,500
Breeding males, 1-2 yrs.           -          -         -         -         -         -    3,750    7.500    8,250   11,250   12,000   11,250   12 000
Sub-Total                        -          -    4,320    4,320    3,600    3,600    5,910   12,300   13,550   17,830   18,580   18,330   18,580
Fiber
Sub-Total                   2,376      4,958    4,810    5,016    5,486    6,336    7,834    8,304    9,218   10,136   10,490   10,934   11,288
Pelts
Sub-Total                      295        340       330       395      460        450       515       525       450       450       450       450       450
Total Production Value        2,081       5,298    9,460    9,731    9,546   10,386   14,259   21,129   23,218   28,416   29,520   29,714   30,318
Operating Costs
Permanent family labor        10,500    10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500   10,500
Occasional family labor            -        210       210       210       210       210       210       210       210       210       210       210       210
Animal health                      -      3,932    3,706    3,720    3,912    4,220    4,776    4,884    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080    5,080
Land taxes                       139        139       139       139       139       139       139       139       139       139       139       139       139
Total Operating Costs         10,639    14,781   14,555   14,569   14,761   15,069   15,625   15,733   15,929   15,929   15,929   15,929   15,929
Investment                           -        100         -         -         -       100          -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Investment plus Operating
Cost        10,639     14,871   14,555   14,569   14,761   15,169   15,625   15,733   15,929   15,929   15,929   15,929   15,929
Total benefits 2/                2,081      5,298    9,460    9,731    9,546   10,386   14,259   21,129   23,218   28,416   29,520   29,714   47,868
Net benefit                     -8,558    -9,573   -5,095   -4,838   -5,215   -4,783   -1,366    5,396    7,289   12,487   13,591   13,785   31,939
Incremental net benefit              -    -1,015    3,463    3,720    3,343    3,775    7,192   13,954   15,847   21,045   22,149   22,343   40,497
Financial rate of return   above 100%
1/ 6 man-days per year. Family labor valued at $35 per day.
2/ Including Incremental herd value of $B 17,550.
Note:  Unit prices: white fiber = $b 90 per kg; colored fiber = $b 58 per kg;
pelts: young = $b 65; adult = $b 10; livestock: cull adult males = $b 360;
cull adult females = $b 300; breeding females = $b 500; breeding males = $b 750.
October 5, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 1 - 100-Alpaca Herd (1 or 2 families)
Cash Flow Projection
($b)
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project      1         2        3         4         5        6         7        8         9       10        11       12
Cash Inflow
Sales
Livestock                         -         -    4,320    4,320    3,600    3,600    5,910   12,300   13,550   17,830   18,580   18,330   18,580
Fiber 1/                     2,028      4,610    4,462    4,668    5,138    5,988    7,486    7,956    8,870    9,788   10,142   10,586   10,940
Pelts                          295        340       330      395       460      450       515      525       450      450       450       450      450
Sub-total                  2,323      4,950    9,112    9,383    9,198   10,038   13,911   20,781   22,870   28,068   29,172   29,366   29,970
Long-term loan 2/                 -     4,032         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        _         _
Total Cash Inflow            2,323      8,982    9,112    9,383    9,198   10,038   13,911   20,781   22,870   28,068   29,172   29,366   29,970
Cash Outflow 3/
Cash Investment Cost              -       100         -        -         -      100         -         -        -         -         -        -
Cash Operating Costs            139     4,071    3,845    3,859    4,051    4,359    4,915    5,023    5,219    5,219      5219    5,219    5,219
Total Cash Outflow              139     4,171    3,845    3,859    4,051    4,459    4,915    5,023    5,219    5,219    5,219    5,219    5,219
Cash Balance before
debt service                 2,184      4,811    5,267    5,524    5,147    5,579    8,996   15,758   17,651   22,849   23,953   24,147   24,751
Debt Service
Amortization                      -          -        -         -      399       447      501       561      628       706       790        -         -
Interest, 12% p.a.                -       242       484      484       484      436       382       322      255       179       94         -
Total Debt Service          _             242       484      484       883       883      883       883      883       884       884        -
Cash Balance after
debt service                 2, 184    4,569    4,783    5,040    4,264    4,696        8,113   14,875   16,768   21,965   23,069   24,147   24,751
1/ Production value, excluding domestic use (3 kg of colored fiber per family per year, or
$b 348 for two families).
2/ For hand shears and first year veterinary supplies.                                                                                                     >
3/ Excluding the value of family labor.
4/ Ten years' maturity, including three years' grace.
October 5, 1977



- 75 -
vI                                           0   0                           0   , | o o I l l o  TabLe 6
I                                             I    I               0 
* -         I I                                 0| i          
U1    ,  Ij   I  _ I I'o 'oI   .0               
it-=l~          0,,,            | ,       
0                                                                l        l o      .  I
O 0       00      0       0                              '        0  
av'K 0Ste00   Ia
C OH                    I-                      I
*   10
O~~ 0                                                                                   .
0 ~      ~         ~ O.                                i Er  I'  V'0                 
-~ ~      ~ 0                                   . V 4
0~~~ -0 I                                            ;<          -X           -        u  
5 ~      ~       oS               a><S                U3           1        Uz- 



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 2 - 400 Alpaca Herd (5 families)
Herd Projection
With Project
Without     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years  - - - - - -
Project       1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12
Herd Composition
Breeding males                  160        164       120        88         68        52        48        40        32        24        24        24        24
Breeding females                160        168       168       184        204       224       256       260       260       260       260       260       260
Females 1-2 yrs.                 20         16        24        36         36        48        56        60        72        76.       76        76        76
Males 1-2 yrs.                   20         20         28        28        40        44        60        56        72        76        76        76         76
Female calves                    24         28        36        40        48         60        64        76        80        80        80        80        80
Male calves                      24         28        32        40         48        60        64        76        80        80        80        80        80
Total animals                   408        424       408       416       444        488       548       568       596       596       596       596       596
Total adult animals             360        368       340       336       348        368       420       420       416       436       436       436       436
Carrying capacity               .80        .80       .80       .90        .90       1.0       1.0       1.1       1.1       1.1       1.1       1.1        1.1
Mortality
Adults                                      32        28         28        28        24        24        28        24         24        24        24        24      0
Calves                                      16        16        20         24        24        28        28        24        24        24         24        24
Total                                       48        44        48         52        48        52        56        48        48        48         48        48
Sales
Cull adult males                  -          -        48        48         40        40        24        20        20         22        22        12        12
Cull adult females                -           -         -         -         -         -         -        40        40        40        40         40        40
Breeding females 1-2                                              -         -         -         -         -         4         20        20        24        20
Breeding males 1-2                -           -         -         -         -         -        20        40        44        60         64        60        64
Total                             -           -       48        48         40        40        44       100       108        142       146       136       136
Purchases breeding males             -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -        10        10         -         -
Coefficients
Fertility rate %                   35         45         50        60        60        65        70        70         70        70        70        70        70
Mortality adults %                  10          8         7         7         7         5          5         5         4         4         4         4         4
Mortality calves %                  22         20        20        20        20        18        18         15        14        14        13        13        13
October 5, 1977
13 



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 2 - 400 Alpaca Herd (5 families)
Production Projection
($b)
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - -
Project       1         2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9        10        11        12
Fiber
No. of animals sheared           180        376      364       368       392       440       496       512       548       548       548       548       548
Yield per animal (kg)          0.80       0.80      0.80      0.824    0.849    0.878    0.909    0.941    0.974    1.02            1.06      1.10      1.14
Total Production (kg)            144       301       291       303       333       386       451       482       534       559       581       603       625
White (kg) 1/                     36         75        73        76       83        96       158       169       187       252       261       271       281
Color (kg)                       108       226       218       227       250       290       293       313       347       307       320       332       344
Pelts
Adults                            41         32        28        28       28        24        24        28        24        24        24        24        24
Calves                            12         16       16        20        24        24        28        28        24        24        24        24        24   -
Livestock
Cull adult males                   -          -       48        48        40        40        24        20        20        22        22        12        12
Cull adult females                 -          -         -         -         -         -        -        40        40        40        40        40        40
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.          -          -                             -         -                            4        20        20        24        20
Breeding males 1-2  yrs.           -          -         -         _                           20        40        44        60        64        60        64
1/ Proportion of white to colored is: 25% from year'  0 to 5
35% from years 6 to 8
45% from years 9 to 12
October 5, 1977
co. r



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 2 - 400 Alpaca Herd (5 families)
Production Value and Operating Costs
($1,)
With Project
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8         9        10       11        12
PRODUCTION VALUE
1.  Livestock 1/
Cull adult males                 -          -   17,280   17,280   14,400   14,400    8,640    7,200    7,200    7,920    7,920    4,320    4,320
Cull adult females               -          -         -        -         -         -         -   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.        -          -         -        -         -         -         -         -    2,000   10,000   10,000   12,000   10,000
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.          -          -         -        -         -         -   15,000   30,000   33,000   45,000   48,000   45,000   48,000
Sub-Total                     -          -   17,280   17,280   14,400   14,400   23,640   49,200   54,200   74,920   77,920   73,320   74,320
2.  Fiber 2/
Sub-Total                 9,504    19,858   19,214   20,006   21,970   25,460   31,214   33,364   36,956   40,486   42,050   43,646   45,242
3.  Pelts 3/
Sub-Total                 1,190      1,360    1,320    1,580    1,840    1,800    2,060    2,100    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800
Total Production Value   10,694    21,218   37,814   38,866   38,210   41,660   56,914   84,664   92,956  117,206  121,770  118,766  121,362
OPERATING COSTS
Permanent family labor
(3 herders)                25,550    25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   25,550   m
Occasional family labor 4/         -        875      875       875       875       875       875       875       875       875       875       875      875
Animal health                      -    15,728   14,824   14,880   15,648   16,880   19,104   19,376   20,320   20,320   20,320   20,320   20,320
Land tax                         511        511       511      511       511       511       511       511       511       511       511       511      511
Total Operating Costs    26,061    42,664   41,760   41,816   42,584   43,816   46,040   46,312   47,256   47,256   47,256   47,256   47,256
Investment Costs                     -    13,090   50,000    1,500            -    2,280          -         -        -    9,000    9,000           -         -
Investment plus
Operating Costs              26,061    55,754   91,760   43,316   42,584   46,096   46,040   46,312   47,256   56,256   56,256   47,256   47,256
Total Benefits                  10,694    21,218   37,814   38,866   38,210   41,660   56,914   84,664   92,956  117,206  121,770  118,766  191,562
Met Benefits                   -15,367   -34,536  -53,946   -4,450   -4,374   -4,436   10,874   38,352   45,700   60,950   65,514   71,510  144,306
Incremental Net Benefits             -   -19,169  -38,579   10,917   10,993   10,931   26,241   53,719   61,067   76,317   80,881   86,877  159,673
Financial Rate of Return: 40%
1/ Cull adult males at $b 6.360 and cull adult females at $b 300;
breeding females at $b 500 and breeding males at $b 750.
2/ White fiber at $b 6.90 per kg; color fiber at $b .58 per kg.
2/ Adults at $b 10 and young animals at $b 6.65.
4/ 25 man-days per year. Family labor is valued at $b 35 per day.
5/ Including incremental herd valtue of $b 70,200.
October 5, 1977                                                                                                                                             ' x
'0 -



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 2 - 400 Alpaca Herd (5 families)
Cash Flow Projections
($b)
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1         2        3         4         5         6         7        8         9        10        11        12
Cash Inflow
Sales
Livestock                          -         -   17,280   17,280   14,400   14,400   23,640   49,200   54,200   74,920   77,920   73,320   74,320
Fibers 1/                     8,654    19,008   18,364   19,156   21,120   24,610   30,364   32,514   36,106   39,636   41,200   42,796   44,392
Pelts                         1,190      1,360    1,320    1,580    1,840    1,800    2,060    2,100    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800
Sub-Total                   9,844    20,368   36,964   38,016   37,360   40,810   56,064   83,814   92,106  116,356  120,920  117,916  120,512
Long term loan 2/                 -    29,628   44,575           -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -
Total Cash Inflow             9,844    49,996   81,539   38,016   37,360   40,810   56,064   83,814   92,106  116,356  120,920  117,916  120,512
Cash Outflow 3/
Cash investment costs             -    13,090   44,575    1,500            -    2,280         -         -         -    9,000    9,000          -         -
Cash operating costs            511    16,239   15,335   15,391   16,159   17,391   19,615   19,887   20,831   20,831   20,831   20,831   20,831
Total Cash Outflow              511    29,329   59,910   16,891   16,159   19,671   19,615   19,887   20,831   29,831   29,831   20,831   20,831
Cash balance before
debt service         9,333    20,667   21,629   21,125   21,201   21,139   36,449   63,927   71,275   86,525   91,089   97,085   99,681
Debt Service 4/
Amortization                       -          -        -         -         -    2,200   10,000   12,973   14,529   16,274   18,227              -         -
Interest 12% p.a.                 -      1,778    6,229    8,904    8,904    8,904    8,640    7,440    5,884    4,139    2,186                 -        -
Total Debt Service                -      1,778    6,229    8,904    8,904   11,104   18,640   20,413   20,413   20,413   20,413                 -        -
Cash balance after
debt service         9,333    18,889   15,400   12,221   12,297   10,035   17,809   43,514   50,862   66,112   70,676   97,085   99,681
1/ Excluding domestic use   3 kg of colored fiber per family per year or $b 850 for five families.
2/Cash investment costs of the first two years and first year veterinary supplies.                                                                         < >
3/Excluding the value of family labor.                                                                                                                     X z
41 Ten years' maturity, including four years' grace.
October 5, 1977



BOLIVIA
LILA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No 3 - 1,000-Alpaca Herd (12 families)
Investment Costs
($b)
1                      2                     3                      4                     5                     10                   11
Unit Per      Unit      Number                 Numb,                  Number                Number                 Number                Number                 Number
Farm        Cost      of Units   Cost        of Unite   Cost       of Units   Cost        of Units   Cost        of Units   Cost       of Units   Cost        of Units   Cost
Construction
Holding corral                 2         2,000          2      4,000
Shearing cement slab
with roof                    1        10,000          1     10,000                      - '                                                      -          -                     -                      -
Sub-total               -                        -      14,000          -         -            -          -                -           -      O        _            _        _
Machinery - Equipment
Hand shears                   24            50         12         600         -           -            -                     -          -        12         600
Scale                          2         2,000          2       4,000          -          -                             -               -                -                 -         -           -
Sharpening wheel               2           500          1         500          -           -         1         500           -          -          -           -            -        -           -          -
Fiber holding table            1         1,800          1       1,800                      -                     -           -          -          -           -            -        -           -
Fiber classifying tables    2            2,000          2       4,000         _            _                      _          _           _         -           _            _         _          _          _
Hoof tritmerS                  6           180          3         540                            -          -                      -              3         540
Neck identifying tags   4,000                 2    2,000        4,000                            1,000       2,000               _       -    1,000       2,000
Medical equipment              1        15,000          1      15,000                                           -            -
Sub-total              -            -                  30,440         -            -                 2,500            -           -         -     3,140
Cattle Purchase
Breeding males                40           900        -           -           -             -       -           -              -           _         _           -       20    18,000          20      18,000
Sub-total                           -                                                                 _ _ ,                                                             18,000             -   18,000
Labor  1/                     10 Km      1,085        _            _         10      10,850         _            -              -           -          -          -        -            -          -          -
Sub-total              -             -                                       10,850
Fencing
New                           10         8,915         -             -        10     89,150          -           -
Sub-total                             -                      -               89,150
Total                 -                -        -      44,440               100,000                  2,500                  -           -          3,140                  18,000                18,000  -
1/ Family labor for construction of feacesa
May 14, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULTLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000 Alpaca Herd (12 families)
Herd Projections
With Project
Without       -    -    -    - - - - - - - - - - - -  -Years  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1          2         3         4         5         6          7         8         9        10        11         12
Herd Composition
(at end of year)
Breeding males                  400        410        300       220       170       130        120       100        80        60         60        60        60
Breeding females                400        420        420       460       510       560       640        650       650       650       650        650       650
Females 1-2 yrs.                 50          40        60        90        90       120        140       150       180       190        190       190       190
Males 1-2 yrs.                   50          50        70        70       100       110        150       140       180       190        190       190       190
Female calves                    60          70        90       100       120       150        160       190       200       200        200       200       200
Male calves                      60          70        80       100       120       150        160       190       200       200        200       200       200
Total animals                 1,020      1,060    1,020    1,040    1,110    1,220    1,370    1,420    1,490    1,490    1,490    1,490    1,490
Total adult animals             900         900       920       850       840       870        920    1,050    1,040    1,090    1,090    1,090    1,090
Carrying capacity               .80         .80       .80       .90       .90       1.0        1.0       1.1       1.1       1.1        1.1       1.1       1.1
Mortality
Adults                                       80        70        70        70        60         60        70        60         60        60        60        60
Calves                                       40        40        50        60        60         70        70        60        60         60        60        60
Total                                       120       110       120       130       120        130       140       120        120       120       120       120
Sales
Cull adult males                   -          -       120       120       100       100         60        50        50         50        50        30        30
Cull adult females                 -          -         -         -         -          -         -       100       100        100       100       100       100
Breeding females 1-2  yrs.         -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -        10         50        50        60        50
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.           -           -         -         -         -          -        50       100       110       150        160       150       160
Total                              -          -       120       120       100       100        110       250       270        350       360       340       340
Purchases breeding males             -          -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -        20        20          -         -
Coefficients:
Fertility rate %                    35         45        50        60        65         70        70        70         70        70        70        70         70
Mortality adults %                  10          8         7          7         7         5         5          5         4         4         4          4         4
Mortality calves %                  22         20         20        20        20        18         18        15        14        14         13        13        13
October 5, 1977
aJZ



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model. No. 3 - 1,000 Alpaca Herd (12 families)
Production Projection
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _
Project       1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12
Fiber
No. of animals sheared           452         940       910       920       980    1,100    1,240    1,280    1,370    1,370    1,370    1,370    1,370
Yield per animal (kg)          0.800      0.800    0.800    0.824    0.849    0.878    0.909    0.941    0.974             1.02      1.06      1.10      1.14
Total production (kg)            362        752        728       758       832       966    1,127      1,204    1,334    1,397    1,452    1,507    1,562
White (kg) 1/                     90         188       182       189       208       241       394       421       467       629       653        678       703
Color (kg)                       272        564        546       569       624       725       733       783       867       768       799       829        859
Pelts
Adults                            100         80        70        70        70        60        60        70        60         60        60        60        60
Calves                             30        40         40        50        60        60        70        70        60        60         60        60        60
Livestock
Cull adult males                    -          -       120       120       100       100        60        50        50         50        50        30        30
Cull adult females                  -          -         -         -         -         -         -       100       100        100       100       100       100
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.           -          _                                                 -         -        10         50        50        60        50
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.            -           -         -         -         -         -        50       100       110       150        160       150       160
1/ Proportion of white to colored is 257. from years 0 to 5
35% from years 6 to 8
45% from years 9 to 12
October 5, 1977
,1
- m



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000 Alpaca Herd (12 families)
Production Value and Operating Costs
($b)
With Project
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1         2        3         4         5         6         7         8         9       10        11        12
PRODUCTION VALUE
1. Livestock 1/
Cull adult males                -          -   43,200   43,200   36,000   36,000   21,600   18,000   18,000   18,000   18,000   10,800   10,800
Cull adult females               -         -         -         -         -         -         -   30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.        -          -        -         -         -         -         -         -    5,000   25,000   25,000   30,000   25,000
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.         -          -         -         -         -         -   37,500   75,000   82,500  112,500  120,000  112,500  120,000
Sub-Total                     -          -   43,200   43,200   36,000   36,000   59,100  123,000  135,500  185,000  193,000  183,300  185,800
2. Fiber 2/
Sub-Total                23,876    49,632   48,048   50,012   54,912   63,740   77,974   83,304   92,316  101,154  105,112  109,102  113,092
3. Pelts 3/
Sub-Total                 2,950      3,400    3,300    3,950    4,600    4,500    5,150    5,250    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500
Total Production Value   26,826    53,032   94,548   97,162   95,512  104,240  142,224  211,554  232,316  290,654  302,612  296,902  303,392
OPERATING COSTS
Permanent family labor       76,650    76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   76,650   0
Occasional family
labor 4/                  -    12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600   12,600
Animal health                      -    38,880   38,600   37,420   38,460   41,100   44,900   48,660   49,700   50,800   50,800   50,800   50,800
Land taxes                    1,255      1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255    1,255
Total Operating Costs        77,905   129,385  129,105  127,925  128,965  131,605  135,405  139,165  140,205  141,305  141,305  141,305  141,305
Investment Costs                     -    44,440  100,000    2,500           -    3,140          -         -         -         -   18,000   18,000           -
Investment plus Operating
Costs      77,905   173,825  229,105  130,425  128,965  134,745  135,405  139,165  140,205  141,305  159,305  159,305  141,305
Total benefits 5/               26,826    53,032   94,548   97,162   95,512  104,240  142,224  211,554  232,316  290,654  302,612  296,902  478,892
Net benefits                  -51,079  -120,793 -134,557  -33,263  -33,453  -30,505    6,819   72,389   92,111  149,349  143,307  137,597  337,587
Incremental net benefits             -   -69,714  -83,478   17,816   17,626   20,574   57,898  123,468  143,190  200,428  194,386  188,676  388,666
Financial Rate of Return:   35%
1/ Cull adult males at $b 360 and cull adult females at $b 300; breeding females
at $b 500 and breeding males at $b 750.
2/ White fiber at $b 90 per kg; colored fiber at $b 58 per kg.
3/ Adults at $b 10 and young animals at $b 65.
4/ 360 man-days per year. Family labor is valued at $b 35 per day.
5/ Including incremental herd value of $b 175,000.
October 5, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 3 - 1,000 Alcapa Herd (12 families)
Cash Flow Projections
($b)
With Project
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11         12
Cash Inflow
Sales
Livestock                           -          -   43,200   43,200   36,000   36,000   59,100  123,000  135,500  185,500  193,000  183,300  185,800
Fiber 1/                      21,788    47,544   45,960   47,924   52,824   61,652   75,886   81,216   90,228   99,066  103,024  107,014  111,004
Pelts                          2,950      3,400    3,300    3,950    4,600    4,500    5,150    5,250    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500
Sub-Total                   24,738    50,944   92,460   95,074   93,424  102,152  140,136  209,466  230,228  289,066  300,524  294,814  301,304
Long Term Loan 2/                   -    83,320   89,150           -         -                   -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Cash Inflow             24,738   134,264  181,610   95,074   93,424  102,152  140,136  209,466  230,228  289,066  300,524  294,814  301,304
Cash Outflow 3/
Cash Tnvestment Costs               -    44,440   89,150    2,500            -    3,140           -         -         -         -   18,000   18,000            -
Cash Operating Costs           1,255    40,135   39,855   38,675   39,715   42,355   46,155   49,915   50,955   52,055   52,055   52,055   52,055
Total Cash Outflow             1,255    84,575  129,005   41,175   39,715   45,495   46,155   49,915   50,955   52,055   70,055   70,055   52,055    v
Cash balance before
debt service                  23,483    49,689   52,605   53,899   53,709   56,657   93,981  159,551  179,273  237,011  230,469  224,759  249,249
Debt Service 4/
Amortization                        -          -         -         -    5,000    6,500   25,338   28,379   31,784   35,599   39,870                  -         -
Tnterest, 12% p.a.                  -     4,999   15,347   20,696   20,696   20,096   19,316   16,276   12,870    9,056    4,784                    -          _
Sub-Total                           -     4,999   15,347   20,696   25,696    26,596   44,654   44,655   44,654   44,655   44,654                    -         -
Cash balance after
debt service                  23,483    44,690   37,258   33,203   28,013   30,061   49,327  114,896  134,619  192,356  185,815  224,759  249,249
I/ Excluding domestic use: 3 kg of colored fiber per year per family, or $b 2,088 for 12 families.
2/ Cash investment costs of the first two years and the first year veterinary supplies.
3/ Excluding the value of family labor.
4/ Ten year maturity, including three year grace.
October 5, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000-Alpaca Herd  (55 families)
Investment Costs
($b)
------------------------------------------------------------------- Years --------------------
1                      2                      3                       4                      5                      10                      11
Unit Per      Unit      Number of              Number of               Number of              Number of              _NuTmberof              Nuber of                Number of
Farm        Cost        Units      Cost         Units      Cost        Units      Cost         Units      Cost        Units      Cost        Units      Cost         Units      Cost
Constructions
Holding corral                           1       7,000         1         7,000          -         -         -             -            -
Shearing corral                          1      20,000         1        20,000
Warehouse                                1      28,000         1        28,000
Spray bath                               1      80,000         1        80,000          -         -         -             -            -         _             -          -          -         -             -          -
Sub-total                                                        135,000
Machinery and Equipment
Shearing equipment                       1      35,000         1        35,000
Hand shears                            12            50        6           300          -         -         -                                                  6         300
Sharpening wheel                        2          500         1           500          -         -            1          500                                  - 
Scale                                   3        2,000         3         6,000                                            -
Fiber holding table                      1        1,800        1         1,800          -         -         -             -
Fiber classifying tables                 2       2,000         2         4,000                                            -
Neck identifying tags              12,000             2   6,000         12,000          -         -       6,000        12,000
Hoof triiers                            6           180        3           540                                            -
Medical equipment                        1      15,000         1        15,000          -                     -                -             -           -          -          - _              _
Sub-total                                                          75,140                    -                   12,500
Cattle Purchase
Breeding males                        200          900       -             -            -         -         -                                     -            -          -          100    90,000         100       90,000
Labor 1/                               50 Km    1,085        -             -          50 Km    52,250                                      -                                         -         -             -          -
Sub-total                                                                                  52,250
Fencing
New                                     50 Km    8,915        -            -          50 Km   445,750        -            -
Total                                                             210,140                 498,000                 12,500                                            300                  90,000                 90,000
1/  Family labor for construction of fences.                                                                                                                                                                            t |
May 14, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000 Alpaca Herd (55 families)
Herd Projections
With Project
Without        --------                                                      ears  --------------------------------------------------------------
Project       1            2           3            4            5            6           7            8           9           10          11           12
Herd Composition
(at end of year)
Breeding males           2,000       2,050        1,500       1,100          850         650          600         500         400          300          300         300         300
Breeding females         2,000       2,100        2,100       2,300       2,550        2,800       3,200        3,250       3,250        3,250       3,250        3,250       3,250
Females 1-2 yrs.           250         200          300         450         450          600          700         750          900         950          950         950         950
Males 1-2 yrs.             250         250          350         350          500         550          750         700          900         950          950         950          950
Female calves              300         350          450         500          600         750          800         950       1,000        1,000       1,000        1,000       1,000
Male calves                300         350          400         500          600         750          800         950       1,000        1,000       1,000        1,000       1,000
Total animals            5,100       5,300        5,100       5,200       5,550        6,100       6,850        7,100       7,450        7,450       7,450        7,450       7,450
Total adult animals   4,500          4,600       4,250        4,200       4,350        4,600       5,250        5,200       5,450        5,450       5,450        5,450       5,450
Carrying capacity         0.80        0.80         0.80        0.90         0.90         1.0          1.0         1.1          1.1         1.1          1.1         1.1          1.1
Mortality
Adults                                  400          350         350          350         300          300         350          300         300          300         300          300
Calves                                  200          200         250          300         300          350         350          300         300          300         300          300    m
Total                                   600          550         600          650         600          650         700          600         600          600         600          600
Sales
Cull adult males            -            -           600         600          500         500          300         250          250         250          250          150         150
Cull adult females                                   -            -           -            -           -           500          500         500          500         500          500
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.-               -           -           -                                                               s o _  _  50  250       250          300         250
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.  -               -           -           -            -           -            250         500          550          750         800          750         800
Total                       -            -           600         600          500         500          550       1,250        1,350       1,750        1,800       1,700        1,700
Purchases
Breeding males              -           -            -           -            -            -           -            -           -            100         100          -           -
Coefficients:
Fertility rate %              35           45          50           60          65           70          70           70          70           70          70           70          70
Mortality adults %            10            8           7            7           7            5           5            5           4            4            4           4           4
Mortality calves %            22           20          20           20         20            18           18          15           14          14           13          13          13
October 10, 1977
aD



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model No. 4 - 5000 Alpaca Herd (55 families)
Production Projections
($b)
With Project
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1        2         3         4         5         6        7         8         9        10        11       12
Fiber
No. of animals sheared        2,225      4,700    4,550    4,600    4,900    5,500    6,200    6,400    6,850    6,850    6,850    6,850    6,850
Yield per animal              0.800      0.800    0.800    0.824    0.849    0.878    0.909    0.941    0.974    1.02            1.06      1.10      1.14
Total Production (kg)         1,780      3,760    3,640    3,790    4,160    4,829    5,636    6,022    6,672    6,987    7,261    7,535    7,809
White (kg) 1/                   445        940       910       947    1,040    1,207    1,973    2,108    2,335    3,144    3,267    3,391    3,514
Color (kg)                    1,335      2,820    2,730    2,843    3,120    3,622    3,663    3,914    4,337    3,843    3,994    4,144    4,295
Pelts
Adults                          500        400       350       350       350      300       300       350       300       300      300       300       300    m
Calves                          150        200       200       250      300       300       350       350       300      300       300       300       300
Livestock
Cull adult males                  -          -       600       600      500       500       300       250       250       250      250       150       150
Cull adult females                           -         -         -         -         -        -       500       500       500      500       500       500
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.         -          -         -         -         -        -         -         -        50       250      250       300       250
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.           -          -         -         -         -        -       250       500       550      750       800       750       800
1/ Proportion of white to colored is: 25% from years 0 to 5
35% from years 6 to 8
45% from years 9 to 12
October 5, 1977                                                                                                                                             HID
oolx
-   ,
CD>
coN



BOLIVIA
ULIA ULLA DEVELOPMENI PROJI.CI
Farm Model No. 4 - 5,000 Alpaca lierd (55 families)
Production Value and Operating Costs
(Sb)
With Project
Without       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Years  - - - - - - - - - - -
Project             1              2             3              4              5              6              7             8              9             10             11            12
PRODICTION VALUE
1.  Livestock 1/
Cull adult males                    -              -      216,000        216,000        180,000        180,000        108,000         90,000        90,000         90,000         90,000         54,000        54,000
Cull adult females                                  -                           _                             -              -      150,000        150,000        150,000        150,000        150,000       150,000
Breeding females 1-2 yrs.                          -             -              -                             -             -              -        25,000        125,000        125,000        125,000       125,000
Breeding males 1-2 yrs.                                          -              -              -              -       187,500       375,000        412,500        562,500        600,000        562,500       600,000
Sub-Total                         _             -       216,000        216,000        180,000        180,000        295,500       615,000        677,500        927,500        965,000       916,500        929,000
2.  Fiber 2/
Sub-Total                  117,480        248,160       240,240        250,124        274,560        318,706       390,024        416,732        461,696        505,854        525,682       545,542        565,370
3.  Pelts 3/
Sub-Total                     14,750         17,000         16,500       19,750          23,000         22,500         25,750         26,250         22,500        22,500         22,500         22,500         22,500
Total Production Value       132,230        265,160       472,740        485,750        477,560        521,206        711,274     1,057,982      1,161,696      1,455,854      1,513,182      1,484,542     1,516,870
OPERATING COSTS
Permanent family labor
(30 herders)                 383,250       383,250        383,250        383,250        383,250        383,250       383,250        383,250        383,250        383,250        383,250        383,250       383,250
Occasional family
labor 4/                            -        63,000        63,000         63,000         63,000         63,000         63,000         63,000        63,000         63,000         63,000         63,000         63,000
Animal health                         -       196,600        185,300        186,000        195,600       211,000        238,800        242,200        254,000        254,000       254,000        254,000        254,000
Repairs & maintenance                 _         4,203         14,163         16,264         21,494        21,494         21,619         21,619         21,619         21,619         21,619        21,619         21,619
Land tax                          6,215         6,215          6,215          6,215          6,215          6,215         6,215          6,215          6,215          6,215          6,215         6,215          6,215
Total Operating Costs          389,465        653,268        651,928        654,729        669,559       684,959        712,884        716,284        728,084        728,084        728,084       728,084        728,084
Investment Costs                        -       210,140        498,000         12,500               -           300              -              -              -              -        90,000         90,000
Investment plus
operating costs              389,465        863,408     1,149,928        667,229        669,559        685,259        712,884        716,284        728,084        728,084       818,084        818,084        728,084
Total benefits 5/                 132,230        265,160       472,740        485,750        477,560        521,206        711,274     1,057,982      1,161,696      1,455,854      1,513,182    1,484,542       2,394,370
Net benefits                     -257,235      -598,248       -677,188       -181,479       -191,999       -163,753         -1,610       341,698        433,612        727,770        695,098        666,458     1,666,286
incremental net benefits                -      -341,013       -419,953         75,756         65,236         93,482       255,625        598,933        690,847        985,005        952,333        923,693     1,923,521
Financial Rate of Return: 347,
1/ Cull adult males at $b 360 and cull adult females at $b 300; breeding females at
$b 500 and breeding males at $b 750.
2/ White fiber at $b 90 per kg; colored fiber at $b 58 per kg.
3/ Adults at $b 10 and calves at $b 65.                                                                                                                                                                                     a x
4/ 360 man-days per year.  Family labor is valued at $b 35 per day.
5/ Including incremental herd value at $b 877,500.
October 5, 1977



BOLIVIA
tLIA ULLA DEVELOPUENT PROJECI
Farm ModeL No. 4 - 5,000 Alpaca Hlerd (55 families)
Cash Flow Projection
($b)
With Project
Without       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project             1              2             3              4              5              6              7             8              9             10             1112
Cash Inflow
Sales
Livestock                             -              -       216,000       216,000        180,000        180,000        295,500       615,000        677,500        927,500        965,000        916,500       929,000
Fiber 1/                       107,910        238,590        230,670       240,554        264,990        309,136        380,454       407,162        452,126        496,284        516,112        535,972       555,800
Pelts                           14,750         17,000         16,500        19,750         23,000         22,500         25,750         26,250        22,500         22,500         22,500         22,500        22,500
Sub-Total                    122,660        255,590       463,170        476,304        467,990        511,636       701,704      1,048,412      1,152,126      1,446,284      1,503,612     1,474,972      1,507,300
Long-term loan 2/                       -       406,740        445,750                  -          -              -              -              -              -             -              -              -              -
Total Cash Inflow              122,660        662,330        908,920       476,304        467,990        511,636        701,704     1,048,412      1,152,126      1,446,284      1,503,612      1,474,972     1,507,300
Cash outflow
Cash investment costs                 -       210,140        445,750         12,500              -            300              -              -             -              -        90,000         90.000
Cash operating costs             6,215        207,018        205,678        206,479       223,309        238,709        266,634        270,034       281,834        281,834        291,634        281,834        281,634
Total Cash outflow                6,215       417,158        651,428        220,979       223,309        239,009        266,634        270,034        281,834       281,834        371,834        371,834        281,834
Cash balance before                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
debt service              116,445       245,172        257,492        255,325        244,681       272,627        435,070        778,378        870,292        844,334     1,131,778      1,103,138      1,225,466
Debt Service
Amortication                          -              -              -             -         20,000        30,000        126,320        141,479        158,455        177,470       198,766
Interest, 12, p.a.                   -        24,404         75,554       102,299        102,299         99,899         96,299         81,140         64,164        45,149         23,853
Sub-Total                           -        24,404         75,554       102,299        122,299        129,899        222,619        222,619       222,619        222,619        222,619               -              -
Cash balance after
debt service              116,445       220,768        181,938        153,026        122,382        142,728       212,451        555,759        647,673        621,715        909,159     1,103,138      1,225,466
1/ Excluding domestic use: 3 kilos of colored fiber per family per year, or $b 9,570 for 55 families.
2/ For cash investment cost of year 1 and 2 and first year veterinary supplies.
3/ Excluding the value of family labor.
4/ ren years' maturity, including three years' grace.
October 12, 1977



ANNEX 2
Table 21
-90 -
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Rates of Return and Sensitivity Testing
I. Livestock Models
Model I         Model 2         Model 3          Model 4
(100 alpacas)  (400 alpacas)  (1000 alpacas)  (5000 alpacas)
%               %               %                %
Financial Rate of Return   Above 100            40               35               34
Investment costs increased
by  10%                   Above 100          37              34                33
20%                  Above 100           34              42               31
Operating costs increased
by  10%                   Above 100          36              32                31
20%                  Above 100           33              29               28
Production value of alpaca
fiber dTecreased by 20%  Above 100           34              31                30
40%     90               30              27               26
Total benefits decreased
by 10%
20%                      94               28              25               23
40%                       49              15              13               11
All costs increased by 10%,
all benefits decreased by
20%                           74              23              21                19
October 8, 1977



8OLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DFVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Alpaa., Llama., Vicaa-
Estimated Production Pro-ection
(kg)
1             2            3            4            5            6             7             8              9            10            11            12            13            14             15            16
Ulla Ulla 1/
prod-ctio-                        66,000       66,066        66,132       75,427       79,750       94,360        109,816       121,669       139,557        148,476       170,113       182,123       207,033       220,517       232,553        246,925
Other Areas  2/
Productio-                        66,000       66,066       66,132        66,198       66,264       74,170        82,090        90,166        103,905        114,558       130,755       138,430       157,824       168,03        190.199        201,594
Total production    132,000       132,132      132,264      141,625      146,014      168,530       191,906       211,835         243,462       263,034       300,868       320,553        364,857       388,620       422,752       448,519
Assumptions
1   Herd acne increases at the rain of 0.17. dt-ring years 1 and 2; fran year 3 onward thn increase  a 2%.
Perrentagn of aninals sheared every year is 55-b duri-g years 0, 1 and 2; fion year 3 onwards it incre- ses yearly at varying rates.
Yield per animal per ynar is 0.8 kg  from yPor 0 to year 2; it increases 3% from year 3 to 5; 3.5% fran year 6 to year 9; 4% fron year 9 onwards.
2/  Herd sine increases at the rate of 0.17, from year I to year 6; 1, years 7 and 8;a-d 1.5% from y-ar 9 anwards.  Per-
neetage of animals sheared yearly -i 557. from year 0 to year 4; fran year 5 onwards, It increases at varying rates dae to shearing teclmolagy transfer from Ulla Ulla.
Yield per animal per year cS 0.8 kg from year 0 to year 5; it increases 3% yearly from year 6 onwards.
May 14, 1977



- 92  -                         ANNEX  2
Table 23
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Credit
Total Lending Program = $b 30 million
Subloan                    No. of
Amount       No. of        Beneficiaries
Model                                      $b          Subloans      (Families)
1.  Ulla Ulla
No. 1  100 animals, 1 or 2 families        4,032         300             450
No. 2  400 animals, 5 families            74,203         200           1,000
No. 3 1000 animals, 12 families          172,470          26             312
No. 4 5000 animals, 55 families          852,490           4             220
Total                        529           1,982
2.  Other Areas
No. 1  100 animals, 1 or 2 families        4,032         140             210
No. 2  400 animals, 5 families            74,203          60             300
No. 3 1000 animals, 12 families          172,470           6              72
No. 4 5000 animals, 55 families                            -               -
Total                        206             582
Total
No. 1                                                    440             660
No. 2                                                    260           1,300
No. 3                                                     32             384
No. 4                                                      4             220
736          2,564
October 18, 1977



93                          ANNEX 2
Table 24
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
Phasing of the Lending Program
-------------------------Number of Sub-loans--------
Model No.               Year 3          Year 4         Year 5          Total
1                    100              240           100            440
2                      75             110            75            260
3                       2              15            15              32
4                      -                2             2               4
Total             177              367           192            736
---------------Lending Program ($b '000)----------
Model No.               Year 3          Year 4         Year 5          Total
1                  403,2           967.7           403.2       1,774.1
2                5,565.2         8,162.3        5,565.2       19,292.7
3                  344.9         2,587.0        2,587.1        5,519.0
4                    -           1.705.0         1,705.10      3,410.0
Total       6,313.3         13,422.0       10,260.5      29,995.8
October 18, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM MANAGEMENT SCHEDULE
JAN   FEB   MAR  APRIL  MAY  JUNE  JULY   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV   DEC
CALVING                  _      _  / //// / / /                         / /                        /7/ /
///////////////////                                                  // ///
'7//// /777 /7/7/ /////                                                    /7///
BREEDING                     -       I_ll  ///                                                    //
77 77  7777/77777
'/7//// ///// 7/7// /7////                                                /7///
'/777/ 7/7// /777/ 7/77/                                                  7/77/
SPRAYING (2ND YEAR)    ""/// /       ////                                                         "'///
'/7/7/ 7/7///// /7/  //                                                    /7/7/
'/7/7/ /77// 7/77/ 7/7//                                                   7////
/7/7// 7/7// /7/7/ 7/7//                                                   /7/7/
PARASITE TREATMENT          / /""// """""  i/_  _
'/7/7/ /7/7/ /7//// ////                                                   ////
'/7///  ///// ///// /////                                                 /////
'/7//// 7/7//  /7///  /////                                               7/7//
HEALTH CHECK           //7/ //"' //7/ //                                                          ////
'///// /7/7/ /7/7/ 7/////                                                  /7///
'///// ///// ///// /7////                                                  /7///
WEANING               '//7 ///  /7/ //7/                                                          //
'/7/7/ ///// ///// /7///                                                   /7///
'////  7//// ///// /////                                                  7////
SHEARING & PREGNANCY    //7 //7 ///// //7/                                                         //
DIAGNOSTIC             //7// //// //7/ ///7                                                       //
'/7/7/ 7/7// ///// /7/7/                                                   /7///
'/7/7// /77// ///// /////                                                 7////
SPRAYING (FIRST YEAR)    ///7/  /77/ ////                                                           /7 /
'/7//// /7/7/ /77// 7/////                                                 /7//
'/77// /7/7/ /7//// /7/7/                                                 7////
SELECTION OF PUNTAS    /       //7 //7// //7/                                                       //
'/7/7/ 7/7/ ///// /7/7/                                                    /7///
'/7///  /7/7/ ///// /////                                                  //
PARASITE TREATMENT     "///    "" """", / ////                                                     / // /
'///// /77// ///// /////                                                   /7/7/
'/7/7/ /7/7 /7/7// 7////                                                  z/7/
PREPARATION FOR CALVING ""/">  7/'t/  /77/ /////
& BREEDING'/7/7/ /77// ///// ///7//                                                         /v/
& BREEDING////                                                     ///// /                          /
SUMMER-RAINY SEASON                   WINTER-DRY SEASON               ISUMMER2  rt
LOWEST TEMPERATURES                RAIN    1 
World Bank-17641



- 95 -
ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vicuna Conservation and Development Component
Introduction
1.        The vicuna, like its cousins the llama and alpaca, lives at high
altitudes on the Altiplano of Peru and Bolivia, and small numbers have been
sighted in Chile and Argentina. The vicuna belongs to the camel family but
unlike the llama and alpaca, attempts to domesticate it have been met with
little success. The fact that the vicuna has remained untamed may explain
why there is so little meaningful basic data and hardly any scientific litera-
ture about its physiology, reproduction, and migration patterns. The sketchy
information that does exist has been collected on an ad hoc basis by indivi-
duals specifically engaged to make field observations.
2.        Two important facts about the vicuna are known.  First, it produces
one of the world's finest and softest fleece. This fleece commands extremely
high prices and it was in strong demand in world markets before the Peruvian
and Bolivian Governments clamped down on importation and exportation of vicuna
products and on the trading in wool and hides within the two nations. However,
the black market for vicuna products still functions in spite of the legal re-
striction, and top quality vicuna wool can be bought for about US$25 per pound
compared to only 40 cents per pound for high-grade sheep wool. First-class wool
fabric sells for US$160 a yard in the United States and up to US$650 per yard in
ftaly. Men's vicuna wool suits can be acquired for US$800 to US$1,200 in the
United States and Europe. Second, because of the high prices and strong demand
for its fleece, the yield per animal being only one-quarter to one-half pound
once in two years, poachers killed off an extraordinarily large number. It is
estimated that the total vicuna population has been reduced drastically because
of this indiscriminate killing, from 400,000 in the early 1950s to only about
5,000 at the end of the 1960s. The majority of these survivors has been saved
and numbers have since increased due to the conservation measures taken by Peru
and Bolivia, but vicunas are still being killed for their high-valued fleece
in the two countries. Currently, there are only about 1,000 vicunas in Bolivia.
The proposed project would assist the Government to establish firm control over
poachers, conduct detailed research about the habits of vicunas, and evaluate
ways of breeding them for commercial purposes.
Behavior Patterns
3.         In addition to its unique coat, the vicuna has a distinct social
organization and hierarchical structure. According to information collected in
the field, vicunas may be divided, as a general rule, into two groups--those
that are members of the family band and those that belong to bachelor herds.
The territory of the family band is staked out by an adult male leader who is
responsible for protecting his harem and offspring. Each family grazes habit-
ually in the same territory which has been carefully scent-marked by the adult



- 96 -
ANNEX 3
who feeds separately and remains on guard 20 to 100 meters away from the rest
of his family. Under natural conditions, an adult female gives birth between
February and March each year. However, for reasons still unknown, the vicuna is
unable to multiply in captivity. As the size of the family increases beyond a
certain number, parents may chase their own yearlings from the family's grazing
patch. It is believed that females are often accepted into the neighboring
family, but males must either roam in bachelor groups or challenge the chief of
the harem. Bachelor bands, unlike the family herds, do not occupy a specific
territory but graze on any land available and have no particular social order or
leader.
4.        Areas adjacent to rivers are particularly favored by vicuna, which
graze on a variety of plants and grass growing at altitudes under the snow line
of 5,300 meters. However, because the vicunas prefer to live in separate small
groups and to avoid other animals, they frequently wind up on marginal areas which
are unsuitable for agriculture or stock breeding.
Conservation and Development Programs
5.        The thrust of the conservation efforts is led by the Peruvian and
Bolivian Governments, in whose territories there is the largest concentration of
vicunas, although smaller scale programs have also been introduced in Argentina
and Chile. Judging by the information available from various publications, it
seems safe to conclude that considerable progress has been made in preserving
the vicuna since the national vicuna reserves were established in Peru (Pampa
Caleras) and Bolivia (Ulla Ulla) in 1965 and 1971, respectively. Tentative esti-
mates indicate that the total vicuna population has reached a respectable size
of about 40,000, of which 25,000 were accounted for on the Pampa Caleras and 600
in the Ulla Ulla reserves. A small wildlife management program of vicuna breed-
ing in captivity has been in operation for about 50 years. The program is being
implemented in the Cala Cala ranch in Peru and it involves about 1,000 vicunas
which are cross-breed with alpacas. Although the results have not been conclusive,
the cross of paco-vicuna seems to have a good potential for further development
as it combines the high wool quality of the vicuna with the high wool production
capacity of the alpaca. Considerable experiments would need to be carried out to
obtain meaningful data for eventual commercial replicability.
6.        The above conservation programs were further reinforced by the Inter-
national Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources in Switzerland
when in 1968 it declared the vicuna a rare and endangered species. In 1969,
Bolivia and Peru introduced a 10-year moratorium on all killing, marketing and
exporting of vicuna and Chile and Argentina became signatories soon after.
Pelts, which become available through death by natural causes are safeguarded
in warehouses. In 1970, the vicuna came under federal protection in the United
States, which means that no vicuna, dead or alive, can be imported without a
special permit for scientific purposes, nor can any part--skin or fleece or any-
thing else--be imported from another country.
Conservation Program in Bolivia
7.        The Ulla Ulla reserve is located in the Department of La Paz and com-
prises 200,000 ha of native rangeland stocked with approximately 300,000 alpacas



- 97 -
ANNEX 3
and about 600 vicunas. The reserve is administered by the Wildlife and
National Parks Division of the Forestry Department in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. The Chief of the Division is responsible for planning and implementing
the conservation and wildlife development programs. The Division employs 32
guards, three of which are stationed on a full-time basis in Ulla Ulla. Guard
duty consists of patrolling the reserve area, making on-the-spot checks to
discourage potential vicuna hunters and enforcing the fishing laws; conducting
a biennial inventory of the vicuna population; and explaining the purpose of
the conservation programs to the local population. The guards are paid by
the Ministry of Agriculture but their living quarters, uniforms and one patrol
jeep and initial training are provided by the World Wildlife Fund and the
Frankfurt Zoological Society of Germany. Although the Government has estab-
lished the basic infrastructure for the protection of vicunas in the Ulla Ulla
reserve, the program suffers seriously from lack of funds, qualified personnel
and supporting basis and applied research to permit eventual development of
the vicunas as an economic resource, together.with alpacas and llamas.
Vicuna Conservation and Development Component Objective and Content
8.        The purpose of the component would be to find effective ways to
protect and develop vicuna resources in Bolivia. Specifically, the project
would provide a small sum to strengthen the present protection scheme for
vicunas, train guards and introduce research and experimentation activities,
which should lead to the establishment of a systematic vicuna management
program in the Ulla Ulla reserve and throughout Bolivia.
9.        Strengthening of the conservation program would be accomplished
through the recruitment of about six additional guards, their training and
provision of accommodation facilities, new observation posts, additional
vehicles and other complementary equipment which they need in their work. It
is highly unlikely that the protection program can be implemented successfully
in Bolivia unless   the 10-year moratorium, which expires in 1979, on all
killing, marketing and exporting of vicunas' skin or fleece, is extended
beyond 1979. Assurances would be obtained during negotiations that the
Government would discuss this matter with Peru, Chile and Argentina and will
support the extension of the moratorium beyond 1979.
10.       The research and experimentation effort would focus on the following
matters: (a) competition between vicuna and alpacas/llamas and other animals
for space and pasture; (b) possibilities for co-existence of vicunas with
other animals; (c) identification of the essential inputs for domesticating
and managing vicunas; (d) potential for increasing vicuna population by way
of modern breeding techniques; (e) the desirability for cross-breeding between
vicunas and alpacas to produce more and better quality wool; (f) migration
pattern of the   vicuna and its natural habitat characteristics; (g) the
vicuna's physiology, its reproduction cycle, and parasites to which it is
susceptible; and (h) periodic surveys for the preparation and maintenance of a
comprehensive inventory of vicunas in Ulla Ulla and other parts of Bolivia.



- 98 -
ANNEX 3
Cost
11.       The total investment costs would amount to $b 544,000 (US$27,200).
Annual current cost during the five-year implementation period would be
$b 160,000 (US$8,000). Detailed investment and current cash costs are shown
in Table 1.
Implementation
12.       The Chief of the Division responsible for the Experiment Station
in Ulla Ulla would be in charge of the daily operations of the vicuna component.
He would be assisted by specialized staff of the division for the implementa-
tion of particular facets. The conservation programs would be coordinated with
the Government's overall policies in Bolivia as well as with Peru, Chile and
Argentina. The National Institution for Development of Wool (INFOL) would
enter into an operational contract not later than one year after loan signing
with the Wildlife and National Parks Division to ensure coordinated efforts.
INFOL would take the necessary measures to exchange information and experts in
this field with Peru, Chile and Argentina.
June 21, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vicuna Conservation and Development Component
Investment and Recurrent Cash Costs
------- ---------Years---_-__________           Total             Total   Foreign    Foreign
1         2         3         4        5       Cost              Cost    Exchange   Exchange
Investment Cost                 ----------------------------$b ----------------------------         US$                    US$
Four-wheel drive vehicle    160,000       -                                      160,000       8,000          95      7,600
Field glasses                   7,200    -         -          -       -             7,200         360         80        288
Field kits                     6,000      -        -          -       _             6,000         300         60        180
Observation posts            140,000      -        -          -       -           140,000      7,000          10        700
Improvement and expansion
of existing buildings       100,000     -         -          -       -          100,000       5,000          30      1,500
Guards' training              60,000   60,000      -          -       -           120,000      6,000           -        -
Miscellaneous                   5,400    5,400    -           -       -            10,800       -540 
Sub-total                 478,600   65,400      -          -       -          544,000      27,200          38    10,268
Operating Costs
Salaries                     120,000  120,000  120,000  120,000  120,000          600,000      30,000          -        -
Vehicle operating costs       40,000   40,000   40,000   40,000   40,000          200,000      10,000          15     1,500
Sub-total                 160,000  160,000  160,000  160,000  160,000         800,000      40,000           4      1,500
Total  baseline cost         638,000  225,400  160,000  160,000  160,000    1,344,000         67,200           18    11,768
Physical contingency (10%
of investment cost)         47,860    6,540       -        -         -           54,400      2,720          38      1,034
Total  cost including
physical contingency      686,460  231,940  160,000  160,000  160,000    1,398,400         69,920          18    12,802
Jn  2
June 21, 1977w



- 100 -
ANNEX 4
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wool Collection, Storage and Processing Component
I. BACKGROUND
Bolivian Textile Industry
1.        The Bolivian textile industry, accounting for almost 20% of the labor
force in the industrial sector, has been growing in recent years at a rate of
about 3.5% to 4% per annum. Of the estimated 125 mills registered, only seven
belong to the wool sector, two of which account for about 75% of the installed
capacity. The total installed capacity of the textile industry is estimated
at 54,000 spinning spindles and some 1,650 looms. The wool industry alone
accounts for about 28% and 20% of spindles and looms of the textile industry,
respectively. In terms of labor force, the wool industry employs about 28% of
the total labor force in the textile industry, being second to the cotton
sector, which accounts for over 60% of the installed capacity.
2.        The wool sector, unlike the overall textile industry, has undergone
a slight decline in recent years as a result of increased penetration of syn-
thetic fibers, mainly acrylics. A study of the industry by Werner Management
consultants on behalf of the Bolivian Government in 1974/75, found that mills
were usually obsolete, in a poor state of maintenance, and had inadequate
processing technology, working methods, and management. The Inter-American
Development Bank is expected to finance a modernization program soon for
selected areas of the textile industry.
Raw Materials
3.        The principal raw materials for the wool industry are sheep wool,
alpaca/llama fiber, and acrylics, all of which are processed by five mills into
fabric, yarn, blankets and travelling rugs, and hats. Although Bolivia's
production of wool exceeds the industry's requirements, the wool sector must
import substantial amounts of better quality foreign sheep wool (Argentina,
Uruguay and Peru) since the Bolivian sheep wool quality is not satisfactory
for fine combed yarns. Wool imports usually supply about 30% of local
processing requirements. Inadequate scouring of raw materials is partly
responsible for the processing mill's preference for imported tops and scoured
wool.
4.        During the 1974-76 period, the wool industry accounted for two-thirds
of the total alpaca fiber production which averaged 132 tons annually. Only
two enterprises -- the state enterprise, COMBOFLA, and a cooperative, FOTRAMA --
are involved in spinning alpaca fiber. A third enterprise, FORNO, also buys



- 101 -
ANNEX 4
small quantities of fiber, usually from COMBOFLA, to incorporate into its
woolen blankets and travelling rugs. Most of the fiber collected is processed
into knitting yarns for sale to artisans. Total yarn production has been in-
creasing by about 12% a year since 1974 and in 1976 reached 45 m tons.
5.        The amount of llama fiber presently produced is small relative to
the potential for large-scale production, the absence of dehairing technology
has been the obstacle. COMBOFLA's collection of llama fiber varies consider-
ably from year to year, and has been estimated at about 55 tons per annum
in recent years. Except for some sales to FORNO, it has been exported to the
USA and Europe, where it is dehaired and processed into fine fabrics.
Processing
6.        Increasing sales of handicraft items have generated a large demand
for yarn by low income groups in rural and urban areas where unemployment and
underemployment are high. This demand goes unsatisfied, because Bolivia's
processing capacity of alpaca wool is limited to an estimated 25% of total
demand. There is a critical need for a modernization program to raise this
level, introduce improved technology and processing facilities, and improve
management and organization.
7.        FOTRAMA.  The FOTRAMA complex is an integrated cooperative estab-
lished 17 years ago to provide education, health care and employment to
communities in the Cochabamba area. As part of this cooperative, there is a
small mill which produces coarse semi-worsted alpaca yarn, which is distri-
buted to its members for making handicraft items such as ponchos, shawls,
sweaters, blankets and rugs. The plant is equipped with very obsolete
machinery, mostly dating back to the turn of the century. However, it is in
better operating condition than the COMBOFLA Pulacayo plant (para 11). Other
than replacing some equipment, FOTRAMA does not have any expansion plans.
8.        Workers and employees are associates of the cooperative and there
are presently about 28 employees at the plant and some 850 associate workers
in 10 artisan centers. The plant is operated on one shift, and, in addition
to yarn production, carded fabrics and carpets are produced on five wooden
hand looms. About 20% of yarn production is used at the plant for weaving
fabrics and rugs and the balance is distributed to the members of the
cooperative in the various artisan centers for hand-knitting garments. Work
methods are deficient and machine and labor productivity is low, plus tech-
nical know-how is lacking and basic controls are totally absent. The alpaca
raw material is not scoured prior to carding, thus creating undesirable dust
in the spinning processes. The yarn is washed in ordinary house detergent
prior to weaving or knitting. In spite of these deficiencies, this small
plant turns out acceptable yarn for handicraft items and the end products are
of high quality.
9.        Production of fabrics is about 1,200 meters/month and 17 carpets.
In the centers, total production of garments and wool hats is about 1,200
pieces/month. FOTRAMA is engaged in a brisk export business, mainly to the
USA and Europe, which accounts for about 40% of its output. Most of the export
business is done through religious organizations in those countries.



- 102 -
ANNEX 4
10.       FOTRAMA purchases its raw material mostly from intermediaries, al-
though it has recently attempted to collect directly from the producing areas.
The management has reported that the cooperative suffers from a chronic
shortage of raw material because COMBOFLA has refused to sell raw alpaca
fiber or yarns to FOTRAMA, but has continued to export the fiber in excess
of Pulacayo plant processing requirements. In addition, since 1972, COMBOFLA
has been involved in purchasing handicraft products and is reserving an
increasing share of its yarn production for artisans who will sell their
end products to the COMBOFLA store.
11.       COMBOFLA.  The COMBOFLA processing plant in Pulacayo (about 700 km
from La Paz) is housed in three old warehouses which are not suitable for
textile processing. Raw material must be transported by train, which takes
15 hours from La Paz. The plant processes only alpaca fiber, and production
is limited to spinning alpaca yarns on a modified semi-worsted system. It has
an installed capacity of 800 spinning spindles although 400 are in no condition
to be used. It is operated on one eight-hour shift and employs 49 persons and
12 temporary sorters. Its production rate is just over 10 kg of yarn per hour,
about 250,000 kg per annum.
12.       Under current conditions, the COMBOFLA's plant at Pulacayo does not
lend itself to expansion and modernization for the following reasons:
(a) The location is poor and results in very high transportation
costs. The choice of the plant site was made for socio-
political reasons to provide employment to the families in
Pulacayo, since the Government had closed an existing mine
in the area;
(b) The plant layout which had to follow existing facilities is
deficient and unsuitable for efficient processing;
(c) Most of the equipment is obsolete and in deplorable mechanical
condition. Maintenance is difficult since spare parts are not
available on the market and under current conditions the plant
is not expected to continue operations beyond three to five
years from now;
(d) Work methods and plant conditions (safety measures, lighting
and humidity control) are deficient; quality control is non-
existent at all stages of processing; and technical and super-
visory staff lacks the know-how and experience require to run
a modern mill; and
(e) The plant has been operating at a loss, and at best, only with
marginal profits. Production costs are high and productivity
is low. Labor accounts for about 39% of total costs (in Peru,
the labor cost of a new alpaca spinning plant is about 7% of
total costs).



- 103 -
ANNEX 4
MHarketing
13.       The marketing infrastructure for the alpaca/llama/wool agro-industry
complex is inadequate and deficient. There is a critical need to improve and
strengthen the selection system and storage facilities, and to place greater
emphasis on product quality and export promotion.
14.       Raw Material.  COMBOFLA accounts for most of the collection of alpaca
and llama raw material although FOTRAMA gathers some raw materials from the
Central Altiplano. Also, a substantial amount of alpaca and llama fiber is
bought by itinerant tradesmen (rescatistas) directly from producers at local
fairs. Due to the poor marketing infrastructure at the production level and
because of higher prices in Peru, about 40% of total production in the project
area is sold across the border.
15.       In recent years, COMBOFLA has collected about 45 tons of alpaca fiber,
of which 35 tons have been used by the Pulacayo processing plant for the pro-
duction of yarns. Collection of llama hair has averaged about 55 tons and
sheep wool, about 190 tons. Overall, COMBOFLA's gathering system is restricted
to selected producing areas, leaving out some remote regions which account for
a substantial part of total production. Currently, COMBOFLA operates with
three rural agencies (Puerto Acosta, Oruro and Charana), four main gathering
posts and 13 secondary gathering posts, operated by a staff of 21 persons.
There is one main and five secondary posts in the project area. In general,
facilities such as office, warehouse and equipment, are small, inadequate and
in poor condition. Transportation facilities are insufficient and constitute
a major bottleneck in COMBOFLA's marketing system.  COMBOFLA now has only one
old truck and one light vehicle. Marketing and price information is scarce,
with COMBOFLA providing some at the main gathering centers only. Besides
offering lower prices than those in Peru, the fiber brought by the farmers to
the collecting points is paid for by the kg, which is equivalent to 2 lb
instead of 2.2 lb. This set-up confuses the farmers, who are used to the
Peruvian system of buying by the pound.  In addition, many times the farmer
does not receive immediate cash payments but instead is issued a credit voucher
which he will exchange against cash when it becomes available (often a month
or two later).
16.       Sorting-grading.  The wool is sorted in the El Alto Station near
La Paz. The sorting and classification system used for sheep wool is limited
to six grades and is deficient and generally not acceptable to spinners who
prefer to gather and sort their own wool or to import it. Sorting of alpaca
and llama fiber is by color only (six), so that the range of yarn colors and
shades is limited. Fiber length and fineness are not generally taken into
account, which causes problems in spinning and prevents production of fine
combed yarns.
17.       End Products.  Bolivia has developed a profitable tourist and export
market of artisanal end products, i.e., sweaters, ponchos, blankets and other
garments. This is in marked contrast with Peru, the largest alpaca fiber



- 10  -
ANNEX 4
producer, a country that exports over 90% of its production in unprocessed or
semi-processed form. The added value of end products as against raw material
is of the order of 150%. Bolivian export legislation discourages the export
of raw materials, imposing an export tax of 25% on unprocessed textile raw
materials. This has the effect of encouraging their transformation into semi-
finished or finished products. Presently, the domestic tourist market for
these artisanal products is good and is expected to remain attractive if
appropriate product adaptation and market development efforts are undertaken.
18.       Additionally, export potential for alpaca/llama products is high,
since they are available in Bolivia and Peru only, and world demand is such
that present supplies (mainly from Peru) do not satisfy existing demand.
Also, export trade requirements of alpaca and llama products are relatively
simple. Since these products are not a universal textile raw material traded
in commodity exchanges, such as cotton, jute or wool, export trade requirements
or price quotations are limited to individual negotiations between buyers and
sellers. Further, there are no international quality standards for alpaca
and llama fibers or mandatory identification of such fibers in end products.
There is also an absence of a universal trade-mark, such as the IWS trade-
mark for wool, to identify these fibers.
19.       Alpaca/llama meat, hides, and pelts are also marketed on a small
scale. There is a low demand for alpaca and llama meat throughout Bolivia,
with consumption confined to the producing areas and among miners. Both
alpaca and llama meat are of good quality, but there is a superstition among
Bolivians that disease can be transmitted by it. At present an excessive
number of pelts is being processed for the handicraft industry, mainly for
bedspreads, hats, and rugs. The large supply comes from small animals and
the increased slaughtering of young animals. Currently, there is no legis-
lation to regulate the production and marketing of pelts. Currently, there
is no legislation to regulate the production and marketing of pelts, but to
avert a decline in the alpaca and llama population, there is a need for such
legislative control of the slaughter of young animals.
20.       Prices and Price Setting.  Farmgate prices of alpaca fiber have in-
creased substantially over the past year rising from $b 15 per kg for white
fiber and an average of $b 5.7 for colored fiber (US$0.75 and US$0.29) in 1976,
to $b 90 for white (US$4.5) and $b 56 for colored fiber (US$2.8) in 1977.
COMBOFLA is the main buyer and it determines and fixes prices every six
months. There have been some fluctuations, as indicated in Tables 1 and 2,
but they remain substantially under those in neighboring Peru, where 90% of
the fiber collected is exported in processed and unprocessed form at prices
determined by world market conditions. Farmgate prices in the Puno area in
Peru in 1977 were reported to be between US$5.5 and US$6.5 per kg for alpaca
white fiber. The fact that COMBOFLA's buying prices are usually 15 to 25%
lower for white wool and 20 to 30% lower for colored wool has thus resulted
in substantial outflows of Bolivian fiber to Peru.



- 105 -
ANNEX 4
21.       The selling price of COMBOFLA alpaca yarn is currently US$12.50
per kg, which does not allow Pulacayo plant to cover its costs. In Peru,
the ex-factory price of alpaca yarn is about US$19 per kg for yarns of about
the same quality. This is actually equivalent to a subsidy to foreign
tourists in Bolivia. Also, the booming Peruvian handicraft industry shows
that an expanding market exists for these products at even higher prices.
Lower priced garments could still be produced by mixing alpaca fiber with
llama fiber or sheep wool in yarn produced.
22.       Prices of yarn should be adjusted to reflect production cost.  More-
over farmgate prices should be adjusted to follow the Peruvian prices so that
the substantial outflow of raw materials to Peru can be stopped and farmers
will have sufficient incentive to increase production.
II.  WOOL COLLECTION, STORAGE AND PROCESSING UNDER THE PROJECT
23.       The project would finance the expansion and improvement of the
collection system, a new centrally located warehouse and a new processing
plant. The project would also include consultant services to provide tech-
nical know-how, implement the plant control program and train plant workers.
In addition the project would make provision for the establishment of a
pricing mechanism that would bring Bolivian prices in line with those in Peru.
The Gathering System
24.       The collection network would be enlarged and improved to cover
all the producing areas. Facilities would be expanded by renting larger
storage rooms, and five new posts would be built (one main and four secondary)
and adequately staffed. All gathering posts would be provided with adequate
furniture and office equipment. The project would finance the purchase of
five new vehicles, three five-ton trucks and two lighter four-wheel drive
vehicles for transportation of the fiber to La Paz.
Storage Facilities
25.       Since collection of wool and fiber is seasonal (October/November to
March/April), warehouse facilities would be needed for storage of collected
raw materials for processing. A warehouse would be built in El Alto, near
La Paz, close to the processing plant. It would be equipped with two vehicles
(one five-ton truck and one pick-up), three hydraulic wool presses, two fork-
lift trucks and furniture and office equipment. It would have a total staff
of 16 persons, as shown in Table 5.
Processing Plant
26.       The project would finance a new spinning plant with a total annual
capacity of 595 m tons of yarns (on a three-shift basis, or 300 m tons on a
two-shift basis). The plant would also include a scouring unit for the



- 106 -
ANNEX 4
processing of 1,800 m tons of sheep wool for the Bolivian wool mills, plus
the raw materials to be used by the plant for spinning of yarns (Table 4).
La Paz was selected as the site for the new mill for the following reasons:
(a)  the new mill would do all wool scouring for the Bolivian
mills and all are located in the La Paz area;
(b) La Paz is geographically closer to the Ulla Ulla plains
and the Central Altiplano, which are the major production
zones for alpaca and llama fiber;
(c) about 75% of yarn sales are concentrated in metropolitan
La Paz;
(d) most of the machinery agents are in La Paz, thus minimizing
problems related to technical assistance and acquisition
of spare parts;
(e) La Paz provides adequate power, water, and communication
services, which are vital to a textile processing plant;
(f) skilled and unskilled labor is readily available;
(g) it would be easier to hire competent managerial and
technical personnel in La Paz than in any other suitable
location; and
(h) there is suitable road or rail transportation between
La Paz and the port of Matarani in Peru for shipping
the plant's products to the export markets.
27.       Raw Material for Processing.  Requirements of the improved collection
network, the warehouse and of the plant have been based on projected availabi-
lities of raw material, as shown in Tables 4 and 5. Production of alpaca
fiber has been projected to increase from the current 132 m tons to 462 m tons
by 1997 on the basis of the implementation of the credit program and extension
services and improvement of the marketing system and pricing mechanism
(para 37). Llama fiber collected would increase from 55 m tons to 167 m tons
and, if the dehairing technology is feasible, to 1,150 m tons. The total
volume of wool gathered would increase from about 200 to 2,000 m tons. All
raw material would be sorted and classified at the new mill in accordance with
improved sorting norms.
28.       Production and Product Mix.  The variety and types of yarn to be
spun in the new mill would depend largely on the increase of alpaca production
and the implementation of the llama dehairing processing technology. The
production mix has been projected on the basis of increased availability of
raw material, as shown in Table 4. However, different mixes would not pose



- 107 -
ANNEX 4
any problem since plant characteristics offer a great deal of versatility.
The various stages of production by end products are schematically illus-
trated in Chart 1.
29.       Equipment.  The list of equipment required for the new mill and
its tentative cost are shown in Table 6.
30.       Land and Building.  The processing plant, including the warehouse,
would be located in El Alto area near La Paz. The new mill would occupy an
area of about 10,000 square meters, and the proposed one-story shed-type
building would have a covered area of 7,000 square meters, including ware-
housing, office facilities and worker services such as cafeteria and rest
rooms. The cost of the land includes levelling, drainage and water ducts as
follows:
US$            $b
Land (US$45/sq meter)                 75,000       1,500,000
Building (US$45/sq meter)            315,000       6,300,000
Project and engineering cost          25,000         500,000
415,000      8,300,000
31.       Labor.  Tables 7 and 8 show direct and indirect labor requirements,
with annual wages and salaries based on higher levels paid by the Bolivian
wool industry in 1976. Prevailing social charges and fringe benefits in
Bolivia represent 131% of base salary for hourly-paid workers and 73% for
salaried personnel. Labor requirements are based on a two-shift operation.
32.       Labor and Personnel Costs Prior to Plan Start-up.  Plan operations
are assumed to begin in year 3 of the project, but the following labor and
personnel costs would be incurred prior to start-up:
(a)  Technical and Administrative                           US$          $b
1 plant manager (11 months salary)                   12,830       256,600
1 textile engineer (11 months salary)                 9,170       183,400
1 industrial engineer (11 months salary)              7,600       152,000
(b) Supervision and Labor
2 shift supervisors (3 months salary)                 1,440        28,800
6 maintenance mechanics/electricians
(3 months salary)                               3,150        63,000
Operators for first shift (2 months wages)            4,650        93,000
1 sorting supervisors (2 months wages)                  300         6,000
20 sorters (2 months wages)                           3,600        72,000
Total labor/personnel costs
prior to plant start-up                         42,740      854,800



- 108 -
ANNEX 4
33.       Technical Assistance and Training.  The new plant would require
assistance from a specialized consulting firm, which would provide technical
know-how and implement all the mill control programs. External assistance
would also be required to set up a training program in order to train
operators through rapid and efficient courses based on analytical and scienti-
fic methods. The training program would provide courses for the following
positions, as a minimum: card tenders, intersecting operators, comber
operators, spinners and doffers, winder tenders, and twister tenders. Further,
the technical assistance and organization programs to be implemented by an
external consulting firm would include:
(a) quality control program determination of standards/tolerances;
(b) determination of job loads and job specifications;
(c) determination of processing data;
(d) planning and production control;
(e) standard labor cost and control;
(f) maintenance control; and
(g) waste control.
34.       The following is a breakdown of consulting man-weeks required for
the above operator training and technical assistance programs:
(a)  operator training programs                        21 man-weeks
(b) technical assistance for processing
data, job load, production standards,
quality control, maintenance control,
waste control, and labor cost control             22 man-weeks
Total                                   43 man-weeks
It is estimated that the above program would cost about US$110,000 ($b 2.2
million).
35.       An expert would also be hired for about 12 man-weeks to help in
setting up an adequate fiber pricing mechanism, establishing grading norms,
and training the sorting operators. The cost of such an expert is estimated
at about US$9,000 ($b 180,000).
36.       Finally, up to six months' training prior to the start-up of
operations would be arranged for the plant manager, textile engineer and
industrial engineer in modern and efficient wool mills in Europe and possibly
Argentina. They would also attend short specialized courses in those
countries. The cost of such travel would be:



- 109 -
ANNEX 4
US$           $b
Travel                         6,000        120,000
Per diems                      16,200       324,000
Total                   22,200        444,000
Pricing Mechanism
37.       Under the project, the Government would be required to establish a
pricing mechanism which wbuld provide an incentive to producers and artisans
to increase production; and ensure a steady and timely supply of raw materials
to the processing plant and yarn to artisans. Guaranteed minimum prices would,
inter alia, reflect farm production costs, collection and storage costs, oper-
ating costs of the processing plant including a reasonable profit margin, and
the prevailing prices in Peru. In order to support this price guarantee
scheme, a stabilization fund would be set up and supported initially by
Government's contribution and built progressively from the profits of the new
processing plant.
38.       The Planning and Monitoring Division (PM) of INFOL would formulate
and regulate purchasing and selling prices of fiber and yarn.
Cost Estimates
39.       The project would provide financing for the following costs:
(a) investment expenditures incurred in the expansion and improve-
ment of the collection network (US$116,132, including physical
contingencies), the construction and equipment of wool and
fiber storage facilities (US$144,540), and the installation of
a new scouring and spinning plant (US$3,404,896), including
operating expenses incurred before start-up of operations,
technical assistance and training. Total investment costs
amount to US$3,665,568 ($b 73.3 million). Summaries of these
costs are given in Tables 3, 4 and 10;
(b) incremental working capital required to allow the system to
start operating at higher levels of activity. More specifi-
cally, it would consist of an amount to cover:
(i) six months of incremental operating costs incurred
during the second semester of year 2 by the collection
network in order to gather an initial stock of raw
materials before the plant start up (the Pulacayo
plant would be stopping operations at the end of
year 2). Such incremental costs consist mostly of
salaries of additional staff and renting of new
facilities, amounting to US$9,016 ($b 180,320);
(ii) operating costs of the new warehouse for the same
six months equals US$18,950 ($b 379,020); and



_ 110 -
ANNEX 4
(iii) the value of the incremental stock of raw material
gathered during late year 2 and early year 3 for
the plant to be able to operate continuously in
year 3 (US$1.5 million).
Total costs of wool collection, storage and processing plant are summarized
below:
Total     Total       Foreign    Foreign
Costs     Costs       Exchange   Exchange
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    $b '000    US$'000           %       US$'000
Investment costs
Processing plant    11,346    50,561        -        61,907      3,095          84        2,609
Collection and
storage              -         4,740      -         4,740        237          64          152
Incremental working
capital
Collection
network             -          172       _           172          9          _           _
Storage               -           379      -           379         19          -           -
Inventory
build-up            -         9,743    20,257    30,000       1,500          -           -
Baseline cost           11,346    65,595      20,257     97,198    4,860           57        2,761
Physical contin-
gencies (10%
of investment)         1,135     5,530       -          6,665       333          57          190
Total project cost      12,481    71,125    20,257    103,863    5,193             57        2,951
Operating Results
40.       The financial rate of return obtained is 29% detailed calculations
for which are shown in Tables 10 and ll. Sensitivity tests have been carried
out under various assumptions as indicated below.



- 111 -
ANNEX 4
Financial Rate of Return
Best estimate                                                   29
Investment cost increased by:
10%                                 26
20%                                 23
Cost of alpaca fiber increased by:
20%                                 28
40%                                 26
Cost of sheep wool for scouring increased by:
20%                                 17
40%                                  5
All operating costs increased by:
20%                                 20
40%                                  5
Price of alpaca yarn decreased by:
20%                                 23
40%                                 13
Price of scoured wool decreased by:
20%                                 15
40%                                  1
Volume of alpaca fiber and yarn decreased by:
20%                                 25
40%                                 19
Volume of sheep wool and woolen yarn decreased by:
20%                                 28
40%                                 26
Rate of return with llama dehairing technology                  35



- 112 -
ANNEX 4
Implementation
41.       The Marketing and Processing Division (COMPRO) of INFOL would be
responsible for the implementation of the collection, storage and processing
component, according to the time schedule presented in Chart 2. COMPRO
would take over the existing COMBOFLA facilities and would assume full res-
ponsibility for the collection, sorting, packing and selling of fleece and
yarn to artisans and industrial users. For the wool collection, storage
and processing a loan would be made by the Government to INFOL under the
project for the total amount of US$5.2 million. It would have a total maturity
of 15 years, including a grace period of five years for amortization and two
years for interest payments. The rate of interest would be 12%. The schedule
of debt repayment is shown in the attached cash flow projections (Table 12).
December 8, 1977



- 113 -                         ANNEX  4
Tables 1 and 2
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Bolivia - Prices paid by COMBOFLA for Alpaca Fiber
($b per kg)
Color                1971       1972       1973       1974       1975      1976       1977
White               15.01      14.72      28.56      42.50      38.92      63.23     90.00
Light Fawn          12.45      12.55      22.88      35.75      36.50     60.86      70.00
Coffee               5.75       7.82      21.09      33.92      29.50     39.17      56.00
Black                5.74       7.82      21.04      33.83      28.58     39.17      56.00
Gray                 5.71       7.82      21.04      33.83     27.50      39.25      56.00
Mixed                5.68       7.83      18.46      18.67      16.33     21.92      36.00
Table 2:  Peru - FOB Prices, First Quality Raw Fiber (Greasy)
(Mostly White)
Exchange
Rate = Soles/        ',US$
Sales/kg             US$1              per kilo
1967                      99.7                27                3.69
1968                       89.1               38                2.34
1969                      69.4                38                1.83
1970                       70.8               38                1.86
1971                       59.9               38                1.58
1972                      68.0                38                1.79
1973                     107.6                38                2.83
1974                     129.0                45                3.39
1975                     109.8                45                2.44
1976                     300.0*               69                4.35
* Provisional
June 6, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Processing Plant
Volume of Raw Material Processed 1/
Raw Materials for Production of Yarns                                                 Production of Yarns
For Scouring                                                                                Production of
(m tons - Greasy Basis)                      only                                 (m tons of yarns)                                Scoured  Sheepwool
Sheep                                                                      Sheep                                       (m tons)
Year          Alpaca        Llama        Wool           Acrylic         Sheepwool       Alpaca         Llama         Wool         Acrylic         Total        Clean basis
3   1980        56           122          174             115             1350           32             44            73           111             260              675
4               75           140          200             126             1800           43             50            85           122             300              900
5               80           140          190             126             1800           46             50            82           122             300              900
6              100           140          180             122             1800           57             50            75           118             300              900
7              120           145          167             113             1800           68             52            70           110             300              900
8              140           145          155             106             1800            80            52            65           103             300              900
9              165           145          145              97             1800           94             52            60            94             300              900
10              195           150          131              82             1800          111             54            55            80             300              900
11              230           150          113              67             1800          131             54            50            65             300              900
12              250           155          107              38             1800          142             56            65            37             300              900
13              295           155           95              37             1800          168             56            40            36             300              900
14              320           160           83              26             1800          182             58            35            25             300              900
15              355           160           60              16             1800           202            58            25            15             300              900
16              38o           165           10              -              1800          217             59           20              -             300              900
17              390           167           -                              1800          222             60            18             -             300              900
I/ One shift only during the first 3 months of operation, 2 shifts afterwards. These volumes do not take
into account extra benefits from possible future llama dehairing.
December 6, 1977
D0



-115 -
ANNEX .4
BOLIVIA                                Table 4
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Processing Plant
Alpaca Raw Material Available
--             Greasy Basis
(m tons)
Projected                               Domestic use          Processing
Year                Production           Fotrama/Forno           Street Trade         Plant
3 (1980)                132                    47                    29-1/              56
4                       142                    47                   20                  75
5                      158                    47                    20                  60
6                      170                     50                   20                 100
7                      190                    50                    20                 120
8                      210                     50                   20                 140
9                      245                     50                   20                 165
10                       265                    50                    20                195
11                       300                    50                    20                230
12     -                 320                    50                    20                 250
13                       365                    50                    20                 295
14                       390                    50                    20                 320
15                       425                    50                    20                 355
16                       449                    50                    20                 379
17                       462                    50                    20                 392
1/ Still includes some sales into Peru.
December 6, 1977



- 116 -
BOLIVIA                                   ANNEX 4
Table 5
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Collection and Storage
Incremental Costs
($b)
Foreign Exchange
No. of Units   Unit Cost   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3 on            US$           %       US$
Collection Network
Investment Costs
Land and buildings                       2
One main post                   150  2              500         -      75,000         -           3,750         30       1,125
Four secondary posts            400 m               500         -     200,000         -          10,000         30       3,000
Vehicles
Five-ton trucks                   3            300,000          -     900,000         -          45,000         95      42,750
Four-wheel drive vehicles         2            160,000          -     320,000         -          16,000         95      15,200
Furniture and office equipment    22                28,023(per    -      616,500         -          30,825          60     18,495
trading post)
Total investment                                          -   2,111,500          -         105,575         76      80,570
Physical contingencies (10%)                                         -     211,150         -          10,557          76      8,024
Incremental Operating Costs
Rent (new facilities for
existing posts)
Main posts                      4              1,500         -        3,000       6,000           -            -         -
8econdary posts                13                800         -        5,200      10,400           -            -         -
Salaries                                       (per man years)
Agent                           1             40,040         -       20,020      40,040           -            -         -
Sub-agents                      4             32,200         -       64,400    128,800            -            -         -
Drivers                         1             35,000                 17,500      35,000           -            -         -
Vehicle operating costs                                            -      55,000    110,000             -           15        _
Office supplies                                                    -       7,000      14,000            -           50        -
Total incremental
operating costs                                        -     172,120    344,240
Warehouse
Investment Costs                           2
Land                             1 800 m2              200         -     360,000          -          18,000          -         -
Building                         1,800 m               700         -   1,260,000          -          63,000        40      25,200
Vehicle
Five-ton truck                    1            300,000         -      300,000         -           15,000        95      14,250
Pick-up truck                     1            160,000         -      160,000         -            8,000        95       7,600,
Machinery
Hrydraulic wool piesses           3             70,000         -      210,000         -           10,500        95       9,975
Fork-lift trucks                  2            120,000         -      240,000         -           12,000        95      11,400
Furniture and equipment  1/                        98,000          -      98,000         -            4,900        60       2,940
Total investment costs                                    -   2,628,000          -          131,400        54     71,365
Physical contingencies (10%)                                         -     262,800          -          13,140        54       7,096
Operating Costs
Salaries                                       per man year
Manager                           1             88,000         -       44,000      88,000           -            -         -
Warehouse supervisors             2             74,900          -      74,900    149,800            -            -         -
Bookkeeper                        1             59,920         -       29,960      59,920           -            -         -
Clerk                             1             44,940         -       22,470      44,940           -            -         -
Guards                            2             29,960         -       29,960      59,920           -            -         -
Laborers                          6             28,000         -       84,000    168,000            -            -         -
Typist                            1             37,460         -       18,730      37,460           -            _         _
Drivers                           2             35,000         -       35,000      70,000           -            -         -
Sub-total                                               -     339,020    678,040             -            -        -
Vehicles operating costs                                           -      30,000      60,000           -           15         -
Office supplies                                                    -      10,000      20,000           -           50         -
Total operating costs                                     -     379,020    758,040
Including safe box.
June 2, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Collection and Storage - Project Costs
Total           Total
Costs           Costs           Foreign Exchange
(b.'000)         (US$)           (%)           US$
(Year 2)
I. Collection Network
Investment costs                                    2,112        105,575          76         80,570
Incremental operating costs"/                          172         8,606           6            537
II. Warehouse
Investment costs.                                  2,628         131,400          54         71,365
Operating costs-                                      379         18,951           3            475                   H
Total Baseline Cost                                      5,291        264,532          58        152,947
Physical Contingencies (10% of investment costs)           474         23,697          64         15,120
Total Cost                                               5,765        288,229          58        168,067
1/ Incremental operating costs incurred during the last six months of year 2, in order to
gather and store increased quantities of raw material prior to the plant start-up.
CO 



118  -
BOLIVIA                    ANNEX 4
Table 7
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Processing Plant
Equipment
Unit            Total         Total
Description                      No. of Units      Price           Cost          Cost
--- ---- US$ ---------         ($b)
Opener-teaser                                1          18,000         18,000        360,000
5-bowl scouring train with
dryer and hopper                          1          600,000        600,000    12,000,000
Blender mixed with emulsifier                1          36,000         36,000        720,000
Carding set with hopper feeder               1         138,000        138,000      2,760,000
Intersecting draw frames                    2           21,600         43,200        864,000
Rectilinear combers                          4          24,000         96,000      1,920,000
Blender intersecting                         1          24,000         24,000        480,000
Intersecting with auto-leveller             2           33,000         66,000      1,320,000
Roving frame (84 spindles)                   1          53,900         53,900      1,078,000
Ring spinning frames (384 spindles
each)                                     5           72,000        360,000      7,200,000
Yarn vaporizing unit                         1           12,000         12,000       240,000
2-for-1 twisted (144 spindles)               1          60,480         60,480      1,209,600
Automatic cone winder (40 spindles)          1          96,000         96,000      1,920,000
Yarn doubler (20 spindles)                   1           12,000         12,000       240,000
Ball winder (16 spindles)                    1          17,600         17,600        352,000
Bale press                                   1           6,000          6,000        120,000
Testing equipment (sliver wrap,
precision balance.  Uster re-
gularity tester, count balance,
twist tester, airconditioning,
yarn dinamometer, humidity tester,
rapid grease extracting appara-
tus)                                                                 60,000      1,200,000
Boiler                                       1          30,000         30,000        600,000
Humidifying equipment                        3          28,330         85,000      1,700,000
Electrical, water and stream instal-
lation                                                               40,000        800,000
Material handling equipment (hand
trucks, boxes, cans)                                                  7,500        150,000
Truck                                        1                         18,000        360,000
Fork lift truck (battery operated)           1                           6,000        120,000
Weighing scales                              4                           3,600         72,000
Pick-up van                                  1                         10,000        200,000
Spare parts and accessories (8%)                                      151,900      3,038,800
Freight, insurance and erection
cost (20%)                                                          410,200      8,204,400
Total Equipment Cost                                                2,461,400    49,228,000
June 6, 1977



ANNEX 4
- 119 -                               Table 8
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Processing Plant
Direct and Indirect Labor and Annual Cost
Yearly
Job Classification                   No. of Workers          Wage               Cost
US$       (US$)          ($b)
Shift foremen                                2                2,880        5,760       115,200
Sorting supervisor                           1 (1 shift)    1,800          1,800        36,000
Wool sorters                                42 (1 shift)      1,080       45,360       907,200
Scouring operators                           2 (1 shift)    1,440          2,880        57,600
Opener operators                             2 (1 shift)    1,080          2,160        43,200
Opener helpers                               2 (1 shift)        940        1,880        37,600
Blender operator                              1 (1 shift)    1,080         1,080        21,600
Draw frame tenders                            2               1,080        2,160        43,200
Combing tenders                               2               1,440        2,880        57,600
Auto-leveller tenders                         2               1,080        2,160        43,200
Roving frame tenders                          2               1,080        2,160        43,200
Spinners                                     6                1,080        6,480       129,600
Doffers                                       2               1,080        2,160        43,200
Yarn vaporizing operators                     2 (1 shift)    1,080         2,160        43,200
Winder tenders                                2               1,080        2,160        43,200
Dou-bler tenders                              2               1,080        2,160        43,200
Twister tenders                              4                1,080        4,320        86,400
Bal.l winder tenders                         2                1,080        2,160        43,200
Transport helpers                            2                  940        1,880        37,600
Floor sweepers                               4                  940        3,760        75,200
Yarn packers                                 2 (1 shift)    1,080          2,160        43,200
Bale press operators                          2 (1 shift)    1,080         2,160        43,200
Boiler man                                    1 (1 shift)    1,800         1,800        36,000
Fork lift driver                              1               2,100        2,100        42,000
Truck driver                                  1               2,100        2,100        42,000
Truck driver helpers                         2                1,800        3,600        72,000
Fa,Ller, card pin repairman                  1                2,100        2,100        42,000
Maintenance mechanics                         4               2,100        8,400       168,000
Electricians                                 2                2,100        4,200        84,000
We:Lder                                       1               2,100        2,100        42,000
Raw material warehouse                        2               1,800        3,600        72,000
Spare parts store attendant                   1               1,800        1,800        36,000
Shipping room clerks                         2                1,800        3,600        72,000
Gate guards                                  3                2,100        6,300       126,000
Total - Without Social Charges             111                           143,54,)   2,870,800
Total - With Social Charges  (131%)                                      331,577    6,631,540
June 6, 1977



120 
ANNEX 4
Table 9
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical and Administrative Personnel and Cost
Annual Salary          Total Annual Cost
Job Classification                  No.        (US$)                 (US$)       ($b)
Plant manager                        1           14,000             14,000    280,000
Textile engineer                     1            8,300              8,300    166,000
Sales manager                        1           10,300             10,300    206,000
Office manager/accountant            1            7,000              7,000    140,000
Salesmen                             2            7,000             14,000    280,000
Purchasing agent                     1            5,700              5,700    114,000
Accounting clerk                     1            4,300              4,300      86,000
Office clerk                         1            4,300              4,300      86,000
Secretary                            1            4,300              4,300      86,000
Typist                               1            2,800              2,800      56,000
Nurse                                1            2,800              2,800      56,000
Office boy                           1            1,000              1,000      20,000
Laboratory testers                   2            3,400              6,800    136,000
Janitor                              1              750                 750     15,000
Total - without social charges  16                                86,350  1,727,000
Total - with social charges
(73% of base salary)                                           149,385  2,987,710
Based on the foregoing tables, the annual cost of direct/indirect labor and
technical administrative personnel is summarized as follows:
Direct/indirect                    111 workers                     331,577  6,631,540
Technical and administrative        16 employees                   149,385  2.987.700
Total labor cost/year         127                              480,962  9,619,240
June 6, 1977



_  121  _                              ANNEX 4
Table 10
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Processing Plant
Investment Costs
Project  Year         Total         Total
($b'000)             Cost          Cost         Foreign Exchange
1          2        ($b'000)        US$             %         -US$
1. Land purchase         1,500          -          1,500       75,000          -           -
2. Building (includ-
ing engineering
costs)                -          6,800        6,800      340,000          32       110,250
3. Machinery and
equipment (in-
cluding erection
costs)              9,846       39,382       49,228   2,461,400          95      2,338,300
4. Office equip-
ment and furni-
ture                  -            700          700       35,000         55         19,250
5. Labor and person-
nel expenses
prior to plant
start-up                           855          855       42,760         -            -
6. Training and
technical
assistance
i) Plant ope-
rators train-
ing program       -          2,200        2,200      110,000        100        110,000
ii) Training of
sorters           -            180          180        9,000        100          9,000
iii) Outside train-
ing of key
personnel         -            444          444       22,200        100         22,200
Sub-total         -          2,824        2,824      141,200        100        141,200
Costs                  11,346       50,561       61,907   3,095,360           84     2,609,000
Physical contin-
gencies (10%)           1,135        5,056        6,191      309,536          84        260,900
Total investment
Costs                   12,481       55,617       68,098   3,404,096          84      2,869,900
June 6, 1977



bOLIVIA
YLJA TIkLA DEVELOPSMNT PROJECT
Collection. Storage and Processing of Rgn Material
Income statetent
($6 '000)
Unit                                                                                                         With Pcoijet
Price   ---_----Without Projeet----          ----------------------------------__------------------------ Y-   ----------------------------------------------------------------------- _______              ---_____
Lnit      ($b)    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3-20             8         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11         12        13        14        15        16       17-20
IntenR
Sales fron the Pro-.a.iRg Plaot
Scoaccd sheep -ool (elean bkner)                kg        58           -                               -         -      39,160   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200   52,200
Alpaca yarn                                     kg       340      6,250   6,250        -             7,000    7,750   10,880   14,620   15,640   19,380   23,120   27,200   31,960   37,740   44,540   48,280   57,120   61,880   68,880    73,780   75,480
Lig.a Yarc                                      kg       2200                 -                        -         -       9,600   01,000   11,000   11,000   11,440   11,440   11,440   11,880   11,880   12,320   12,320   12,760   12,760    12,9805  03,2008
She-p .n..  yarn                                kg       140                           -310,220   11,900   81,480   10,500    9,800    94100    8,400    7,700    7 000    6 300    5 600    4 900    3,580                                                  2808      2,818
Accylic yaco                                    kg       120         -         -       -               -         -      13,320    14,640    14,640   14.160   13.200    12,360   11,280    9,600    7,800    4,440             4,320    3,000    1,800         -         -
Sob-total                                         6,250   6,250         -            7,000    7,750   83,260  104,360   104,960  107,240  109,760  112,300  115,280  119,120  123,420  123,540  131,560  134,740  139,140  141,760  143,698
Waste rcnperocloo: 1/
of alpacl proenslng                           kg        10         -       -         -               -         -          40         50        60        70        s0        100       11i       140       160       170       210       220       250       290        290
of llama fiber pro- easing                    kg         5         -       -          -              -         -           40        50        50        50        50         50        50        50        50        55        55         55        55        55        60
of sheep wool procenasig                      kg         3         -       -          -              -         -           27        30        27        27        24         24        21        18        18        15        15        12          9         3         -
Sb-otal                                                                                                     107       130       137       147        154       174       182       208       228        240       280       287       314       348       350
Total sgles proc--uiog plant                               6,250   6,250         -            7,000    7,750   03,367   104,490  105,097  107.387  109.914  112,474  115,462  119,328  123,648  123,780  131,840  135,027  139,454  142,108  144,048
Sale, fIro the Collection Net-ork
(greRsy batin)
Alpaca fiber  2/                                kg         21     1,000   1,000   4,600              1,000     1,000      1,675     1,684    1,693      1,702     1,711    1,720    1,729        1,738     1,747     1,756     1,765     1,774      1,783     1,792     1,800
Clone fiber                                     kg       45 3/   2,475   2,475   2,475               2,475     2,475                                   -          -              -              -              -          -         -                   -         -         -
Sh-p -ool                                       kg       26       4.940   4,940   4.940              4.940    4,940           -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -                   _         _ -
Tetel salet colleation network                             0,415   8,415  12.015              0,415    0,405       1,675     1.684     1.693     1,702     1.711      1,720     1,729     1,738    1,747      1,756    1,765       1.774     1.783     1,792     1,800
InentyrY Adluatmea-t                                                   -       -         -               -      9.637      5,504       309      1209)      099        268       375       491       544       344        730       441       679       743
Total income                                 14,665  14,665  12,015             15,415   25,002   90.546  106,483  106.501   109,688   111.893   114,569  117,682  121,610  125,739  226,266  134,046  13P,080  141,9180143,900  145,848
1/   7%. of co alpgca and ISNR Other spun and 55. at sPun sheep wool.
w/ itroc and  tikh project yearn I and 2, glpoct  fiber sold 1-celly or enported td $b 100 per htil.  WitS, project ypar 3 onnards, 25 taos
collected for acd told to FOTRAMA/FORNO at cost (9b 67 to 72 per kilo, according to the color  it).
3/  Etport price.
Natn.  Total -alioc ti-a of aLpaca fiber in pre-entply a- abo-t 45 coos af alpaca pot yp-r, af which 35 oct pronessed into  -ar,,u (25 coos)                                                                                                                                      r 
e b.  the '-n.Yp  plant.  Thc Palocapo plant in e-pecred to clout at tilc ed of pear 2, hoth nith and withoct tho project,  Witoct
project, icin astantd chat, bkyood year 2, thie existLng coillec-on ne-ork would continue to giahcr aboat 45 cons of aIpeca per
Ypor, 55 coot af leau fiber, mostly for cxport, end ahoar 190 cons tf abtep anal to bc sold tothe local induotry.  At p...e.t,                                                                                                                                            ..
alpaca yarn i   old at a nubnidieed price of 000S2.50  per kilo snd thc plant in op.rcaing at a  lots.  It heu beenioscd  .t,t
aith Pr-ject, the pcice  ill bs  raised to US$14 in pear 1 and USS15.5 in yper 2 to teach an auohubidi-ed I-el of US$17 ohen tih
nsw plant starts opsrating.
Dscohber 6, 19i7



BOLIVIA
lI'LA" ULLA DEVELOP9l7NT ~PR03447
Clcio,Storage and Process io  of Ra- Material
Intone SLtatoset
($b '000)
With Project
-----wthout Project----..............................
Yenrl    Oear2    Tenrl-on  1  2  3     1,         5          4          -7         0         ~    ~ ~~~          ~~~ ~~~~9 EO  -1i  12  13         14        1L5       1L6     17-20
Collection Net-ork
Selectee it                                                  740        740         740            740       842        783        703       783        783        783        783        783        783       783        783        783        783        783       783        783
Recta                                                         16         16          10             16         24        33         33         33         33        33         33         33         33         33         33        33         33         33         33         33
V.hitles  oPerating and  -ialteno-ec-ta                       4f         40          40             40        85        150        130        150       130        130        150        110        100       150        150        150        150        150       150        1Sf
Offire  eoppltes                                              30         30          30             38         37        44         44         44         44        44         44         44         44         44        44         44         44         44         44        44
Seprecfatian S2/                                          -          - 1                        -          -       320        32        32         32        _32         320 --320            -320       320        320        2580       250        25a       258        200
Sob-tOp.tl                                82          2          86            86         88        .3       1,330      1,330      1,330      1,330      1,330     1,330      1,330      1,330      1,330      1,260     1,260      1,260      1,260      1,268
P)c  p..ceeced by the plett
sheeP cool  forY. OOoor -f nly-                                          -                   -          -   33,750       300      4,0         200 45,000   45,000   48,0                 200       4,0         1004,000   45.000    45,000   45.000   45,000 
Cheep cool  for yarn productIon  -     -           -              -          -    ~~~~~~ ~~~4,330  3,000.  4,730   4,300     4173        3,73      365         ,270      2.875      2.675      2,375     2,075      1,000        250-
a1pana fiber                                       2,317      2,317            -        2.317      2,317      3,707      4,965    3,296       6,700      8,064      8,436    13,187    13,289    15,770    17,250    20,473   22,336    25,623   29,288    29,020
11eno ftieb--                                                      -            -                       -    4.880       5.600     5.600      2.600      5,000      3.000      5.000      6.000      6.000     6.200      6.200      6.400      6.400     6.600      6.6800
Sob-totL1                             2,317      2.317            -        2.317      2,317   46,687    60,063    61,000    60,646    63,038    64,111   65,612    67,274    69,753    71,125    74,046    75.011    78,523    81,249   01,300
if) edi-rneo   In f-rator-n --                                                                    -    9,743       3.15,04      308        2089)      599       260        370        481        244        344        730       441        679        743          -          -
Sub-total  (i end ii)                 2,317      2,317            -        2,317    13,060    52,181    60,874    61.311    61,245    63,307    64,406    66,103    60,110    70,087    71,055    74,407    76,490    79,266    81,149   81,100
Ric  naerolcllected fot other porpo-
Sheep ..ool                                            4,750      4,730       4,750         4,756      4,750           -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -                     ---
Alpac-ILber                                              663        663       2,800            663        663     1.655      1,663      1,672     1,680      1.689      1,687      1,706      1,714      1,723     1,731      1,740      1.348    1,737        1.766     1.775
Llm iEr,                                           2.240      2.240       2,240          2.240      2.240                     -          -          -         -          -          -          --------
Sob-total                             7,653      7,653       9.970         7,653      7,653      1,655      1.663     1.672      1.680      1,689      1.697      1.706      1.714      1.723     1.731      1.740      1.748      1.757      1,766_  1.775
Ttot1 t-1leotion ont-ok                        10.796   10.796       10.796         10,796   20.711    55,176   63,867   64,313   64.255    66.326    67.313    69.139    71.162    73.150    74.916   77.495    79.506    82.291    84,183   84.543
Wagna ed salarie                                                -          -           -             -       339        670        670        670        670        670       670        670        670        670        678        678       678        670        678        678
Vehicle o:.Pera.ting and ma.te etooc. ...r t                              -           -                       30         60         60         60         60        60         60         60         60         60         60        60         60         60         00         60
Depreciatti    2/                                              -          -           --                        -       210        210       010        210        210        210        210        210        200       210        135        155        155        135        125
-  -       -             -        ~~~        ~~~        ~~10  20  20  20      20         20         20         20        20         20         20         20         20        20         20         20
Tot.1 wa-hoa ...-                                                                                379        980        968        868       968        968        968        968        968        968       868        913        813        913        9-13       913
Proc..esing Plant
Raw ma.teial  - agryltt  fiber.-                                          -                                     -    4,620      5,040      5.840      4,000      4,520      4.240      3,080      3,280      2.680     1,520      1,400      1.040        640          -          -
Labor    _ng_                                              1,430     1,450             -        1,450      1,450     6,632      6,632      6.632    4,632        6,632      6.632      6,632      6.632      6.632     6.632      6,632      6.632      6,632      6.632      6,632
salarica               ,          ,                                             ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~2,900  2,900  2,30 3988  2 ,808  2 ,888  2  ,980      2,888  2    ,900      2,988  2   .980      2,908  2    ,988  2    ,988  2    ,8882:M
oth-rcss    caias   deeregets                                                                                           380        440        440        440       440        440        440        440        440       440        440        440        440        440        440
electricity                                 250        250            -           250       250        840        960        960        960       960        860        960        960        860        860       960        960        960        960        960
eater                                                                                                   80        100        100        100        100       100        100        100        100        100        100       100        100        100        100
other                                     7,263 5/ 2.263  5/         -         2,263  ~ 2.263 v/ 1,000          1,160     1160       1,100      1,100      1,060      1.160      1.160      1,160     1,160      1.160      1,160      1,160      1,160      1,160
M.ct-tenog  4 repairs                                          -          -           -                               1,000L 1,00               0     1,000 10  0     1,00   .080      1,000      1.080      1,000     1,080      1,080      1,080      1,080      1,080     1.080
SeIpr_ciatioc 2/                                                         -           - -    -                       5,4000    5,4800    5,04 00      5,400      5,400     5,400      5,400      5,400      5.400      5,400        675        675        675        635       675
indIrect ra-a 6/-                                                         -           --                       -     2,335      2.669      2.614      2.643      2.585      2.495      2.419      2,284     2.179      2.013      1,939      1,871      1.820      1.860    1.850
Total ptaonn-tng plant                           3.963      3,963           -         3,963      3.963   25.335   26.469   26.414    26.283   25.865    25,495    25,059    24.334    23.619    22.293    17.454    16.946    16.495   15.895   15.893
Total opegating cota                            14.759    14.759      10.796         14.759   25.043    81.499   91.304    91.895   01.506    93.159   93.976    9516                  9,44       7.3        80P        586       9765        9,91099            1139
Sat Intone                                                       -94        -94      1.219            656        739     9.047   15.179   14,606    18,182   1974              053    22,516    25.146    28,002   28,089   38.184   40.115   42.201  _412909_4  48
I/  wit'hoot the project and, oitb tbc project, yea   I and 2: i-cloding alr                    of floeno -tare cperting in iS Alto..
2/ 2o, on veh ialna, 10% on machinery and eqeip-et, ST .. boildgogo.
3/P-echaing pri...a: alp-c   = lb 66,2 per bile wiehoot proignt, and, with projcci, frog $b 66.2 per kilo o- year
1, 2 end 3 (25% ahite fiber 9 $6 90 pet kilo and 75% colored fiber 0 $b 58 pcr kilo) te $4 71 by year 17
(407 white, 60% colord).
4/  15 tone of alpaca fibec, 25 t-e  ef llam   fib-  and 310 to-e of  heep  -aol
5/  Includes  oerheads, tra...por tattoo cata  iron Pclac.ya ta to Poe, dep-ri.tioo acd Indiret ta-c, and                                                                                                                                                                                    u.
-eit --tnar  and repair-,
6/  15% sal.. tan  -0cylic  y-rn, 2% aalnsia  on .  o1paca and 1lan. yan.t.,0
D .t.nhb- 6, 1977



BOLIVLA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Processing, Collection. Storage
Financial Rate of Return
($b '000)
1               2               3              4             5             6            7                8
Total                                                         Total                      Net              Net
Operating                                     Investment        Costs        Total       Benefit        Incremental
Year           Costs        Depreciation       (1 - 2)         Costs        (3 + 4)    Benefits       (6 - 5)          Benefit
Without Project               1              14,759              *            14,759             -          14,759      14,665           -94                _
2              14,759             *             14,759            -          14,759      14,665           -94                _
3-20           10,796             *             10,796            -          10,796      12,015         1,219                -
With Project                  1              14,759              *            14,759       12,481           27,240      15,415       -11,825         -11,731
2              25,043             *            25,043        60,831          85,874      25,802       -60,072         -59,978
3              81,499          5,930            75,569            -          75,569      90,546        14,977           13,303
4              91,304          5,930            85,374            -          85,374    106,483         21,109           19,890
5              91,895          5,930            85,965            -          85,965    106,501         20,536           19,317
6              91,506          5,930            85,576            -          85,576    109,688         24,112           22,893
7              93,159          5,930            87,229        2,360          89,589    111,893         22,304           21,085
8              93,976          5,930            88,046            -          88,046    114,569         26,523           25,304
9              95,166          5,930            89,236            -          89,236    117,682         28,446           27,227
10              96,464          5,930            90,534            -          90,534    121,610         31,076           29,857
11              97,736          5,930            91,807            -          91,807    125,739         33,932           32,713
12              98,177          5,930            92,247        3,710          95,957    126,266         30,309           29,090
13              95,862          1,088            94,774            -          94,774    134,046         39,272           38,053
14              97,365          1,088            96,277            -          96,277    137,480         41,203           39,984
15              99,699          1,088            98,611            -          98,611    141,980         43,369           42,150
16             100,991          1,088            99,903            -          99,903    143,900         43,997          42,778
17-19          101,349          1,088           100,261            -         100,261    145,848         45,587           44,368
20             101,349          1,088           100,261            -         100,261    172,408 1/    72,147             70,928
Financial Rate of Return   29%
*   negligible
M 4
1/ Including residual value:
Land                            $b 1,500,000
Buildings (15%)                       680,000
Machinery & equipment (8%)          4,000,000
Raw materials - inventory         20,380,000
Total                          $b 26,560,000
December 6, 1977



SQL [V IA
,LLA  LLL  OEPJP3IEOT P0R0JECC
CoLLectioo, Storage and Processing of Raw Matecrial
Cash PFsow feelectiose
(lb '505)
Slit Project
Year 1-2    Year 3    Year 4-20           5           2          3           4          5           i           7                      9 7       10          11         12          13          14         15          16    17-20
Cash Inflow
PJla-ayo Plsnt Seloago Valon                           -      3,OO                                              3,000              -           -           -          -                 -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -         -
Sales
from the precessing plane                       6,250           -          -           7,000       7,750    83,367   104,480    105,)97    107,387    109,914    112,474    115,062   119,328   123,648   123,780    131,840    135,027    139,454    142,108  144,048
from tin collecttion  etecrk                    8,415     12.015       12.015          8,415       8.415      1,675 _         1.684   1,693      1,702       1,711      1.720       1,729      1,738       1,747       1,756      1.765       1,774      1.783       1.792      1,800
Sob-tocal                     14,665     15,015       12,015         15,415      16,165     88,940    106,174    106,790   109,089    111,625    114,194    117,191    121,066    125,395   125,536    133,605    136,801    141,237    143,900  145,848
tong-term Loan
Proones.ig PlacIt
far i__o_tmeot                                    -           -            -        12,481    55,617          -           -           -                -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -                -         -
Colleitten Netoork
torlotostotot i  . .  .                                                                          2,323
for  -etlletc  of raosetls                        -           -                                 9,743      20,257         -           -          -                      ---------
for ie---tal ope..tiog -ost (6  os.)              -                                                172    2D-257
S torago
forgeveetmeo-                                                                                    2,891        -
for eperstiog Pots (6 mos.)                       -           _                        _           379
Sob-total                                                            12
Total caoh  ioflow                  14.665      15.015      12,015         27,896      87,290   108.299    106,174   106,790   109,089    111,625    114.194    117,191    121,066   125,395    125,536   133,605    136,801    141,237    143,900    145,848
Cash Outflow
loves tonot  tm(i-ldig pbyei-al
cootiogeeotes9                                                                                                                                           1/                                                        2/
plant                                                _           _           -        12,481      55,617           -           -           -          -      2,360) -         -          -           -          -      3,710 -          -          -             -5-
rollottioc                                           -           -           -              -      2,323 -2                                                       -
stora8e                                              -           -           -              -      2,891            -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -2-
opematino  Costs                                 14.759      10.796       10.796         14.759    25.043       81.499     91,304    91.895        91,506     93.159      93.976      95,166     96.464      97.736      98,177     95.862      97,365    99.699   100,991    101.349
Total ca-1b -otfloe                  14,759     ID.796       10,796         27.240      85.874     81.499      91.304     91.895      91.506      95.519     93.976      95.166     96.464      97.736   101,887       95.862      97.365      99,699    100.991   101.349
Cath Bailace beform Debt Service                       -94      4,219        1.219             656      1,416     26.800    14,870       14,895      17.583      16,106     20,218      22,025      24,602     27,659      23.649      37.743     39,436      41,538    42,909    44_499
Debr Service
Omortloeioe                                            _ -         -            -              -          -           -          -           -      2,000       2,000      4,000       5,000      10,DOD     12,000      12,000     18,000      20,000      18,863           -           -
oerenest 125. p.a.                                     _          _            _              -           -    13,208      13,298      13,208     13,208      12,968      12.728     12,248      11,648      ID.448      9,008       7.568       5,408       3,908 -30
Total    bebseroict        -      -                                -      -                   -    13.208      13,208     13.208      15.208      14,96 B 16,728         17,248    21,648       22.448      21,008     25.568    25.408        21,871           -
Cash b1ao...  after debt o-r-iro                        -94      4.219        1.219             656      1.416     13.592       1.662       i,687      2,375       1,138       3.490      4,777       2,954       5.211      2,641      12.175    14,028        19,667    42,909       44499
Tao no profit (2O2.)                                      -        844          844            131        283       2,718        332         337         475        228         698         955        591       1,042         528      2,435       2,806       3,933     9,494       9,968
tacIt balance  after debt service aod ten              -94      3,375           375            525      1,135     10,674       1,330       1,350      1,900         910       2,79       5,92        2,363      4,169       2,113       9,740     11,222       15,734    33,415      34,939
1/  Replacemeni  of v-hLio.s ($b 2.36 million).
2/ Rep lacoont of vehicles, pltr to etieg nquopamo-t (Sb 1.2 millen) sod oarmial heodlieg equipm-nt SOb 150,000).
Tlornb-r 6. 1977



ANNEX 4
Chart 1
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PRODUCTION FLOW FOR THE PLANT
WOOL         WOOL         ALPACA        LLAMA       ACRYLIC
FOR SALE       YARN         YARN          YARN         YARN
STORAGE
SORTING
OPENING
SCOURING/DRYING
BLENDING
CARDING
PRE-COMB DRAWING
COMBING                              0
.       '          *,,~*        *+
POST-COMB DRAWING
ROVING
SPINNING
VAPORIZING
WINDING
DOUBLING
TWVISTING
BALLWINDING
PACKING
World Bank-1 7639



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCESSING, COLLECTION & STORAGE COMPONENT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR                                                     1978                                                       1979                                                       1980
MONTH                            J   F IMIA   M    J   J            A    S   0   N    D   J    FI M    A   M    J    .1i   A IS   0   N   D    1   F   M    A   M    J   J               A    S   0    N   D
ELAPSED MONTHS                         1   2   3    4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  13   14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36
1. PROCE=SSING:
*Consult machine makers for bids
* Receive price quotations
*Analyze bids & select equipment
Order equipment
Prepare plant layout
Select & buy land site
Obtain bids for land preparation
Consult eng/conistruction firms
Obtain bids for building construction
Land preparation
Building construction                                                                                        -                   -        -        
Hire managerial/technical personnel
Orientate personnel on project
Train personnel - courses, modern mills abroad-                                                                                       -    -        -
Hire supervisors/maintenancn personnel
Erect machinery/assemble plant equipment
Hire labor for 1st shift
* Set up training centre & prepare courses
* Administer training to lst shift oper.
* Prepare quality control program
* Start production -1lst shift-                                                                                                                                                          -- -
Hire labor for 2nd shift
* Administer training to 2nd shift oper.
* Start production - 2nd shift
* Establish processing data & standards
* Set production standards/job loads
* Develop/implement maint. program
* Develop/implement maste control program
* Prepare labor cost control
II. COLLECTION AND STORAGE
Preparation of specifications
* Proturement procedures                                                      U                     
Building Construction (storage)- - -                                                                                   - - - -
* Purchase of vehicles
* Hiring of staff, renting of                                                                                                                                                                                                            r 
facilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -.c
* indicates consulting technical assistance.
VVorld Bank-17640



- 128 -
ANNEX 5
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
A. Background
Introduction
1.        The Bolivian handicrafts industry, particularly its wool-based com-
ponents, is a vital source of supplementary income and employment for about
200,000 poor rural and urban families. In addition, the industry has generated
about US$4 million in foreign exchange annually since 1975 and there is strong
evidence that production and exports of handicraft items could be expanded even
further. The realization of such expansion plants, however, is contingent on
the successful introduction, on a pilot basis and beginning with the wool-based
industry, of essential improvements which have backward linkages to the produc-
tion of wool, its spinning into yarn, and its pricing and marketing. Improving
the production, processing and marketing aspects of wool production is indispens-
able to the development of a viable wool-based handicrafts industry.
2.        Thus far, Bolivia has realized only a fraction of the possible
benefits usually associated with handicraft trade because of (a) shortages of
alpaca/llama/sheep wool and yarn; (b) lack of credit for purchase of wool,
yarn, tools, machinery and for establishment of workshops; (c) lack of essen-
tial technical assistance programs; (d) inadequate pricing of raw materials and
finished goods at the producer level; (e) deficient promotional and marketing
programs; and (f) weak organizational arrangements. In order to ensure that
adequate measures are taken to alleviate these weaknesses in the wool-based
handicrafts industry, a credit and technical assistance compenent for farmers/
artisans would be included under the proposed project since farmers/artisans
serve as the forward linkage of the project as they are the final users in the
production chain of alpaca/llama wool.
Current Situation
3.        The bulk of Bolivia's small artisans (estimated at about 200,000
families) depend mainly on subsistence farming for their livelihood, and
supplement their basic income from sales of handicrafts. Families have ample
time to engage in handicrafts as the agricultural season is concentrated in a
period of about five months of the year, which leaves them about seven months
for other activities. It is estimated that local artisans produce an assort-
ment of about 400 varieties of typical handicraft items ranging from wood
products and straw boats for use of Lake Titicaca, to garments made of alpaca/
llama/sheep wool. Customarily, women prepare the wool for further processing
and do spinning and knitting, while men do mostly weaving. They knit and
weave sweaters, ruanas decorative bags, colorful hats, ponchos and the like,
all made from alpaca/llama wool. The alpaca wool is famous for its special



- 129 -
ANNEX 5
features. It comes in a variety of natural colors, and it is light in weight
and high in thermal retention. Products made of alpaca/llama wool as well as
from other materials have distinct design patterns, and are quite colorful.
The quality of workmanship, however, varies considerably and, with the
exception of a few major producers, the standards are relatively low by
international comparison. Production is usually on a small scale and timely
delivery of large orders cannot be relied on. The bulk of the country's
handicraft work is done in about 150 family-operated artisan shops and/or
production centers. Most of them are located in the Departments of La Paz and
Cochabamba, although fairly large quantities of items are also made in Oruro,
Potosi, Santa Cruz, Tarija and Sucre. Many of the products made by local
artisans contain some style features, which help to distinguish products made
in one department from those made elsewhere.
4.        Generally, knitting and weaving of garments and other wool-related
handicrafts are done by able family members living in sparsely inhabitated
villages remote from the major urban centers. Frequently, families engaged in
knitting and weaving of alpaca/llama/sheep wool also raise and depend on the
animals for their livelihood. Fleece is used to clothe members of the owner's
family and the surplus is made into handicrafts and/or is bartered for essen-
tial commodities needed to sustain the family throughout the year. It is esti-
mated that a typical artisan family with three of its members engaged in
making alpaca/llama wool-based handicraft items could earn under favorable con-
dictions about US$973 equivalent annually. The single family unit accounts
for the major share of handicraft work done in the villages throughout the
countryside. This form of organizing handicraft production is being modified
through efforts by public and private entities to help the individual artisans
in forming cooperative and loose associations. There are strong indications
that a great deal of progress has already been made in formation of artisans
cooperatives and associations -- about 100 such groups have been set up in the
past three years.
5.        Making alpaca/llama wool-based handicraft items is a long process.
Work usually begins with shearing or purchasing fleece; preparation of the
fleece for spinning, dyeing, weaving or knitting; the actual production work;
and finally selling the end product (either to the visiting intermediaries or
to affiliated commercial firms). The production process is tedious and re-
quires long working hours. Spinning and knitting is often done by hand or
with the help of wooden looms. Dyeing techniques are primitive, and the
coloring chemicals are extracted from vegetable substances that tend to fade
after exposure to the sun. An inventory of the finished products is main-
tained at the artisans' adobe huts until the intermediaries or representatives
of the commercial firms arrive in the village to make purchases. The prices
offered by the purchasing agents for the items, however, are very low compared
to what could be obtained by selling directly in urban centers.
6.        Overall, the role of the private sector in the handicrafts trade
has been positive but limited in scope. A few individuals with limited
capital but with much imagination and drive have taken the initiative and



- 130 -
ANNEX 5
organized a relatively small number of artisans into production cooperatives
to whom they sell wool and yan at subsidized rates in exchange for the
right to purchase their end products. The prices paid to the artisans, how-
ever, are so low that they barely cover the production costs.
Institutional Support
7.        Growth of the industry has been slow but prospects have improved
with the establishment in August 1974 of the National Institute for Small
Industries and Handicrafts (INBOPIA) as a decentralized institute under the
auspices of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, to plan and
promote the development of small industrial enterprises and of the handicrafts
industry in Bolivia. The Minister of Industry or his Undersecretary is the
Chairman of INBOPIA's Board of Directors, which is composed of one represen-
tative each from the Ministries of Education, and of Finance, Planning and
Coordination and one delegate each from the small industry sector and the
small handicrafts association, plus INBOPIA's General Manager.
8.        INBOPIA has three main departments:  (a) Economic and Financial;
(b) Technical; and (c) Administrative. The Economic and Financing Department
has 10 operational Divisions with responsibility for development, promotion,
and technical and financial assistance for small industry and handicrafts;
while the Technical Department is responsible for assistance to small indus-
tries. INBOPIA's budget for 1977 amounts to US$150,000 equivalent and it has
a total staff of 25, of whom 17 are professionals. Since the beginning of
its operations in 1975, INBOPIA has carried out socioeconomic studies on
artisan activities; it has launched a nationwide registration campaign for
all artisans in the country; it has participated in international fairs to
promote export of Bolivian handicrafts; and it has helped to organize nine
artisan cooperatives in the Omasuyos with assistance of the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). INBOPIA's programs for the next five years will
concentrate on strenthening its operation in the small industrial sector and
particularly on increasing its involvement with the handicraft trade.
B. Handicraft Component
Objectives and Content
9.        The proposed credit and technical assistance to help about 3,400
small rural and urban artisan families in the Departments of La Paz and
Cochabamba to increase production and exports of typical handicraft items is
the first comprehensive program ever attempted in this sector in Bolivia. The
component would be developed on a small, pilot scale, being confined to
providing financial and technical assistance for the purchase and production of
articles made of alpaca/llama/sheep wool. Alpaca/llama/sheep wool produced and
processed under the project would be allocated first to supply the needs of the



- 131 -
ANNEX 5
Local artisans and then for export.  Inclusion of financial and technical
assistance for development of handicraft would make it possible to generate
value added from working the wool in Bolivia before it is exported as a
handicraft article; increase employment opportunities; decrease underemploy-
ment (particularly in rural areas); and expand exports.
10.       The handicrafts component would consist of:  (a) a US$2.0 million
lending program to finance the capital rquirements of small rural and urban
artisans working with alpaca/llama/sheep wool; (b) a US$1.0 million technical
assistance program to help INBOPIA organize artisan production and marketing
groups, finance the cost of quality control and standards, promote exports of
Bolivian handicrafts by preparing a national catalogue of handicraft, parti-
cipate in international fairs, monitor radio broadcasting programs, supervise
the training program of the National Manpower Development Service (FOHO) for
the participating artisans, and coordinate with the State Bank (BE) the
implementation of the credit component; and (c) a US$100,000 purchasing
fund to enable INBOPIA to buy and sell on a very modest scale some of the
handicraft articles produced by artisan organizations during the life of
the project. Details of the handicraft component are discussed below.
Lending Program
11.       The lending program for the handicraft component would be managed by
the Artisan Division within BE in close cooperation with INBOPIA. BE was
established in November 1970 as a state development bank, with headquarters
in La Paz, and was given a principal function of assisting the private sector
in development-oriented programs such as industry, mining, housing and agri-
culture. Presently, BE has 35 district offices in rural areas and eight
r'egional offices. BE would on-lend the Bank's funds at 12% for working
capital and would finance investment costs for urban and rural artisans. The
program would give priority to making sub-loans to individuals or groups of
rural artisans although urban artisans and shops involved in the production of
alpaca/llama/sheep wool would also be considered.
12.       The maximum amount any individual artisan would be eligible to borrow
under this program would be US$3,000 equivalent, in order to ensure that a
large number would be able to obtain credit without endangering the technical
and economic viability of each sub-project. Groups of artisans would be
entitled to an amount not in excess of US$100,000 equivalent per group, asso-
ciation or cooperative. Authority to approve sub-loan applications up to
US$5,000 equivalent would rest with each district office, while applications
for between US$5,000 and US$20,000 equivalent would require approval by the
regional offices. Sub-loans above US$20,000 equivalent would be granted by
the headquarters office in La Paz. Priority for lending would be given to
individual or groups of artisans in the Departments of La Paz and Cochabamba.
Sub-loans would be up to six years, including up to one year of grace for the
purchase of raw materials and for the purchase of knitting and working machi-
nery, and for the establishment of small shops for production of items. As
BE recovers the outstanding amounts, it would establish a special revolving



- 132 -
ANNEX 5
fund in the project account (Central Bank) for further on-lending for
handicraft production. Collaterals for capital investment would consist of
the machinery and equipment of the sub-borrower, and for the working capital
it would consist of the raw material and finished goods. The phasing of the
lending program for handicraft development is shown in Table 9.
Technical Assistance
13.       The bulk of the technical assistance program would be directed at
strengthening INBOPIA's handicrafts operations and at enabling it to play a
major role in the coordination and management of the alpaca/llama/sheep
handicrafts component under the proposed project. To help in the implemen-
tation of the handicrafts program, INBOPIA would recruit an international
expert with extensive experience in organization and management to help or-
ganize the staff and the implementation program for a period of 24 months.
The organization expert would assist INBOPIA's Executive Director in preparing
the detailed procedures and train the staff in the Artisan Division to help
the rural artisans to obtain credit from BE; form production and marketing
groups, cooperatives and associations; supervise FOMO's training program for
the artisans; monitor the radio broadcasting programs; and coordinate with
BSB the implementation of the lending operations. In order to avoid creating
a bottleneck in the marketing and handicraft items, INBOPIA would embark on a
modest program to promote and develop international outlets for Bolivian
products. A second internationally recruited expert in handicraft marketing,
organization of fairs, and preparation of a national handicraft catalogue
would be contracted by INBOPIA for 24 months over a period of three years. He
would also be responsible for training the Bolivian marketing specialist who
would be working on a full-time basis within Artisan Division. In addition,
INBOPIA would also recruit short-term international consultants in the fields
of textile engineering and design to assist its staff in developing a program
for quality controls, standards for production of alpaca/llama/sheep wool-
based handicrafts, and for introduction of minimum prices for such items. The
international expert would work closely with the Director of the Economic
and Finance Department of INBOPIA but he would report directly to the Executive
Director of the Institute. INBOPIA would also hire Bolivian staff to work
with the international expert in organizing and implementating the handicrafts
components. Specifically, INBOPIA would reinforce the Artisan Division by
recruiting one full-time marketing specialist, two promoters of artisan
organizations and a part-time textile engineer and one designer.
14.       In order to facilitate formation of artisan groups and to inform
the potential beneficiaries about prices of wool, and finished handicraft
articles; terms and conditions of the credit line at BE; and the training
program managed by the National Manpower Development Service (FOMIO), INBOPIA
would contract the services of a local radio station to prepare broadcasting
programs for the Aymara and Quechua speaking population about the handicraft
program under the project.



- 133 -
ANNEX 5
15.       The component would also finance a training program to be
implemented by FOMO. Although FOMO has some experience in training of arti-
sans, this would be the first comprehensive training program for artisans to
be undertaken in Bolivia, and therefore, the number of courses would be kept
to a minimum and they would be simple and in line with FOMO's capabilities
in this field. It is estimated that FOMO would conduct about 56 courses and
train about 850 artisans over four years. The training program would help
participants to improve techniques of selection of raw materials, washing,
spinning, dyeing, improving and constructing weaving and spinning equipment,
carding, design, and knitting as well as accounting, organization and market-
ing methods. The training courses would be carried out by mobile units which
would be managed by specialists trained for the purpose. Financing would be
available for the establishment of the training program, purchase of equipment
and the mobile units, tools for working with raw materials, and fellowships.
The training program would be managed by a professional who would be assigned
by FOMO for this purpose. He would be incorporated into the Project Unit
established by FOMO to implement the vocational training component financed
by the Bank under the Education and Vocational Training Project. His principal
functions would be to review the content of training courses, schedule courses,
monitor progress of training, resolve outstanding problems, and coordinate
with the Artisan Division of INBOPIA.
Fund to Purchase and Sell Handicrafts
16.       At present the handicraft producers have few alternatives regarding
selling of their finished products. Purchasing of these items is almost
exclusively in the hands of commercial enterprises or the middlemen who often
exploit artisans. INBOPIA has already helped on a very limited scale to form
artisan cooperatives and has purchased and sold some handicraft items and has
purchased and sold some of their output abroad. The purchasing fund would be
established on a small scale (US$100,000) for purchasing and selling activities
of wool-based handicrafts. Such activities would also help INBOPIA to super-
vise and introduce minimum prices in order to maintain competitive prices in
the domestic market and standards of quality control for the products it would
purchase.
Cost Estimates and Operating Results
17.       The total cost of the handicraft component would amount to $b 62.0
million (US$3.1 million), including $b 40.0 million (US$2.0 million) for the
credit program, $b 2.0 million or US$100,000 for establishing a special fund
for purchasing handicraft articles, and $b 20.0 million (US$1.0 million) for
the technical assistance program to INBOPIA and FOMO for the development of
the handicraft industry (Tables 7 and 8). INBOPIA alone would account for
about 80% or US$875,000 of the total funds ($b 3.1 million) for the technical
assistance program.
18.       Investment costs of the single family model (two to three artisans)
and the group model (30 artisans) are shown in Table 1. Earnings and cost



- 134 -
ANNEX 5
estimates appear in Tables 5 and 6 and cash flow projections are shown in
Tables 3 and 4. Annual total net incomes of the single family model and
the group model would reach $b 18,278 (US$914) and $b 123,450 (US$6,173)
under project conditions, respectively. The financial rates of return on
both models are 100%; the high rates of return may be attributed to the
small investments and to the incremental benefits which are generated in a
relatively short period of time.
Implementation
19.       INBOPIA's Economic and Finance Department, working with the Artisan
Division, would have primary responsibility for the implementation of the
handicraft component. For the implementation of the lending program for the
training portion and for radio broadcasting, INBOPIA would enter into ope-
rational agreement with each of the respective entities involved. In order to
ensure that satisfactory progress is maintained on the handicraft component
and to ensure that overall project objectives would be met, INBOPIA would
enter into a separate agreement with the National Institute for Development
of Wool (INFOL) for the implementation of the handicraft component.
Monitoring,
20.       The experimental nature of this component, the complexity involved
in forming artisan groups, provision of technical assistance and the need to
build up the Bank's knowledge in a field in which it still has relatively
little experience would require close project supervision as well as monitoring
by BE, INBOPIA and INFOL. In this connection, BE, in cooperation with INBOPIA,
would submit to the bank and INFOL quarterly and annual reports indicating the
number of sub-loans approved, commitments, disbursements, and cancellations
both by amounts and by geographic regions. The reports would also give a
summary of the purpose of investments for modernization, expansion--machinery,
equipment construction, working capital, and would include an evaluation of
the economic impact of the component on job creation, reduction in under-
employment in the rural areas, value added, and contribution to Bolivia's
efforts to export non-traditional products.
December 8, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 1
- 135 -
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
Investment Costs
($b)
No. of       Unit
Units        Cost         Total
Model 1 1/
Additional hand loom                   1           1,500       1,500
Knitting machine                       1          4,000        4,000
Sub-total                                     5,500
2/
Model 2 -
Knitting machines                     30          4,000      120,000
l/ One family of two to three artisans.
2/  Group of 30 artisans.
June 14, 1977



ANNEX 5
-  136  -                              Table Z
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
Credit to Artisans
Total Lending Program = $b 40,000,000 (US$2 million)
Subloan
Amount        No. of       No. of
$b         Subloans      Families
Model No. 1-One family of 3 artisans          28,570         680           680
Model No. 2_Group of 30 artisans             228,400          90         2,700
Total                          770         3,380
Phasing
----------------Years----------
1        2         3        4         5        Total
1. No. of subloans
To artisan families        150      150       130       130      120        680
To groups                   10       20        20       20        20         90
Total         160      170       150       150      140        770
2. Amounts ($b '000)
To artisan families    4,286    4,286    3,714    3,714    3,428    19,428
To groups               2,284    4,568    4,568    4,568    4,568    20,556
Total      6,570    8,854    8,282    8,282    7,996    39,984
May 19, 1977



137             ~           ANNEX 5
-  137  -              ~~~~Table 3
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
Handicraft Model No. 1 - One Family of 2 to 3 Artisans
Cash Flow Projection
( $b)
With Project
Without  --------------------------Year----------___________________
Cash Inflow          Project    1          2        3        4         5         6          7-10
Sales              120,820  245,560  245,560  245,560  245,560  245,560  245,560  245,560
Loan 1/              -        28,578    -         -         -        -         -         -
Total  inflow      120,820  274,138  245,560  245,560  245,560  245,560  245,560  245,560
Cash Outflow                        -
Investment Costs    -          5,500    -         -         -        -         -         -
Yarn               101,248  238,608  208,607  208,607  208,607  208,607  208,607  208,607
Maintenance and
repairs               100       100      300       300       300       300      300       300
Total outflow      101,348  244,208  208,907  208,907  208,907  208,907  208,907  208,907
Cash Balance after
Debt Service      19,472   29,930   36,653   36,653   36,653   36,653   36,653   36,653
Debt Service 2/
Interest 12% p.a.   -          3,429    3,429    2,889    2,285    1,608         849    -
Principal            -         -        4,499    5,039    5,643    6,320    7,077    -
Total            -        3,429    7,928    7,928    7,928    7,928    7,926    -
CELsh Balance after
Debt Service        19,472   26,501   28,725   28,725   28,725   28,725   28,727   36,653
$b
1/  Loan for:  additional loom                       1,500
knitting machine=                    4,000
incremental yarn requirements  =  23,078
(1.5 months)
Total loan          28,578
2/ Six years maturity, including one year grace.
MEy 17, 1977



ANNEX 5
- 138 -                          Table  4
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
Handicraft Model No. 2 - Group of 30 Artisans
Cash Flow Projection
($b '000)
With Project
Without    ------------------Years-----------------------
Project    1       2       3       4      5       6       7
Cash Inflow
Sales                    369.6   864.0  864.0  864.0  864.0  864.0  864.0  864.0
Loan  1/                   -     228.4    -        -       -      -       -      -
Total           369.6  1092.4  864.0  864.0  864.0  864.0  864.0  864.0
Cash Outflow
Investment cost             -    120.0    -        -      -       -       -      -
Cash  operating cost   181.4   636.3  556.8  556.8  556.8  556.8  556.8  556.8
Total           181.4   756.3  556.8  556.8  556.8  556.8  556.8  556.8
Cash Balance before
Debt,Service             188.2   336.1  307.2  307.2  307.2  307.2  307.2  307.2
Debt Service 2/
Interest                   -       27.4   24.6   20.5   15.9   10.7    4.8    -
tPrincipal                  -       15.3   33.3   37.4   42.0   47.2   53.1    -
Total             -       42.7   57.9   57.9   57.9   57.9   57.9    -
Cash Balance after
Debt Service             188.2   293.4  249.3  249.3  249.3  249.3  249.3  307.2
1/  100% of investment costs ($b 120,000), plus two months incremental
yarn needs ($b 108,410)
2/ Six years maturity, including six months grace.
May 17, 1977



139  -ANNEX  5
Table  5
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
Handicraft Model No. I - One Family of 2 to 3 Artisans
Sales and Operating Costs
($b)
No. of         Unit        Without        With Project
Units          Cost        Project    Year 1   Year 2-10
Sales
Woven garments 1/               350 per year
per artisan      310         108,500    217,000   217,000
Knitted garments 2/
with factory yarn              119 per year    240             -         28,560    28,560
with home spun yarn             56 per year    220           12,320       -          -
Total Sales                                          120,820    245,560   245,560
Operating Costs
Raw materials (alpaca)
hand spun yarn (for
knitting)                    0.6 kg per       180 per
garment          kg            6,048       -         -
factory yarn for knitting    0.45 kg per        340 per
garment          kg             -         18,207    18,207
or weaving      0.8 kg per       340 per
garment          kg           95,200    190,400   190,400
Total raw materials                                  101,248    208,607   208,607
Family labor                   man-days         35           12,250      18,375    18,375
Maintenance of equipment                                         100         100       300
Total Operating Costs                                113,598    227,282   227,282
Net Income                                                        7,222     18,278    18,278
Minus:
Investment costs                                                -          5,500       -
Net benefit                                                    7,222      12,778    18,278
Net incremental benefit                                         -          5,556    11,056
Financial Rate of Return: 100%
Sensitivity:         -
(i) incremental operating cost
+  8%      =      94%
+ 107      -      negative
(ii) incremental sales
-  8%      =      27%
- 10%      =      negative
1/ With factory yarn =
two per day per loom per worker, 25 days per month, seven months per year.
Without project = one loom, one artisan.
With project = two looms, two artisans.
2/ Without project = one hand-knitted garment in four days, eight per month,
seven months per year (one artisan).
With project = one machine-knitted garment in one and a half days (with
hand-made design), 17 per month, seven months per year (one artisan).
June 14, 1977



-  140  -                            ANNEX  5
Table 6
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
Handicraft Model No. 2 - Group of 30 Artisans
Sales and Operating Costs
($ b)
No. of       Unit   Without         With Project
Sales                           Unit     Units         Cost   Project    Year 1    Year 2-10
Knitted garments              l/
with factory yarn                  120 per year    240        -        864,000   864,000
per artisan
with hand spun yarn                 56 per year
per artisan      220   369,600         -          -
Total                                       369,600    864,000   864,000
Operating Costs
Raw material (alpaca)
Pactory spun yarn           kg    0.45 per gar-
ment             340       -        550,800   550,800
Hand spun yarn              kg    0.6 per gar-
ment             180   181,440         -
Family labor              man-days      2/             35   183,750    183,750   183,750
Maintenance and repairs
of knitting machines                                         -          6,000      6,000
Total                                       365,190    740,550   740,550
Net Income                                                       4,410    123,450   123,450
Minus:
Investment                                                     -        120,000        -
Net benefit                                                   4,410       3,450   123,450
Incremental net benefit                                        -            (960)   75,360
Financial Rate of Return = 100%
Sensitivity:
(i) incremental operating costs
+  8%      =    100%
+ 10%       =    100%
+ 25%       =     25%
+ 30%       =    negative
(ii) incremental sales
-  8%      =    100%
- 10%      =    100%
- 15%      =      59%
- 20%      =    negative
1/  Without project:  one hand-knitted in four days, with home spun yarn
-    (eight per month).  With project: one garment in one and a half days,
with factory spun yarn (17 per month).
Handicraft production is assumed to occupy artisans full time during
seven months a year in the Altiplano.
2/ 175 man-days per artisan per year.
June 14, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
FOMO - Total Costs
Unit ---               -Years-----------------Total                      Total  Foreign   Foreign
No. of      Cost         L            2           3          4          Cost         Cost   Exchange  Exchange
Units          ------------------------------$b-----------------------_---------                        US$
I.    Staff
Salaries                                                            323,650    413,170    287,170    287,170   1,311.600    65,555             -
Local travel and per diems                                 -         57,100    103,400        92,600      92,600      345,700    17,285        -         -
Staff training (monitors)                       15          800      12,000         -                                  12,000        600       -         -
Sub-total                                                      392,750    516,570    379,770    379,770   1,668,860    83,443             -         -
II.   Vehicle
4 wheel drive van                                1      250,000    250,000         -            -           -         250,000    12,500        95    11,875
Operation and maintenance                        -         -         25,000      25,000                   25,000      100,000      5,000       36      1,800
Sub-total                                   -         -        275,000      25,000      25,000      25,000      350,000    17,500         78    13,675
III.    Teaching Equipment
Washing and drying equipment                    10        8,000      80,000         -           -           -          80,000      4,000       40      1,600
Spinning machine                                 5        6,000      30,000         -           -           -          30,000      1,500       60        900
Carding machine                                  2       20,000      40,000         -           -           -          40,000      2,000       80      1,600    -
Weaving machine                                 15       10,000    150,000          -           -           -         150,000      7,500       50      3,750
Knitting machine                                 5        5,000    .25,000          -           -           -          25,000      1,250       80      1,000
Tools                                            -          -        10,000         -           -           -          10,000         500      50        250
Raw materials (56 courses)                       -         -        120000    226700    226,700   226,700             800,000    40,005        -         -
Sub-total                                  -         -       455,000    226,700    226,700   226,700    1,135,100    56,755              16      9,100
IV.    Fellowship for trainees (260)                       -          600      23,400      44,200      44,200    44,200        156,000       7 800       -         -
V.    Maintenance of teaching equipment                   -         -         10,000      10,000      10,000    10,000          40,000      2,000       50      1,000
VI.    Miscellaneous supplies                              -         -         10,000      10,000      10,000    10,000          40,000      2,000       50      1,000
Total baseline cost                              -         -      1,166,150    832,470    695,670   695,670    3,389,960   169,498              15    24,775
Physical contingencies (10% of vehicle
and teaching equipment)                        -         -         70500       ,22.670     22,670    22,670         138,510      6,925       30      2,097
Total                                                      1,236,650    855,140    718,340   718,340    3,528,470   176,423              15    26,872
{D >C
nan



BOLIVIA
ULLA UjLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Handicraft Component
INBOPIA - Total Costs
Foreign     Foreign
No. of        Unit      -----------------  -----Years-----------------                     Total      Total Cost   Exchange   Exchange
Units         Cost         1            2            3          4            5             Cost          US$            7           US$
National Staff                                                                                                         $b
Salaries (man-year)
Textile engineer                                       5        140,000       140,000      140,000     140,000   140,000        140,000         700,000       35,000          -            -
Designer                                               5        140,000       140,000      140,000     140,000   140,000        140,000         700,000       35,000
Marketing specialists                                  5                      140,000      140,000     140,000   140,000        140,000         700,000       35,000
Promoters (4)                                         20                       70,000      280,000     280,000   280,000    280,000           1,400,000       70,000
Sub-total                                            700,000    700,000    700,000   700,000           700,000      3,500,000       175,000
Local travel and per diem                                           200,000       200,000     200,000      200,000    200,000      200,000       1,000,000       50,000
Vehicles and Equipment
4-wheel drive vehicles                                     2        160,000       320,000        -            -          -            -             320,000       16,000          95        15,200
Office equipment                                                                   75,000       -            -           -           -               75,000       3.750          60          2,250
Sub-total                                            395,000        -            -          -            -             395,000       19,750          88        17,450
Technical Assistance
Salaries
Coordinator /advisor (man-years)                        2      1,200,000       600,000  1,200,000    600,000           -           -           2,400,000      120,000         100        120,000
Expert' in marketing and fair
c.ganization (man-year)                              2      1,000,000       500,000  1,000,000       500,000       -            -           2,000,000      100,000         100        100,000
Short  term coasultants (man-month)                     6         100,000         -         200,000      200,000   200,000         -             600,000       30,000         100         30,000
Sub-total                                          1,100,000  2,400,000  1,300,000   200,000             -          5,000,00        250,000         100       250,000
International travel                                                                                                                                                                                    4-
Internationl  experts                                                          80,000       60,000       60,000     40,000        -             240,000       12,000         100         12,000
National staff (study tours)                                                   80,000       80,000       80,000     80,000       80,000         400,000       20,000         100         20,000
Sub-total                                            160,000      140,000     140,000    120,000        80,000         640,000       32,000         100        32,000
Participation  in International Fairs                                                 331,000      502,000      502,000   502,000       502,000       2,339,000      116,950           98       114,611
Number of fairs                                           18                         (2)         (4)          (4)         (4)         (4)
Catalog (national handicraft)                                                         400,000         -           -           -            -             400,000       20,000          55        11,000
Radio Broadcasting (handicraft promotion)                                              480,000    480,000       240,000   240,000        240,000       1,680,000       84,000           -          -
Initial Working Capital
Purchase of handicraft items                                                    2,000,000        -            -          -            -           2,000,000      100,000            -         -
Total  baseline cost                                                     5,766,000  4,422,000  3,082,000 1,962,000  1,722,000             16,954,000      847,700          50        425,061
Physical contingencies (10% of technical
assistance and equipment)                                                149,500    240,000       130,000      20,000        -             539,500       26,975          99         26,745
Total                                              5,915,500  4,662,000  3,212,000 1,982,000  1,722,000             17,493,500      874,675          52       451,806
June 11, 1977



ANNEX 5
-  143  -                    Table 9
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of the Lending Program
1) Number of Subloans
Model No.             Year 3          Year 4        Year 5         Total
1                    100             250           100           450
2                     75             110            75           260
3                      2              14            14            30
4                      -               3             2             5
Total           177             377           191           745
2) Lending Program ($b '000)
---__-------------------------------------------
Model No.             Year 3          Year 4        Year 5         Total
1                   377.6           944.0         377.6       1,699.2
2                 5,457.1         8,003.7       5,457.1      18,917.9
3                   343.1         2,402.0       2,402.0       5,147.1
4                     -           2,537.7       1,691.8       4,229.5
Total        6,177.8        13,887.4       9,928.5      29,993.7
May 19, 1977



- 144 -
ANNEX 6
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Component
Background
1.        The project area is linked to La Paz by primary road No. 2, running
in a northwesterly direction to Pumasani (229 km), and a penetration road
(35 km) that branches off the northwest to Ulla Ulla (Map IBRD 12907).  The
remaining road network (97 km) consists of dirt roads and tracks, which are
usually in poor condition. As far as Pamasani, roads are permanently main-
tained in terms of existing drainage and regraveling. However, beyond Pumasani
to Ulla Ulla and from Ulla Ulla further north, they receive only occasional
maintenance from the National Roads Service (SNC).
2.        There is also an airstrip about 2.5 km from Ulla Ulla.  The airstrip
is on firm ground and is about 1,400 m long and 125 m wide. It has good
approaches and is at an altitude of about 4,300 m. Currently, the airstrip
has no commercial use and is occasionally used by the military.
3.        The existing road network is almost impassable during the rainy
season (January-March) and during the winter months (July and August), and
any increase in the present volume of traffic would completely destroy most
of the existing roads and cause complete interruption of traffic during these
four or five months of the year. This would delay and hinder the construction
of the Project Unit facilities, establishment of health and education facili-
ties and community programs; and impair the flow of goods and services to
and from the project area.
Project Works
4.        The proposed road program would include construction and improvement
of about 54.1 km of all-weather roads in the project area, as follows:
km
Pumasani - La Cabana                      33.0
Access to Acequia                          2.0
Acequia - Ulla Ulla                        3.3
Ulla - airstrip                            2.5
Airstrip - Ichicollo                      11.8
New road to Ucha Ucha                      1.5
54.1



- 145 -
ANNEX 6
5.        The proposed roads would be 4 to 5 m wide and would be constructed
on firm soil, which would require topsoil or peat excavation in variable
depths. The roads would have a 10- to 15-cm gravel surface and a height of
30 to 70 cm above ground level to provide for adequate transversal drainage
(Table 1).
6.        The road program would be completed in 18 months, with priority
given initially to the Pumasani - Ulla Ulla road network and the access
road to Ucha Ucha.
Cost
7.        The total cost of the road component including physical contingen-
cies would be about $b 18.4 million (US$919,000), with a foreign exchange
cost of about $b 6.8 million (US$344,000). The investment cost on equipment
would amount to $b 6.0 million, or US$300,000 (Table 2). The road maintenance
cost during construction would be $b 1.2 million (US$61,800).
8.        The investment cost per km of the new road would be about $b 344,000
(US$17,000). MIaintenance cost per km per year after the proposed road program
is completed would be $b 6,000 (US$300). Details of investment and operating
costs are shown in Table 3.
Implementation
9.        SNC would implement the road program under the direction of the
Agricultural and Social Infrastructure Division (ASI) of the National Insti-
tution for the Development of Wool (INFOL). ASI would advise SNC on the
priorities for road construction and would review the detailed work program
prepared by SNC.
10.       The road construction work would be carried out by force account by
SNC, with 40% of road works completed in year 1 and the remaining in year 2
(Chart 1). SNC would also conduct field investigations, prepare engineering
plans and design and cost estimates, operate equipment financed under the
project, and supply skilled labor to carry out the work program. Annual
maintenance of project roads would be carried out by SNC also by force account
and would include repair of earthwork failures, regrading spot graveling, and
upkeep of drainage clearance. After road construction, equipment purchased
under the project would be utilized by SNC for maintenance of project area
roads only.
June 8, 1977



- 146                                  6
AMN>Fv' 6
Table 1
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Component
Suggested Design Standards
Design Standards                               Minimum           Maximum
Roadway width                                    4 m               5 m
Surface thickness                               10 cm             15 cm
Capacity                                         H-10              H-15
Radius of curves                                20 m                -
Fill slopes                                      1:1             1.5:1
Cut slopes                                      0.5:1            1.5:1
Grades: cut                                     0.3%               10%
fill                                     -                 10%
Gross slopes                                      2%                4%
May 25, 1977



147   _
ANNEX 6
Table 2
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Component
Equipment Investment Cost
$b'000          US$
1 Bulldozer type cat,D-6                      1,400         70,000
1 Motorgrader                                 1,000         50,000
1 Loader, 1 m  -capacity                        600         30,000
4 Dump trucks, 4 m  capacity                  1,800         90,000
1 Screening equipment                           200         10,000
1 Pneumatic roller                              400         20,000
1 Light four-wheel drive truck                  200         10,000
Spare parts                                   400         20,000
6,000        300,000
May 25, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PRO)ECT
Road Component - Total Costs
Unit    ------------       Years-------------------    Total    Total    Foreign             Foreign
No. of      Cost       1          2          3        4        5       Cost      Cost      Exchange       Exchange
Unit  Unit   US$                     -- - $b'000-----                      - -   US$    *h
1. Construction/Improvement Costs
Pumasani - La Cabana                    km        33       11,050                                                                364,550    43            156,800
Access to Acequia                       km         2       11,050                                                                 22,100    43              9,503
Acequia - Ulla Ulla                     km       3.3       20,080                                                                 66,264    45             29,819
Ulla Ulla bridge                         -        -           -                                                                   11,000    30              3,300
Ulla Ulla - airstrip                    km       2.5       20,080                                                                 50,200    45             22,590
Airstrip - Ichicollo                    km      11.8       12.850                                                                151 630    45             68,234
New roads to Ucha Ucha                  km       1.5       20,080                                                                 _30,120    45            13,554
54.1                 8,352 1/ 5,567 1/        -        -        -    13,919    695,964    44              303,800
2. Design                                  km      54.1        1,550   )_J6         - 7_7-    __ 83,855                                               _          - 
Sub-total                                                   10,029    5,567            -        -        -    15,596    779,819    39             303,800
3. Maintenance 2/                          km      54.1      270 pa.   _            240          290      290      290                                         a2292 0201 15_35
Total Costs                                                 10,029    5,807           290      290      290   16,706    835,319    37             312,125
Physical Contingencies  10,003                                                   581           29       29       29    1,671      83,532    37                  13
Total                                                       11,032    6,388           319      319      319   18,377    918,851    37             343,338
1/ 60'h of 541 km in year 1 and 407. in year 2.
2/  Including operation and maintenance cost of equipment.
May 26, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Component
Implementation Schedule
1978                                                          1979
J    F   M, A    M    J    J   A    S    0    N D                            A               J   A    S  O        N    D
A. CIVILWORKS
Engineering
Construction                                     -         -   -    -    -    -    -
Maintenance
B. EQUIPMENT
ICB procedure
Equipment delivery
Equipment use                                  L      -    -    -                          -             
C. SUPERVISION
World Bank  17846



- 150 -
ANNEX 7
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component
I. BACKGROUND
1.        Health conditions of the 3,000 families in the project area are
poor and similar to those in other depressed rural areas in Bolivia. Erup-
tive diseases such as measles and whooping cough, along with communicable
diseases (respiratory and gastrointestinal), trauma, malnutrition and preg-
nancy complications are the major causes of morbidity and mortality. Health
facilities are non-existent in the project area. Improvement in health
conditions would eliminate at least 50% of prevalent diseases (mainly
exanthematic typhus, scabies, tuberculosis, and fecally-related gastroenteric
diseases).
The Community
2.        The people in the project area are of the purest Aymara extraction
in the country. They live in small clusters, following the ancient Aymara
social organization characterized by extended families where women partici-
pate actively in decision making. Although most of them are declared Catholics,
they retain their Aymara gods (the sun or "willika" and the moon or
"packamama") in a rather stable syncretism. Their principal occupation is
raising alpaca and llama. Pasture land is community-owned, while the home
is privately owned. Marriage is a well-established institution; divorce is
non-existent. The people have a well-defined concept of the etiology of
disease: some are caused by "foreign bodies" that enter the body (such as
parasites), while others are caused by "spirites" producing "emanaciones,"
which, in turn, produce pain and disease. In Charazani village, there is an
ancient group of Aymara medicine men (Callahuallas) who are greatly respected
among the people. Another group of Aymara medical doctors hold the seat in
Tiawanaco (which is also the name of the medicine god), with three types of
specialties: the Collakamama, similar to the western internist; the
sirkakamama,similar to the western surgeon; and the jamphiri, similar to the
western psychiatrist. Although the health care they provide in the project
area is neither frequent nor systematic, it must be taken into account when
setting up organized health services in the project area.
Health Program
3.        The health status of the population in the project area is poor.
"Eruptive" diseases such as measles and whooping cough are highly prevalent.
In 1976, there were two outbreaks of exanthematic typhus, and the same year
an epidemic of measles or whooping cough (data are not sufficient to
determine which of the two diseases was involved) killed 25 children in Ulla
Ulla and eight children in Ucha Ucha. Two adults also died that year, which



- 151 -
ANNEX 7
resulted in a total of 27 deaths in Ulla Ulla out of a total population of
270. This implies an exceptionally high crude mortality rate of about 100
per 1,000. Eliminating deaths resulting from epidemics, the number of deaths
in Ulla Ulla fluctuates from six to seven per year (two adults and four or
five children), which gives an estimated crude mortality rate of between 22
and 26 per 1,000 -- one of the highest in the world -- and an early mortality
rate (under five years old) of about 18.5 per 1,000 population. The most
common causes of death, besides eruptive diseases in children, seem to be
infectious diseases and biliary problems. Rickettsiasis (exanthematic
typhus) and fasciolopsiasis (fasciola hepatica or fasciola buski) are common
causes of death in adults.
4.        The most prevalent morbidity problems are upper respiratory
infections; bacterial dermatitis mainly around the nose; pulmonary tubercu-
losis; scabiosis; parotiditis, and eruptive diseases. There are two cases of
osteomyelitis at Ucha Ucha (320 inhabitants), probably originating from
tuberculosis (both present fistulae with coseum and torpid evolution). The
Indian population is apparently highly susceptible to this disease.
5.        Malnutrition is not as severe as suspected.  The children in various
villages show no signs of severe rnalnutrition (kwashiorkor, marasmus, hair
flag sign, or skin signs of severe vitamin deficiency), which might be ex-
plained by the fact that during the child's first two years of life, he is
usually with his mother and is breast fed. Diet is mainly "chargui" (dried
alpaca meat) and "chuno" or "tunta" (dehydrated potatoes) with heavy amounts
of chili. Sheep or alpaca milk is seldom consumed. The type of algae that
grow in streams appear to have high protein content (about 20%). This is
consumed as snacks, mainly by the school children.
6.        Houses are usually in dilapidated condition and there is a lack of
adequate water supply and waste disposal facilities.
7.        Personal hygiene practices are almost non-existent.  People generally
defecate in yards near homes or in alpaca corrals. Contacts with animals both
in and around homes are close. An entire family usually sleeps together in
one bed made of adobe, under which hamsters are raised. Lice and fleas are
common under these conditions, increasing the risk of the family developing
exanthematic or murine typhus. Also, ecological conditions are perfect in
the area to reproduce the biological cycle of fasciolopsiasis. This disease
has been reported in alpacas and llamas. There are snails in streams where
algae are also growing and the people use this crude algae for food.
Health Facilities
8.        Health facilities are non-existent in the project area.  The only
accessible health facility for people living in the northern part of the
project area is a health post located in the Peruvian village of Cojata, a
three-hour walk. This health post is ill-equipped and receives only sporadic
visits from a medical doctor. There is also a medical post in Charazani (or



- 152 -
ANNEX 7
Gral. Gonzales), located in the eastern boundary of the project area, linked
by trail to Ulla Ulla (north project area) and Huallpacallo (south project
area), about 30 km from each village.  The building was upgraded to a health
center hospital last year but it still has not been equipped. There is one
medical doctor but no auxiliary personnel (the last auxiliary nurse worked
only three months because she did not speak Aymara). There are four tradi-
tional midwives in the northern project area, who when needed assist during
childbirth.
II. PROJECT HEALTH FACILITIES
9.        The primary objective of the health component would be to provide
health care services and to improve housing conditions and the personal
hygiene practices of the 3,000 families living in the project area. A health
facilities network would be established to provide minimal health services.
The network would be structured and organized around the existing communities
in the area.
Community Organization
10.       Aymara communities have a well defined organizational and leadership
structure. There is a long history of community programs among these people
as well as ancient Aymara traditions of common land ownership and joint efforts
for civic and religious activities. The project would therefore organize
existing communities in the project area into "group units" for the delivery
of health care services. The primary functions of the group units would be:
(a)  participate in gathering children for mass immunization;
(b) implementation of home improvement schemes;
(c) adoption of personal hygiene practices;
(d) construction of protected channels for streams supplying
water for domestic use;
(e) construction of pit privies; and
(f)  fund raising to co-finance "health kits" expenditures.
Health Facilities Network
11.       A micro-health post would be established in each village under the
control of a community health worker. The post would be equipped with a first
aid kit containing basic drugs for treatment of the most common ailments in
the community and would be located either at a community health worker's home
or at the village school. This would make construction of health facilities
for each village unnecessary. A total of 30 micro-health posts would be
required for the project area.



- 153 -
ANNEX 7
12.       A medical post with six beds, attached to the Ulla Ulla adminis-
trative project unit, would be constructed. Patients referred there by
health auxiliaries would be attended by a physician and an auxiliary nurse.
Recently, the health facility at Charazani was upgraded to a 12-bed medical
post, but it is still unequipped. The Ministry of Social and Public Health
(MPSSP) has proposed a $b 282,665 investment budget for this facility which
would partially cover the cost of equipment. Under the project, this
facility would be equipped as a medical post, with six beds for hospital
care as described for the Ulla Ulla medical post. This facility would serve
the population of the southern part of the project area (10,000) and the
population of neighboring communities living in the northeastern part of
Franz Tamayo province, the western part of Saavedra province, and the northern
part of Camacho province (about 6,340 people).
13.       The newly constructed health facility outside the project area
(in Achacachi), about 120 km from Charazani and about 150 km from Ulla Ulla,
would be equipped by the MPSSP and operated as the main referral hospital
for all the project area. It would provide a 20-bed capacity and basic
hospital care services such as medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics, gynecology
and surgery.
14.       The facilities described would thus form a network to provide
primary, secondary and tertiary health care, with referrals of patients
to La Paz for special treatment. The health facilities network would have
an ambulance located strategically at the Ulla Ulla medical post to transport
referrals from the northern project area to Charazani and from any of the
other health facilities to Achacachi or La Paz.
15.       The total manpower requirement for the health system would be two
physicians, two auxiliary nurses, and 30 community health workers. Community
health workers would be selected and trained for a period of six months in
the project area by the Department of Public Health University of San Andres,
which has expertise in Aymara culture and Aymara medicine, in collaboration
with the MPSSP School of Public Health. The training would focus on community
organization, personal and community health care, home improvement programs,
construction of water supply systems, pit privies facilities, and health
education programs.
16.       The Ministry of Education is willing to allow local teachers in the
project area to receive training and participate as community health workers,
an arrangement that has the advantage of training people already accepted by
the Aymaras. In this case, the teacher would play a dual role, namely,
school teacher and health worker, with well-defined responsibilities in both
jobs. Teaching activities are basically carried out during the morning, which
would allow the teacher to work in health activities during the afternoon.
The paid stipend as a community health worker would be in addition to the
earned salary as a teacher, which would represent an economic incentive to
improve performance in both duties.



- 154 -
ANNEX 7
17.       The Ulla Ulla and Charazani medical posts would be staffed by one
physician and one auxiliary nurse each. A one-week workshop on the organi-
zation, objectives and implementation of the rural health system would be
held for the community health workers in Ulla Ulla. The physician of the
Ulla Ulla medical post would be in charge of attending the referrals of
11 health workers in the northern part of the project area (from Suches to
Jahuaca) and would supervise their work. He would also make a quarterly
report on the health component development in the northern part of the project
area.
18.       The physician for the Charazani medical post would be in charge of
implementing the health component in the southern project area. He would
make a quarterly report on health component developments and would share
the supervision of 13 health auxiliaries' work with the other physician in
Ulla Ulla, who would also attend referrals. Both physicians would participate
in training aspects such as home care, programs for immunization, protection
of streams, and the construction of pit privies and their use.
Monitoring
19.       There is not basic health information (births, deaths, morbidity,
use of health services and such) available for the project area. Therefore,
a simple and efficient information sub-system for primary health care ser-
vices would be established with the following monitoring purposes:
(a) organization of domiciliary visits provided by the community
health worker to each family of the "group units";
(b) registry of health activities performed by the community
health worker;
(c) collecting vital health statistics information to set the
baseline during the first year of activities, which would
allow the quantification of the health system activities
and evaluation; and
(d) provision of a source of information for programming and
implementing supervision of community health workers.
The information sub-system would include a kit with a series of cards (for
family group unit data), a morbidity list, a risk classification of pregnant
women, a nutrition band scale for measuring nutritional status, and a map
showing the location of families belonging to the "group unit."
Supervision and Evaluation
20.       The two physicians (Ulla Ulla and Charazani) would implement a
supervision program in cooperation with the auxiliary nurses. The following
supervision schedule would allow him to make at least one monthly visit per
health auxiliary.



- 155 -
ANNEX 7
One day/week - personal supervision of three to four
health auxiliaries.
One day/month - general supervision meeting at the
health facility of all community
health workers from the surrounding
area of influence (Ulla Ulla or
Charazani).
After the first year of project implementation, the physician would delegate
some personal supervision visits to the auxiliary nurse, once she has achieved
a thorough understanding of the scope of the community health workers' acti-
vities. The "master kit" would be the key instrument for personal visits.
The supervisor would select a sample of cards belonging to two or three
families and check the type and quality of registration data. He would then
review the program visits for the day and accompany the community health
worker on his field work. At the end of a domiciliary visit, he would comment
on the performance of the health worker, always keeping in mind the construc-
tive, educational purpose of the supervision. The average time spent on each
visit would be about two hours, including travel time.
21.       The health system would be evaluated, first, by assessing the
changes in mortality and the conditioning factors of personal hygiene, home
improvement, construction of pit privies and their use, and protection of
streams supplying water for human consumption; and second, by developing a
before and after household sample survey to obtain information from
villagers about availability, accessibility, and satisfaction with health
care services delivery.
Cost
22.       The total investment cost of the health component would be
$b 1.9 million (US$95,000). Total recurrent cost would be $b 6.2 million
(US$311,590). Investment and current cash costs are detailed in Table 1.
Cost Sharing and Recovery
23.       Based on MPSSP's established price list of changes for health
services delivered through its health facilities, cost recovery for drugs,
medical supplies and food would amount to about $b 51,500 per annum. The
remaining costs would be financed by the Bank and the Government and would
not be recovered from the beneficiaries. Cost for the sixth and subsequent
years would be borne by the Government.
Implementation
24.       MPSSP would be responsible for the construction of health facili-
ties, procurement of equipment, and administration of health facilities. The
Department of Public Health (DPH) of the University of San Andres, under an



- 156 -
ANNEX 7
operational agreement with I4PSSP, would be responsible for inplementing
the training, monitoring, supervisiorn arn  evaluation aspec_s of the proposed
health system. The operational agreement between MPSSP and DPH would in-
clude the following features:
(a)  the MPSSP would delegate the responsibility for implementing
the organization of "group units" for health services
delivery and training, monitoring, supervision and evaluation
of the health component to DPH;
(b)  a health component committee wuid be organized, with parti-
cipation by a member of the MPSSP planning office, a member
from the MPSSP Division of Epidemiology, and two faculty
members of the DPI-1.  This committee wouid be direcetd by the
Chairman of the DPH or his delegate. Th-is committee would
also take the responsibility of providing full support (adminis-
tration, logistics, and coordination) for the implamentation
of health component;
(c)  the DPH would follow the contents o the appraisal document
to implement the organization of 9group units" and the develop-
ment of training, monitoring, supervlsion and evaluation
elements of the health system;
(d)  according to DPH proposed time and manpower sched'ules,
there would be two faculty members in the project a--ea
for six full months to de-velop the training course.  Once
the community health workers have been trained and -he
health services started, one DPH facult y member T'p-ould
visit the area for supervision and evalua-ion of
health component for one week every 45 days.  One of the
MPSSP committee members would accompany him every other
visit for three days.  Per diem stipends have been pro-
vided in the budget;
(e)  interns or residents could be brought in to work as
physicians in the medical posts of the project area,
(f)  funds for training materials, salaries of teach&ig staff;
micro-health posts installation and supervision and
evaluation would be managed by the DP}{ under authorized
and audited account by the I4PSSP;
(g)  the DPH would submit written progress reports eve:y six
months to the MPSSP; and
(h)  drugs and medical supplies for the project area health
facilities would be channeled through DPH.
June 8, 1977



- 157 -
BOLIVIA
Ul.it ULIA D2I:0TI)PMJ:lit PROtJECT                                                     ANNIX  7
Health Component                                                                  Table 1
I-veetment and Operating Cost Phaning
Unit    -----Toa---------------------lYeas-------------__ _ --- Tota                   Tetal      Foreign        Foreign
No. of       Coot           1             2           3           4           5         Cost        Coot       E.hobege       Ex-hange
Units     ________________------------------------b----- ---------------------------    US$                   _                00
I. Inoentmeot Cootn
A. Trainig
1. Shoblarships               30        6,750       202,500           -                                             202,500   10,125
2. Traointn matersalo
M.nuals               35           300        10,500           -           -           -           -          10.500       525          50            262
MCater kits           35           680        23,800           -           -           -          -           23,800    1,190           60            714
Miorn-he-Ith           2         2,500         5,c00          -           -           -           -            5,000       250          55            137
Slide proje-tor        1         7,000         7,000          -           -           -           -            7,000       350          40            140
Bicycles              30         3,000        90,000          -           -           -           -          90,000    4,500            40          1,800
Offi-e nupplies        2        20,000        40,000           -           -           -           -         40,000    2,000            70          1,400
3. Sslarieo of toaching
staff -n an-eonthn      12        6,020         72,000          -           -           -                       72,000    3,6pO                         -
Sub-total                                 450,800          -           -           -           -         450,800   22,540            20          4,453
1;. IlaltI, F-oiltti-o and Eqiip-ent
1. Medical pont _ UlIn Ella
a) Coontrottion - m2    255         2,522       642,600           -           -           _           -         642,600   32,130           30    '    9,639
b) Eqoip-ent
Furnt-re                                    85,800          -           -                                  65,800    4,290            50          2.145
Appliances                                  16,750          -           -           -            _          16,750       838          7$            587
sterilioat-on                               22,620          -           -           -            _         22,620    1,131            70            792
Mat.resses and linen                        19,56D           -           -           -           _          19,560'      978          60            587
Linen for de,i-ey roan                       5,160           -          -                                    5 -  3,160  258          60            155
Medionl eqoipnent                           ,8250           -           -           _            _          8,250        413          70            248
Ubntetic.,eqnip-ent                         14,930          -           -           _            _          14,930       746          70            448
Mano snrgeny                                 7,930           -           -           -           -           7,930       396          70            238
Applianoen for
dreosing tables                             1,510          -           -           -           -           1,510         76          70             46
Laboratory                                  20,390           -           -           _           _          20,390    1,019           70            611
c) Vohicle - 4-wheel
drion                 1      1000          16000                                                          1601,000                     5          7,600
Sob-total                             1.005,500          _           _           _           -       1,005,500   50,275           46         23,096
7. Merdimal pont - Charazani
a) Equip-nt (nane on
for Ulla Ullo
nedicol post)                             202,900          -           -           _           -         202,900   10,145          5s           s,857
b) Vehiole - 4-bheel
dri-e                 1      160,000       160,000          -                                             10,000    8,000             95          7,600
Slb-total                              362,900          -           -           _                     362,900   18,145           74         13,457
C. Miorohealth Posts
1. Fit.                        30          800        24,030          -           -           -           -          24,000    1,200           25             300
2. Drags                       30        1,700        51,l00          -           -           _           _          51.000    2,550           70          1,785
Sob-total                               75,000          -           -           -           -          75,000    3,750           55           2,005
otal  intes tment                              1,894,200                           _                           1,894,200   94,6710          45         43 091
I10    OPneotieg Cost
A. Peesonel
1. Ulla ills nedical
post (nan-year)
Physi-san 11)              5     116,690       116,690       116,690    128,359    128,359        134,777      624,875   31,244
Aoniilary  --rse (1)      5       25,466        25,466       25,466      28,013      28,013        29,413      136,371    6,818
Laundry - cleaning
personnel              5       21,000        21,000       21,000      23,100      23,100       24,255       112,455    5,623
Driver (1)                 5      21,000         21,000       21,000      23,100      23,100       24.255      112,455    5 623
Sob-total                             184,156      184,156    202,572    202,572        212,700      986,156   49,307
2. Charazan.i edgool
post (name en
Ulla Ulla)                                    184,156       184,156    202,572    202,572        212,700      986,700   49,308
3. Counoity health
workers (30)            150      12,733       381.990       381,990    420,189    420.189        441,198   2,045,556  102,278
Sob-total                              750,302      750,302    825,333    825,333        866,598   4,017,868  200,893             -            -
0. local Kark Technical Premiums
1. peofessiona7                         27,300 p,.o
Ulla Ullo (1)                                  13,500        27,000      29,700     29,700        31,185      131,085    6,554
Charazani (1)                                   27,000       27,000      29,700      29,700       31,185      144,585    7,229
2. Auxiliaries                           0,8000 p.a.
Ulla Ulls (1)                                    5,400       10,800      11,880      111800       12,474       52,434    2,622
Choac-ani (1)                                   10.800       10.800      11_880      11,880       12,474       57 834    26892
sb- total                              56,700       75,600      83,160      83,160       87,318      385,930   19,297           -
3. Pond
Ulla Ella                                       17,500       35,000      38,000      38,000       40,000      168,500    8,425           25         2,106
CheZoani                                        35,000       353000      38,000      38,000       40,000      186,000    9,300           25         2.325
Sob-total                              52,500       70,000      76,000      76,000       80,000      354,500   17,725           25         4,431
4. Drals and Mledical Onpelien
2. EllRa i Slo52,500                                           105,000    115,000    105,000        121,000      508,500   25.425           70        17,797
2. Ch-aronoi                                      105,l90      105.000    j,90         15,000       121,000      5A1,000   2805             70'       15,635
Sob-total                             157,500      210,000    230,000    230,000        242.000   1,069,500   53,475            70        37,432
5. Supervision and Evaluation
1. Office suppli-e                                   -           7,500       8,000       8,000        8,000       31,500    1,575           60            945
2. Salaries of soper-isons
-         16,000      17,500      17,500       19,100        70,150    3,505           -            _
3. P-r diom stieoeds                                 _          15.800      17_500      17,500       18.100       68,900    3.445
Sob-total.                                                      ,,.          7 0          810         6 90       34,          
Sub-total 6                                         39,300      43,000      43,000       45,200      170,500    8,525            11           945
6, Teransportation (fool and
maietenance)                                     24.000     48.000      53_000      53_000        55,500      233,500   11,675           15         1,751
Total oPerating costs                            1.041.002  1,153,202   _310493  1,310.493   1.376.616   6.231,806  31,590                  14        44_559
Total -ost (investment and
operating)                                  2,935,202  1,193,202  1,310,493  1,310,493   1,376,616   8,126,006  406,300                 22        87,650
Physioal .o.tingenoies - 1T/. oe
heaIth facilities, equipment
and nicrobolth pats                          144              -         _             -            -         144,340    7,217           54         3897
Total                                         1.193,202  i1493  1,310, 49    1.376,616                                        225704346  4130 547
Jane 0, 1977



- 158 -
ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply and Human Waste Disposal Systems
Background
1.        Most of the Ulla Ulla villagers depend for their water supplies
on open ditches, which are polluted by local overland drainage, and on con-
ventional dug wells, which are also unsanitary for drinking since they are
unprotected. Their pit privies are poor and unsanitary with human waste
scattered and unprotected. Under these ecological conditions, a safe water
supply system and sanitized waste are complementary to each other and should
be treated together, as would be done under the project.
2.        Unlike many other areas, Ulla Ulla has enough water for its inha-
bitants. Snowmelt and natural lake runoffs help keep streams and village
ditches running year-around. Also good shallow aquifer and spring waters are
plentiful to the extent that a certain portion of the project area is water-
logged. However, the lack of a sanitary water supply and human waste disposal
system is considered to be a social constraint to increasing productivity in
the project area since it would be optimistic to expect the project to gene-
rate the full benefit if its people are in poor health.
The Project Sanitary Systems
3.        Since any improved measures to be introduced for use by the rural
poor must be simple, effective, long-lasting and, of course, afforadable, the
project proposes to provide a water supply system that uses a locally made
hand pump from a protected well dug inside the villages or close to them
(similar to that of the Ingavi Project). Field interviews show that such a
system would be welcomed in the project area.
4.        The main features of the well and pump are as follows:
Well - Average diameter                       1.00 m
Depth                                 4 - 5 m
Brick chamber for sand protection at bottom,
if needed
Back-filled after pump installation
Pump - The main body: 3"  p.v.c. pipe with a
steel handle
Piston rings: plastic or leather with a
1/2" steel rod
Screen: p.v.c. pipe
Capable of discharging about 0.7 liters/stock



- 159 -
ANNEX 8
Pumps would be fabricated in La Paz. By using p.v.c. for the body, not only
will the cost be less, but the pump will be simple, easy to install and
operate, and inexpensive to maintain. Also, back-filling the well and
providing a covered concrete platform after installing the pump will help
protect the well from local contamination. Other alternatives, such as a
central system pumping water from a deep well by windmill or gravitationally
pipelining surface water from its sources, have been reviewed, but they are
prohibitively expensive and more sophisticated to operate and maintain.
5.        In dealing with human waste, the project would provide a protected
system of pit privies designed to cope with the high groundwater table pre-
vailing in the area. The main features of these pit privies are as follows:
(a) the pit will be about 2.00 m deep, protected by casings of
4 x 1.00 m 0 x 0.60 m concrete pipes, and about 0.50 m above
the ground surface, covered by a concrete platform with a
ventilation system and seat cover; and
(b) the enclosure will be a simple dirt hut with a grass roof.
Village Homesteads
6.        Generally a village homestead consists of four buildings built
around a rectangular playground about 150 x 150 m in size. Each building
has five to 10 compartments, each of which is occupied by a family of
about five persons. Schools, if any, are within about 300 m. Therefore,
the proposed hand-pump well system would appear ideal since pumps could be
installed for use by a cluster of families.
Water Demands and Pump Capacities
7.        The proposed pump is capable of supplying at least 500 liters per
day, which, on an average consumption of 60 liters per day per capita (15 gpd),
could serve a minimum of eight persons. Thus, three pumps would be adequate
to serve a cluster of five families.
Scope of Work
8.        The project would serve only about 67% of the population because
villagers are scattered widely and many are in high rugged areas barely
accessible even by existing earth tracks. Priority would be given to the more
critical areas. About 1,200 pumps would be installed over the project con-
struction period. With three pumps per five families (para 6), the project
could serve about 2,000 families out of the total 3,000.
9.        Along with the pump installation, about 1,000 pit privies would be
provided for these 2,000 families - an average of about one unit per two
families.



- 160 -
ANNEX 8
Costs - Water Supply System
10.       The investment cost (cash) of the hand-pump dug well is about
$b 5,500 (US$275), excluding the labor cost for well excavation which would
require about 18 man-days. About 25% of the cost is the foreign exchange
component.  Details are given in Table 1.  The total investment cost, 25% of
which would be for spare pumps, would be about $b 7,650,000 (US$383,000); of
this, about $b 2,000,000 (US$100,000) would be the foreign exchange cost.
The average per capita investment is computed at US$38.30 (based on 2,000
families of five persons each).
11.       The annual operation and maintenance costs that are detailed in
Table 1 are estimated to be about $b 200 (US$10.00), of which about 90%
($b 180) would be borne by beneficiaries and 10% ($b 20) by the Government
for annual inspection.
Costs - Pit Privy System
12.       The unit cost of a pit privy would be about $b 1,800 (US$90.00),
excluding labor cost for pit excavation which would require about 14 man-days.
The foreign component would account for about 15% to reflect transportation
requirements. Details are given in Table 2. The total investment cost
(cash) would be $b 1,800,000 (US$90,000); of this, about $b 260,000
(US$13,000) would be the foreign exchange component. The per capita invest-
ment is computed at US$9.00.
13.       The annual costs, that are detailed in Table 2 are estimated at
$b 50 (US$2.50), of which about $b 25 would be borne by beneficiaries and
$b 25 by the Government for annual inspection.
Cost Sharing and Recovery
14.       The beneficiaries would be expected to contribute to the investment
in the form of labor (US$61,000), because of their weak financial position.
For this, they could supply about 18 man-days ($b 630) digging and back-
filling a water supply well, and about 14 man-days ($b 490) excavating a pit
privy. The Government would bear the remaining costs without recovery. Also,
the beneficiaries would be expected to maintain the facilities, while the
Government would provide at-site inspection services to ensure proper working
condition of the systems.
Implementation
15.       The Ministry of Social Security and Public Health (MPSSP) would be
responsible for installing the hand-pump wells and pit privies. This agency
is, at present, undertaking similar work for the on-going Ingavi Project
(Loan 1211-BO) and its limited capacity is being expanded to cope with that
project's requirements. The technical assistance being provided in the Ingavi,



- 161 -
ANNEX 8
plus the expanded capacity and experience gained from implementing these
facilities, should make MPSSP adequately competent to handle works under the
proposed project. On this basis, no consultants would be required.
June 4, 1977



162  -                      ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply System
Details of Cost Estimates for Hand-pump Well
Foreign Exchange
Total             Requirements
--------------$b-----------------
Investment Costs (cash)
1. Pump set and accessories                     3,000               1,000
2. Installation
- Excavation and backfill             (beneficiaries) 1/         -
- Concrete platform                          175
- Pump stand                                 250                 -
- Transportation                             200                 200
- Engineering and supervision
(30%)                          1,000                 -
- Miscellaneous (10%)                        163                  20
4,788               1,220
- Physical contingencies (10%)               479,                122
Annual  0 & M Costs
- Replacement of piston/rings                 80 2/
- Other repair 3% (of $b 3,000)              100 2/
- Annual inspection                           25
205
1/ 18 man-days ( @$b 35).
2/ By beneficiaries (cash)
June 4, 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 2
- 163 -
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pit Privy System
Investment Costs (Cash)
Foreign Exchange
Total                Component
---------------$b-----------------
Materials and Installation
- Concrete culveris
(4) x 0.35 m /m x 0.60 x $b 1,000        840                 -
- Concrete platform                            100                 -
- P.V.C. pipe 2"0 x 0.60 m                      50                 -
- Seat and cover L/S                           100                 -
- Excavation                               (beneficiaries) 1/      -
- Adobe structure                               "                 200
- Transportation                               200                 -
- Engineering and supervision (15%)            200
- Miscellaneous (5%)                            80                 -
1,570                200
- Physical contingencies (15%)                 230                 25
1,800                225
Annual 0 & M Costs
- General repair 1.5% ($b 1,800)                25 2/
- Annual inspection                             25
50
1/  14 man-days(@  $b 35).
2/ By beneficiaries (cash).
June 4, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply - Total Costs
Unit   _--_-------------------------------Years-----------------------           Total           Total        Foreign       Foreign
No. of      Cost            1            2             3             4             5          Cost            Cost         Exchange      Exchange
Units      ---------------------------------------------$b-----------------------------------                 US$          _ _            US$
Cash Co0ts
Investment Costs
Pump sets 1/
Installed 2/             1,200        3,000       360,000      810,000       810,000       810,000       810,000      3,600,000        180,000         33           59,400
Spare 3/                    300       3,000        90,000      202,500       202,500       202,500       202,500         900,000        45,000         33           14,850
Concrete platform            1,200          175        21,000       47,250        47,250        47,250        47,250        210,000        10,500         25            2,625
Engineering and
supervision              1,200        1,000       120,000      270,000       270,000       270,000       270,000       1,200,000        60,000         -              -
Transportation               1,200          200        24,000       54,000        54,000        54,000        54,000        240,000        12,000         -               -
Miscellaneous                1,200          163        19.560       44.010        44,010        44,010        44.010        195.600         9.780          -              -       4
Sub-total                                      634,560   1,427,760    1,427,760    1,427,760    1,427,760          6,345,600        317,280         24           76,875
Operating Costs
(maintenance)               1,200          200                    24,000         78.000       132,000       186.000        420,000        21.000         25            5.250
Total baseline cost                                         634,560   1,451,760    1,505,760    1,559,760    1,613,760          6,765,600        338,280         24           82,125
Physical contingency
10% of cash investment
costs                                                     63.456      142.776       142.776       142.776       142.776        634.560         31,728         24            7.615
Total Costs and physical
contingency                                              698,016   1,594,536    1,648,536    1,702,536    1,756,536          7,400,160        370,008         24           89,740
Phasing of installation
No. of sets                    1,200                        120          270           270            270           270          -              -             -             -
1/  Hand pump with PVC casing,  locally manufactured.
2/  Three pumps for five families, serving 60% of the total number of families
in the project area (3,200).
3/ 25% of 1,200.
July 6, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Waste Disposal (Pit Privies)
Total Costs
Unit    -----------------------------------Years----------------------    Total                Total         Foreign         Foreign
No. of         Cost          1            2            3              4             5            Cost          Cost          Exchange       Exchange
Units       ------------------------------------------------$b---------------------------------                US$             %             US$
Cash Costs
Investment Costs                1,000 1/
Concrete culvert
(pipe)                                     840       84,000      189,000      189,000        189,000       189,000        840,000       42,000           25             10,500
Concrete platform                            100       10,000       22,500        22,500        22,500         22,500       100,000         5,000           25             1,250
PVC pipe ventilation                          50        5,000        11,250       11,250        11,250         11,250        50,000         2,500           50             1,250
Seat and cover                               100       10,000        22,500       22,500        22,500         22,500        100,000        5,000            -               -
Engineering and
supervision                                200       20,000       45,000        45,000        45,000         45,000       200,000        10,000            -              -
Transportation                               200       20,000        45,000       45,000        45,000         45,000       200,000        10,000            -               -
Miscellaneous                                 80        8.000        18,000       18,000         18,000        18,000         80,000        4,000            -               -
Sub-total                            1,570       157,000      353,250      353,250        353,250       353,250    1,570,000          78,500          17             13,000 O
Maintenance Costs                                 27        2,700        8,775        14,850        20,925        27,000         74,250        3,712           25                928
Total cash costs                                    159,700      362,025       368,100       374,175        380,250    1,644,250         82,212           17            13.928
Total baseline costs                                        163,200      369,900      375,975        382,050        388,125    1,679,250         83,962          17             13,928
Physical contingency 2/                                       15,700       35,325        35,325        35,325         35,325       157,000         7,850           17             1,300
Tbtalcosts and physical
contingency                                             175.400       397,350      403,425        409,500       415.575    1,801.250         90,062           16             14.300
Phasing of Investment
No. of pit privies              1,000            100          225          225           225           225           -            -               -              -              -
1/ One pit privy for two families, serving 60% of the population in the
project area (3,200).                                                                                                                                                          1 3
2/ 10% of cash investment costs.                                                                                                                                                  a
July 6, 1977                                                                                                                                                                         X



- 166 -
ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Component
Background
1.        The education program administered by the Ministry of Education and
Culture in the Ulla Ulla region are poor. It is commonly accepted that the
majority of graduates from local schools are as ill prepared to contribute to
the welfare of their communities as their counterparts who never set foot in
a classroom, mainly because courses are irrelevant to the actual needs of the
local population. While parents in the project area still maintain that it is
important for their children to get an education, they all agree that neither
the facilities nor the teaching staff are adequately equipped to help their
children learn something useful for the practical world in which they live.
Consequently, when the decision must be made as to whether children should be
sent to school or kept home to help around the house and with the animals, they
often choose the latter, with little misgiving. The poor attendance is also
influenced by the fact that: (a) the academic year runs into the peak seasons
of agricultural activities when children are expected to help with field work
rather than attend class; (b) many children have to stay away from school be-
cause of a lack of medical attention; and (c) the majority of the students who
enroll in the first grades know only Aymara, so they cannot understand what is
being taught in Spanish.
2.        Rural education in general has had relatively low priority in Bolivia
until recently, but Ulla Ulla has additional handicaps: the region is remote
from any major population centers; accessibility during the rainy season is
difficult, if not impossible; and its low, widely distributed population has
inhibited the Government's provision of assistance for the development of human
resources.
3.        The lack of Government aid is particularly noticeable in the poor
and inadequate school facilities in the project area. Conditions of the adobe
school structures are such that, in many cases, renovation would be more
expensive than constructing new schools. Classrooms are damp and cold, roofs
usually leak, rooms are improperly ventilated and poorly illuminated. Addi-
tionally, the schools lack adequate drinking water facilities and pit privies.
Most schools are inadequately furnished, lack basic teaching aid materials and
equipment, and teachers use Peruvian textbooks in many courses because of
unavailability of locally produced teaching materials. The courses taught in
the project area also have a built-in urban and academic bias, which has
little relevance to the students' environment and eventual work needs.
Attendance rates are low, dropout rates are very high, and the proportion of
over-aged pupils with respect to average-aged students is relatively high by
comparison with other regions.



- 167 -
ANNEX 9
4.        The zones selected for implementation of the educational component
have been confined to an area containing 17 schools, 16 of which offer primary
education (grades 1 to 5) and one intermediate school (grades 6 to 8),
located in Ulla Ulla. In 1976, the primary schools had a total enrollment of
730 students, of which only one-third were girls. Eighteen pupils were at the
intermediate level. Enrollment records for children show that only 26% of
the total number of children between the ages of six and 11 living in the area
attended classes in 1976, and there were no arrangements for vocational train-
ing for graduates from the primary and intermediary schools or for adults.
5.        The schools in the area are administered by an absentee superinten-
dent who lives and studies at a university in La Paz, and by 29 teachers re-
siding permanently in the designated area. About 50% of the teaching staff
have not attended teacher training colleges and under ordinary circumstances
would not be permitted to teach in public schools. Many of them are students
who have been appointed as temporary substitutes for titled teachers, who
make all possible efforts not to be transferred to rural areas, particularly
not to the Ulla Ulla region. Those who do accept such appointments use the
time to gain experience and to get on the payroll of the Ministry of Education.
Their living conditions are hard, by comparison with other teachers living
closer to La Paz, and salaries are low, not exceeding US$100 per month equiv-
alent. Accommodations are inadequate and teachers often have to live in
houses lacking basic facilities such as heating, light, ventilation, water
and pit privies.
Project Scope
6.        Elements.  Except for the radio program, the education component
would contain, with some minor modifications, the same items financed for the
basic and intermediate levels under Loan 1404-BO, Education and Vocational
Training Project.  The component would initiate a modest program to rebuild
and improve the existing schools, furnish and equip them, provide teaching
materials, upgrade teachers' skills, introduce bilingual programs, bring
school calendars in line with agricultural cycles, develop new curricula
teaching materials, and establish, on a pilot basis, a community education
program.  Specifically, the component would finance:
(a) Basic Education Infrastructure - construct 25 and renovate
two classrooms, to bring the total of adequate classrooms
in the project area to 39 by 1981. Construct 20 pit privies;
build 30 houses for the teachers and their families and install
new furniture in the 39 classrooms. This program would enable
the schools to support a total enrollment of 1,254 students
by 1981. Detailed enrollment projections are provided in
Table 1. All schools would be provided with water supply.
(b) Intermediate Schools - replace the existing intermediate
school of Ulla Ulla with a new school to accommodate 50
students; work would include construction of dormitories,



- 168 -
ANNEX 9
cafeteria, library, a science laboratory, a workshop, a
water supply and pit privy system, and a multipurpose
conference room to serve the school and the community.
(c) Textbooks and Learning Materials - finance the provision
of textbooks and education aids, bilingual programs and
other materials developed under the Education and Voca-
tional Training Project. The school would charge
students a small rental fee for the books and other edu-
cation aids, which would be refunded when they were
returned to the school in good condition.
(d) Teachers' Training - finance travel and subsistence of
the 29 teachers to Warisata College to participate in
upgrading courses that would be given by personnel
trained under the First Education and Vocational Training
Project.
7.        Design Standards.  The following norms would be applied in designing
the schools:
Square meters
per student
Classrooms                              1.30 - 1.40
Science laboratory                          2.00
Workshop                                    4.00
Library                                     1.60
Pit privies                                 1.20
Dormitories                                 6.00
Other areas                                 1.00
Dining room                                 1.40
Kitchen                                     0.84
The schools and teachers' housing would be built according to prototype
designs already decided upon for the First Education Project. Design of the
basic schools and of the intermediate school would be prepared by professional
staff of the Project Unit. Teachers' houses would cover a total area of
46.9 sq m for married teachers and include two bedrooms, a living-dining
room, bathroom and kitchen. For single teachers, floor area would be
23.45 sq m and include a bedroom, a living-dining room, a kitchen and a
bathroom.
Cost
8.        Total cost of the education component would amount to $b 12.2 million
(US$604,000) and would include:



- 169 -
ANNEX 9
(a) Investment Costs - school infrastructure, learning material,
teachers training and one vehicle for the supervisor. It
also would include travel and subsistence expenses on one
specialist from the Education and Vocational Training Project
implementing agency to supervise construction works. Total
investment cost would amount to $b 9.4 million (US$472,000).
Detailed costing is given in Tables 2, 3 and 4.
(b) Incremental Operating Costs - these costs would amount to
$b 1.7 million (US$85,000) during the five years (Table 4).
They would include salaries of the supervisor and his driver,
operation cost of the vehicle, housing costs of the supervisor
(rent) and school maintenance costs.
(c) Physical Contingencies - 10% would be allowed on investment
costs -- $b 944,625 (US$47,000).
Implementation
9.        The main responsibility for the implementation of this component
would be delegated to a specialist who would be contracted by the Project
Unit managing the Education and Vocational Training Project and seconded to
the National Institute for Development of Wool (INFOL). The matters of
daily operations, the specialist would report to INFOL's Chief of Agricultural
and Social Welfare Division, but he would follow the outline of the detailed
action program for the implementation of the education component prepared by
the Project Unit. The specialist would live in the main compound of the
Agricultural Division in the Ulla Ulla area and would work closely with the
teaching staff in the selected area. The project would finance his salary
and housing for five years and the costs of a vehicle and a driver. The
teachers involved would report directly to the project specialist. The Project
Unit in the Ministry of Education would monitor the progress of this component
with the assistance of the specialist and would prepare semi-annual progress
reports.
10.       Construction works (see Chart 1) would be carried out by local con-
tractors, selected through local competitive bidding. The alternative of
entrusting construction to SNDC (Servicio Nacional de Desarrollo de la
Comunidad), as in the First Education Project, does not seem feasible at this
time as SNDC appears already overcommitted under the Bank's Education Project.
The Government would provide adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance
and repair of all buildings, furniture and equipment provided under the project.
June 14, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Component - Estimated Enrollment 1976-81
No. of
Grades in       ---------------Projected Enrollment--------------                 No. of Classrooms
Nucleus and Satellite Schools                        1976             1976      1977       1978      1979      1980      1981           Needed by 1981
Basic Schools
Ulla Ulla
Ulla Ulla Central School                           5                54        62        71        81        92        105                  3
Antaquilla                                         3                30        34        39        44         50        57                  2
Coolo                                              3                28        32        36        41         47        54                  2
Canuhuma                                           3                34        39        44        50        57         65                  2
Hichocollo                                         5                63        72        82        94        107       122                  3
Huacochani                                         3                28        32        37        42         48        55                  2
Nuvepampa                                          3                31        35        4t        46         52        59                  2
Puyo-Puyo                                          3                30        34        39        44         50        57                  2
Suchez                                             3                30        34        39        44         50        57                  2
Ucha-Ucha                                          3                30        34        39        44         50        57                  2
Sub-total                                                358       408       466       530       603        688                 22
Amarete
Llachuani                                          5                89        98       109        121       135       150                  4
Jotajoko                                           3                30        33        37         41        46        51                  2
Sub-total                                                119       131       146       162       181        201                  6
Kaata
Morokarka                                          4                31        33         35        37        40        43                  1
Apacheta                                           3                35         37       40         43        46        49                  2              o
Chullina                                           4                86        92        98        105       112       119                  3
Sub-total                                                152       162       173       185        198       211                  6
Ococoya
Huarachani                                         4                41        45        49         53        58        63                  2
Pallanani                                          4                59        64         70        76        83        91                  3
Sub-total                                                100       109       119       129        141       154                  5
Total basic enrollment                                   729        810       904    1,006    1.123    1,254                     39
Ulla Ulla Intermediate School                           2                18        21        25        29         34        40
Total  enrollment                                        747       831       929    1,035      1,157      1,294                 44
1/ Projections are based on the following assumptions:
1976        1981
Total estimated population                6,500        6,605
In age group 6-11                         1,593        1,618
Enrollments                                  729       1,254
In age group 6-11                           425          731                                                                                     ( X
Attendance rate                             26.3%       45.2%                                                                                    -
May 25, 1977



_ 171 _
ANNEX 9
Table 2
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Education Schools
Costs of Construction and Furnishing
Number         Unit Cost           Total Cost
---$b000-_-_-__-
Classrooms
Reconstructed or constructed    25                 72               1,800
Renovated                          2               18                   36
Pit Privies                          20                 7                 140
Teachers' Houses                     30                81              22,430
Total                                            4,406
Outside works (8%)                                                        352
Total construction costs                                        4,758
Classroom Furniture                  39 sets           14                 546
Total investment costs                                          5,304
June 9, 1977



- 172 -
ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA                             Table 3
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Intermediate School (Ull-a Ulla)
Costs of Construction, Furniture and Equipme_t
($b)
No. of         Cost per
sq meters      sq_Leters      Total Cost
Civil Works
Classroom (one for 36 students)             50
Science lab (for 15)                        30
Multiple workshop (for 15)                  60
Library (for 20, plus shelves and
audio-visual equipment)                   50
Bathrooms                                   15
Dining room/conference room (for 50)        70
Kitchen                                     42
Dormitories (for 50)                       300         _
Sub-total               617            1,380           851,460
Outside walls (+ 28%)                                                     238,409
Total                                                1,089,869
outside works (+ 25%)                                                     272,467
Total                                                1,362,336
Professional fees                                                        213,235
Total civil works                                    1,575,571
Furniture
Classroom                                                                 16,000
Science lab                                                               10,000
Workshop                                                                  15,000
Library                                                                   13,000
Dining!conference room                                                    25,000
Kitchen                                                                   10,000
Dormitories                                                               20,000
Total furniture                                        109,000
Equipment (bathroom, kitchen)                                                43,200
Total investment cost                                        l727,771
June 9, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Component - Total Costs
Unit   ------------------------------Years--------------------  Total                  Total         Foreign        Foreign
No. of       Cost            1          2          3           4          5          Cost            Cost         Exchange        Exchange
Investment Costs                     Units      -      -------$b'000-----_-__                                            _              US$'000                        U0'$'000
School infrastructure
Basic education schools 1/
Civil works                                                4,758         -          -          -          -            4,758         238             30               71
Furniture                                                     546        -          -          -           -             546           27            50               14
Equipment                                                    360         -          -          -          -              360           18            80               14
Sub-total                                               5,664        -          -           -          -           5,664          283             35               99
Intermediary School
Civil works                                                1,576         -          -          -          -            1,576           79            30               24
Furniture                                                     109        -          -          -           -             109            5            50                2
Equipment                                                      43        -          -          -          -               43            2            80                2
Sub-total                                               1,728        -           -          -          -           1,728           86             33               28
Total infrastructure                                    7,392        -           -          -          -              32369                       34              127
Vehicle (1)                                                        160        -           -          -          -              160           8            100                8
Textbooks and learning material                                  1,000        -           -          -          -            1,000          50             60               30
Supervision of construction 2/                                      20        -          -           -          -               20            1            -                -
Teachers' training 3/                                              874        -          -           -          -              874          44             16                7
Total investment costs                                  9,446        -           -          -          -           9,446          472             36              172
Operating Costs
School maintenarce costs                                            66        66          66         66         66             330          17             29                5
Operation and maintenance of
vehicles                                                       40        40         40         40         40             200           10            10                1
Other supplies                                                      10        10          10         10         10              50            2            20   "\           4
Salaries: supervisor                  man/year         5           168       168         168        168        168             840          42             -                 -
driver                    man/year         5             54        54         54          54         54             270          13             -
Housing (rent)                                                       1          1          1          1          1               5            1            -                 _
Total operating costs                                     3339                             339        339           1 69            85            12               10
Total costs (baseline costs)                                     9,785       339        339         339        339          11,141         557             33              182
Physical contingencies (10 on
investment costs)                                             945         -          -          -           -              945          47             36               17
Total                                                   10,730       339         339        339        339          12,086          604            33              199
1/ Including teachers' housing.                                                                                                                                           a 
2/ One supervisor and one driver @ $b 180 per day each, three days every
second week for eight months, plus some margin.
3/ Per diems and local travel of teachers to Warisata.
June 14, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Component - Implementation Schedule 1, (Year 1)
J         F         M          A         M          9         J         A          S         0          N         D
CONSTRUCTION
Civil Works                                                                  -
Completion works                                                                       -                    -
Ordering of furniture and
equipment
Manufacturing furniture                                         _ _    _       _       _       _    =       _          _       E    _
Del ivery
TEACHERS TRAINING
Training for directors
(two weeks)
Teachers' training
(one month)
1J Coordinated with the programs for the other areas of the
First Education and Vocational Training Project.
May 25, 1977                                                                                                                              World Bank - 17845



- 175 -
ANNEX 10
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Women's Participation Component
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The objective of the Ulla Ulla Rural Development Project is to
initiate, on a modest scale, an integrated development program to raise the
living standards of about 3,000 farm families residing in the project area.
Since women play a predominant role in economic activities in rural areas and
their involvement and support in the development efforts proposed would be
crucial to the success of the project, a component to increase women's
participation has been included. This is the first rural development project
to make a deliberate effort to increase women's participation in the develop-
ment process.
Current Situation
2.        The living conditions of typical housewives in the project area are
extremely harsh and the rewards very limited. They work hard and die at the
relatively young average age of about 45. Girls mature fast and assume adult
responsibilities at a young age. Five year old girls are assigned to herding
alpacas, spinning, hauling water over long distances, collecting dung for
cooking fuel, washing dishes, and sweeping the house yards. Teenage girls
continue to look after alpacas/llamas, but begin to spend more of their time
taking care of their brothers and sisters, and in spinning, weaving and
cooking. Average age for marriage is about 15 years, at which time they are
accepted as full and equal members of their communities. Economic considera-
tions are the crucial factors for both boys and girls in selecting a partner.
Parents are very careful to ensure that their children marry into a family
better off than their own, or at least that they select a partner that is
serious and hard working. Women who have reputations for being hard working
and enterprising are in great demand since the wife is expected to help her
husband improve the economic welfare of the new family. Married women con-
tinue the work to which they have been accustomed since early childhood, but
with greater intensity. Feeding, clothing, and bearing children and managing
the financial affairs of the family keeps them constantly occupied. Their
work schedule is governed by the requirements of the various agricultural
seasons--shearing alpaca/llama; collecting the fleece; washing, spinning and
selling it; herding animals; and visiting fairs. During slacks in the
agricultural cycle, women do spinning and knitting and make handicraft items
to supplement the income derived from sales of alpacas and their fleece.
3.        The powerful economic role played by women, who comprise about 51%
of the total population in Bolivia, is analyzed in a special report 1/ in
I/   La Situacion del Rol Social de la Mujer Rural en Bolivia, by CODEX
(consultants) October 1975, La Paz, Bolivia.



- 176 -
ANNEX 10
which it is pointed out that about 48% of women, compared to 42% of men, are
engaged in productive activities. Approximately 37% of the total female
population in the rural and marginal urban areas are mainly concerned with
looking after their household, about 32% are engaged in cultivation of crops,
and 23% have full responsibility for livestock management. In addition, they
handle about 42% of the total minor commodities sold each year in the villages,
compared to 20% by men. Women are as mobile as men in the rural areas and
both make frequent visits to urban centers to look for temporary work during
the agriculture slack and/or to sell their merchandise in urban markets. Only
about 5.5% of these surveyed came to the cities to seek medical help and/or to
look for recreation. Approximately 63% of those surveyed preferred to seek
help from the traditional herb doctors residing in their villages and they
seemed to be suspicious of services provided by university trained doctors.
About 72% of the women are illiterate, a higher percentage than the rate for
men, and most do not participate in social organizations and/or production or
marketing cooperatives, although over 50% belong to various religious groups.
Government Efforts
4.        The Government has recognized the economic and social contribution
made by women in rural areas and has organized special programs to help them
participate more meaningfully in the development process. The focus of these
programs is to teach women improved health practices, nutrition, elementary
educational courses, and basic skills. There are a variety of schemes being
implemented by a multitude of Government and private agencies, which seem to
have a grate deal of enthusiasm and zeal for their own programs, regardless of
the work of others in the field. Although the intentions of each agency are
commendable, a great deal of funds and trained manpower are wasted on unneces-
sary competition and duplication of functions. One obvious improvement would
therefore be to establish a central planning and coordination mechanism to be
exclusively responsible for women's affairs.
5.        The most important development programs for women in urban and rural
areas are being carried out by the Nutrition Division in the Ministry of
Social Security and Public Health, the National Council for Social Action
(operated by the office of the President of the Republic), and the National
Service for Community Development (sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture).
The main efforts of the Nutrition Division have been aimed at organizing mothers
for training in health, nutrition, selling and purchasing of food, and making
of handicrafts, as well as providing them with elementary education courses.
Since the initiation of its program in 1972, the Division has helped to
establish about 588 Mothers' Clubs in urban and rural areas throughout Bolivia.
Members of the clubs are given food in exchange for a monthly contribution of
not less than US$0.75 per member. The clubs open savings accounts in private
banks on behalf of their members, who are encouraged to build up savings and
earn interest on deposits. Membership in the Mothers' Clubs range from a
minimum of 15 to a maximum of 100 mothers per organization. It is estimated
that the average savings account per club amounts to about US$25 for recently
established clubs in rural areas and about US$2,400 for those in urban and



- 177 -
ANNEX 10
marginal areas which have been in existence longer. Total membership in all
the clubs organized by the Nutrition Division is estimated at 100,000 mothers.
The Nutrition Division has about 80 professionals working on this program,
assisted by experts from other institutions. The clubs serve as educational
and training centers for the mothers as well as other members of the families,
and mothers are often encouraged to form handicrafts production pre-
cooperatives as well as to purchase food in bulk. Recently, the World Food
Program signed a contract with the Ministry of Social Security and Public
Health which stipulated that basic food will be sold at subsidized prices
to club members and the earnings invested on behalf of members in profitable
enterprises on the advice of professional investment experts hired for this
purpose.
6.        The National Council for Social Action (NCSA), which began operations
in 1971, has constructed 32 service centers for women throughout Bolivia and
achieved an estimated membership of about 8,000. Beneficiaries of NCSA range
in age from 15 years to a maximum of 59 years, and they are eligible to receive
vocational training in preparation for a career; upgrading courses in health,
nutrition, elementary education, and child care; and instruction in the for-
mation of pre-cooperatives. About 450 professinals are involved in managing
the ongoing programs, with each of the 32 centers headed by a director and
supported by social promotion experts, auxiliary nurses, and doctors working
in cooperation with other particiapting institutions.
7.        The National Service for Community Development (SNDC) began its
assistance program for women in 1973 with promotional campaigns to organize
women in rural areas and to motivate them to adopt new practices in health,
home improvements, and agricultural production methods, to participate in
community-sponsored works and functions of pre-cooperatives; and to undertake
basic education courses. The program is being carried out with USAID tech-
nical assistance and is managed by SNDC's Division for the promotion of
rural women. SNDC implements its promotional and training activities for rural
women using staff from its regional centers, and local training centers in
each rural area. The regional centers are directed by a sociologist, supported
by locally recruited women specially trained to serve as promotion agents in
their villages. At present, SNDC has about 40 of these agents responsible for
training women in the formation and development of pre-cooperatives, handi-
craft production, planting of vegetable gardens, agricultural production, and
improved family care.
II. PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN UNDER THE PROJECT
Objectives and Content
8.        The proposed component would help initiate, on modest scale, a
program to help about 2,000 women living in the project area to improve their
health and nutritional home care and to better their education. The component



- 178 -
Ah-NEX 10
would also provide for training local women in handicraft production and
marketing. Since women in the project area are unusually cautious and
suspicious of outsiders because of their almost total isolation from the
rest of the country and since there is very little information about their
attitudes and particular needs, the proposed component contains funds for the
construction of five Mothers' Clubs Centers in strategic locations and
provides for the recruitment and training of talented local women to become
promotion agents. The construction of the five centers and the recruitment
and training programs would be phased so that the lessons learned in initial
efforts could be incorporated into later work.
Component Cost and Financing
9.        The estimated total cost of this component is $b 1.3 million
(US$63,250), of which $b 650,000 (US$32,500) is for construction of five
Mothers' Clubs and $b 550,000 (US$27,500) for training. No costs are expected
to be recovered under this component.
Implementation
10.       The Agricultural and Social Infrastructure Division of INFOL will be
responsible for the implementation and coordination of this component. A
sociologist/anthropologist (a woman) would be hired to organize and manage
this component under the supervision of the Chief of the Agricultural and
Social Infrastructure Division. She would be responsible for recruiting five
local women and training them as promotion agents. Upon completing the course,
the promoters would visit villages in the project area and organize women into
working groups, which would gather in the three clubs constructed under this
component. The promoters, under the supervision of the sociologist/anthropolo-
gists, would be taught how to improve health standards; practice preventive
medicine; prepare meals with high nutritional content; and make home improve-
ments. They would also be instructed in child care, basic reading, writing and
arithmetic skills; organization of production and marketing groups and asso-
ciations; and the techniques of handicraft production and marketing. The five
Mothers' Clubs would be furnished with the equipment needed to conduct the
training programs. The implementation of this component would be watched
closely by the monitoring unit in the Agricultural and Social Infrastructure
Division in Ulla Ulla.
June 11, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Women's Participation Component
Total Costs
Unit ---------------------------Years------------------    Total                            Total         Foreign         Foreign
No. of          Cost          1           2               3             4              5        Cost         Cost          Exchange        Exchange
Units       -----------------------------------------$b-------------------------- --------------             US$              %              US$
Investment Costs
Construction (5 ceniters)               5           100,000         -        500,000                                                 500,000       25,000           30             7'500
Furniture and equipment                                -            -        150,000            -             -              -                       7,500          -                -
Total investment costs                                              -        650,000            -             -              -                      32500           23             7,500
Operating Costs
Salaries - 5 promotors man-year        15           10,000          -           _            50,000       50,000          50,000    150,000          7,500          -                _
- 1 anthropologist
man-year                4           100,000         -         100,000       100,000       100,000        100,000    400-000         20,000
Total operating costs                                               -        100,000        150,000      150,000         150,000    550,000         2               -
Total baseline cost                                                 -        750,000        150,000      150,000         150,000 1O200,000          60,000          13             7,500
Physical contingencies
(10% of investment costs)                                      -         65X000           -              -              -        65X000         3,250           23              750
Total                                                 -          1530000                                                                               13            8 250
June 13, 1977
0D 2



- 180 -
ANNEX 11
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPEIENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
A. Llama Fiber Dehairing Research
Background
1.        There are about 2.2 milion llamas in Bolivia, but the absence of
suitable technology for dehairing 1/ llama raw material has inhibited large-
scale production of llama fiber. Traditionally, llama fiber has been con-
sidered inferior to that of alpaca or vicuna fiber due to heterogeneity, which
results from the presence of varying amounts of coarse hair mixed with fine,
soft fibers. The presence of these coarse fibers creates processing problems
in conventional spinning, weaving and dyeing, and gives a rough and unpleasant
texture to the fabric. For these reasons, llama fiber is used mainly for
blankets and heavy woolen fabrics, thus accounting for the relatively small
demand in the world market.
2.        Very little research has been done in Bolivia to develop a dehairing
processing technique. However, dehairing processing technology has been
developed by several countries, but the details remain a "trade secret" of
specialized firms in both the USA and Europe. The methods, which are used
largely for cashmere and camel, are based on mechanical separation by a com-
bination of carding and combing principles. A breakthrough in developing
a practical and economic dehairing processing technique would have substantial
impact on livestock production, the Bolivian wool industry and the handicraft
sector. It would also increase the animal resource base for the production
of high quality fiber by over five-fold.
3.        Studies carried out in Peru have demonstrated that there are three
types of llamas, classified according to fleece characteristics:
(a) CCARA - fiber is composed of short staples where the upper
and under-coat fibers are clearly distinguishable;
(b) LANUDO - fiber is composed of longer staples where coarse
and fine fibers are not clearly distinguishable; and
(c) INTERMEDIO - fiber texture has characteristics of both
CCARA and LANUDO and the coarse and fine fibers can be
distinguished.
1/  Mechanical process used to separate coarse hairs from the finer fiber
contained in the fleece of llama.



- 181 -
ANNEX 11
The CCARA and INTERMEDIO type offer the greatest possiblity for dehairing,
while LANUDO could be improved genetically to produce fibers similar to
alpaca. Potential production of llama fiber after dehairing is estimated
at 800 metric tons annually, based on the following assumptions:
Total llama population                          2,200,000
CCARA and INTERMEDIO poulation (50%)             1,100,000
Animals used for transport exclusively (20%)    220,000
Offspring (not suitable for shearing)              110,000
Total number of animals available for
shearing                                        770,000
Yield/animal based on annual clip                      1.5 kg
Estimated llama fiber production
(suitable for dehairing)                      1,155,000 kg
Available llama fiber after dehairing
(accounting for 30% loss)                       808,500 kg/year
4.        The potential llama fiber production, when added to alpaca fiber
production would be more than sufficient to operate the new processing plant
at full capacity (three-shift operation) and replace the acrylic and wool
yarns expected to be used by the plant in its initial years of operation. In
addition, there would be sufficient fiber to supply other plants or to sell
abroad.
Llama Fiber Dehairing Research
5.        Inasmuch as purchased dehairing processing technology could be
applied almost immediately, the project would initially make provision for the
Government and the National Institution for the Development of Wool (INFOL)
to initiate negotiations for the purchase of dehairing technology and submit
a proposal for Bank consideration not later than six months after loan signing.
6.        In the event that the dehairing technology cannot be purchased by
the Bolivians, a research program would then be established within the
country for the development of a Bolivian technology. The services of a well
established and specialized research organization would be contracted to carry
out the research program. The project would provide for a pilot processing
plant (Table 1) equipped with the necessary used textile machinery and equipment,
a complete fiber testing laboratory equipped with up-to-date instruments, and
a qualified and experienced research staff. The research facilities would be
located next to the proposed alpaca/llama spinning plant and the research
program would be carried out over a three-year period. Yarn regularity tests
would be undertaken at the proposed spinning plant; however, critical labora-
tory analysis such as protein composition, fiber friction, fiber tensile
properties and surface topography would be performed by specialized labora-
tories in Europe under contract. On completion of the research program, the
building, equipment, and machinery would be used for subsequent dehairing
operations on an industrial scale. Also, the laboratory testing equipment
would be incorporated into a central quality control testing laboratory
under INFOL for the Bolivian textile industry.



- 182 -
ANNEX 11
Research Staff
7.        A nucleus staff would be established to execute the proposed
research program.  The head of the research team, the assistance researcher,
and the mechanical engineer would be contracted from outside Bolivia. Key
personnel with the following job qualifications and estimated salaries would
constitute the research team.
Annual
Position                    Job Qualifications                 Salary (US$)
1 head of research          Senior research scientist             40,000
with proven knowledge of
fiber science, spinning
research and general
processing
I assistant researcher      Textile graduate with broad           25,000
experience in animal fiber
processing
1 mechanical engineer       Experienced in textile                30,000
machinery maintenance
and erection
I mechanic                  Experienced in textile                 5,500
machinery, maintenance,
and adjusting
1 machine operator          Some mechanical knowledge              3,500
desirable
2 laboratory technicians   Previous experience in                  4,500 (each)
textile testing desirable
Cost
8.        Total investment cost for the research program would be $b 5.1
million (US$254,450). Total operating cost would be $b 13.1 million
(US$656,250). Cost of consultant services (36 man-months) would amount to
$b 5.7 million (US$285,000). Table 2 shows the investment cost of machinery
and equipment for the pilot processing plant and facilities for the testing
laboratory; Table 3 gives the investment and operating costs for the component.
Implementation
9.        The proposed research program would be carried out by COMPRO.
Research planning and execution of day-to-day business would be the respon-
sibility fo the head of the research team.



- 183 -
ANNEX 11
10.       Implementation would be carried out over three and a half years.
The head of the research team and the mechanical engineer would be recruited
in year one, and the assistant researcher would be employed in year two.
The pilot processing plant and laboratory facilities would be built in year
two. In the initial period, COMPRO would conduct a survey to determine avail-
ability of llama resources, prepare raw material projections and formulate
a detailed research program from the development of a suitable dehairing
technique. The Planning and Monitoring Division (PM) of INFOL and the tex-
tile expert of INFOL would review the detailed research program and give
advice on research priorities.
B. Solar Energy
Background
11.       Over 60% of Bolivia's 5.6 million people live in the difficult rural
conditions of the Altiplano, where, despite average daily temperatures below
10 C, there is a very low rate of power consumption and the majority of the
people depend on non-commercial energy sources for cooking purposes only.
Fuels used in the home are those most readily available, usually consisting
of dried animal dung, grass knots, scrib twigs and roots, and firewood.
Currently, animal dung is the single most important source of energy for
household consumption in these areas, but non-commercial resources in the
rural areas are inadequate to meet household requirements, providing only for
limited cooking and no heating during the harsh winter months.  Also, the use
of dried animal dung to generate energy eliminates its use as fertilizer.
Alternative sources of energy for use in rural areas is thus of critical
importance.
12.       Solar energy is a potentially usable resource in the Altiplano, and
the Government places high priority on its exploitation and development. The
Altiplano receives high levels of solar energy, r2nging from about 400 cal/cm /
day in the winter months, to more than 600 cal/cm /day in summer, well above
the minimum limits for the economic operation of solar energy devices. The
physical conditions of the Altiplano, at an average altitude of more than
13,000 feet above sea level and with an average of 2,500 sunhours per annum,
thus make the region especially suitable for the use of solar energy as one of
the substitutes for conventional energy.
Current Work Program
13.       Bolivia has already initiated a solar energy program at the Instituto
de Investigaciones Fisicas (IDIF) of the University of San Andres in La Paz,
which is well known for its research in cosmic ray physics. A highly trained
team of experts is carrying out the work. To date, water heaters, food driers



- 184 -
ANNEX 11
and metalurgical and mineral devices using solar energy have been developed
and tested to some extent.
14.       The solar energy work program currently envisioned by the Instituto
de Investigaciones Fisicas will place emphasis on an extensive study of solar
radiation in the Altiplano, on conversion and accumulation of solar energy, and
on applied solar energy. The latter will focus on the development of simple
and low cost devices for heating, cooking, food drying, and greenhouse agricul-
ture.
Project Solar Energy Program
15.       Although IDIF has some trained personnel and a viable work program,
there is a critical shortage of funds for equipment and tools for the work-
shop and for carrying out further research and experimentation.
16.       The project would therefore strengthen local facilities and
expertise by providing financing for purchase of equipment and tools for the
workshop presently used by IDIF, and funds for the development of simple,
low-cost energy collection and utilization devices for use in the Altiplano.
It would also provide scholarship for training abroad and a solar energy
expert to assist IDIF in developing and testing solar devices that would be
economically competitive with conventional technologies and readily acceptable
in the rural areas.
Costs
17.       Total investment cost over a four-year period would be $b 1.8 million
(US$90,000). Consultant services for 12 man-months would amount to $b 1.2
million (US$60,000) (Table 4).
Implementation
18.       To implement the solar energy component, the National Institute for
the Development of Wool (INFOL) would enter into an operational agreement with
IDIF and would contract a solar energy expert to assist with the research
program, particularly in developing and testing simple and. low-cost solar
energy devices for heating, cooking, pumping, drying and greenhouse agricul-
ture. Demonstrations of the practical uses of solar energy devices would be
carried out jointly in selected areas in the Altiplano by the Agricultural
and Social Infrastructure Division (ASI) of INFOL and IDIF. In the initial
period, IDIF would conduct a survey to:
(a) collect information regarding the present energy use of
the rural population in the Altiplano, including lighting,
cooking, heating homes, heating water, and minor industrial
(workshop) or agro-industrial uses;
(b) determine additional energy needs in the rural areas;



- 185 -
ANNEX 11
(c) collect basic data regarding climatic conditions of the
Altiplano which may relate to the development of alternative
low-cost power sources; and
(d) collect information on availability and cost of materials
which might be used in the construction of simple solar
energy devices.
Solar Energy Expert
19.       The solar energy expert should have had thorough training
(preferably an advanced degree) in physics or electrical or mechanical engi-
neering, and not less than five years of practical, responsible experience
in research or development of low-cost solar energy applications, including
solar driers, cookers, and water heaters. This expert would reside in the
city of La Paz, where he would advise and assist the IDIF in the design and
implementation of solar equipment and in testing and demonstration activities
to be conducted in the Ulla Ulla project area. Specifically, he would provide
advice and assistance with respect to:
(a) collection, analysis, and documentation of all project area
climatological data;
(b) collection, analysis and documentation of data describing all
current and anticipated energy needs of the project area
(including sources and costs of energy);
(c) collection of relevant literature describing successful appli-
cations of solar energy to drying, cooking and water heating;
(d) selection from the above, adaptation of these designs and
construction of prototypes; and
(e) installation, testing, documentation of results (including
all economic aspects) and demonstration of successful appli-
cations to the local population in project area.
June 4, 1977



- 186 -
BOLIVIA                                 ANNEX  1l
Table 1
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Llama Fiber Dehairing Research
Suggested Specification for Pilot Processing Plant
Item                                                          M_2
Raw material warehouse                                         100
Opening carding room                                           200
Gilling and combing room                                       100
Spinning room                                                  100
Sample room                                                     40
Laboratory                                                      80
Offices                                                        120
Library and reading room                                        60
Meeting room                                                    40
Cafeteria, rest rooms                                           60
Workshop                                                       100
Total                                                    1,000
June 4, 1977



BOLIVIA      -  187  -                     ANNEX 11
Table 2
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         Page 1
Llama Fiber Dehairing Research
Costs of Machinery, Equipment and Laboratory Facilities
($b)
Machinery and Equipment                                               Total Cost
1 Picker or teaser                                                     120,000
1 Compact worsted card                                                 600,000
1 Gill box                                                             130,000
1 Intersecting gill base                                               140,000
humidifying  equipment                                             600,000
1 Rectlinear comb                                                      150,000
1 Wooden card                                                       1,000,000
1 Spinning frame (48 spindles)                                          90,000
1 Small press                                                           50,000
spare parts and accessQries                                         144,000
Workshop tools                                                        50,000
Subtotal                                                 3,074,000
Laboratory Facilities
1 air-conditioning unit with precision                                140,000
controls (210 C + 20, 65% RH + 2%)
1 Research microspose, complete with                                  160,000
lenses, magnification up to  2,000 x
micro - photograph attachments
1 Precision balance sensitive to 0.001 gr                               30,000
1 Micro - projector (lanameter)                                         32,000
1 Fibergraph                                                           200,000
1 Yarn dynameter (Uster)                                               240,000
1 Sonic or airflow firmness tester                                      16,000
1 Saclet extraction apparatus                                            6,000
1 Oven                                                                   5,000
3 Grass - section cutting device                                         6,000
1 Pilling test apparatus (for knits)                                    44,000



ANNEX
Table 2
Sp                    138Page 2
1 Nep tester                                                            12,000
Miscellaneous equipment for chemical                                    40,000
and net tests i.e., alkali solubility,
vegetable matter carbent, PH test, etc.
1 Office calculator                                                      3,000
subtotal                                                     934,000
Total Cost                                                 4,008,000
June 4, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVERICPiENT PROJECT
Llama Fiber Dehairing Research
Total Costs
Unit    --                                                                          Total           Total        Foreign       Foreign
No. of                Cost                            2              ar34                         5       Cost            Cost         Exchange      Exchange
Units     - -------------------------70-------------------------1 -                                                       US$            %             US$
I. Investment Costs
Rcsearch acilities
Building - m2                      1,000                  900         900,000           -               -               -           -        900,000        45,000           35         15,750
Textile machinery and                                                                                  3,074,000                                          i13,700            95        146,015
equipment                                                       3,074,000           -               -               -           -     30400            13709                        4,1
Laboratory equipment                                                  934,000           -                -              -           -        934,000        46,700           95         44.365
Office furniture and
equipment                                                         181,000           -               -               -           -        181,000         9,050           50          4,525
Total investment costs                                             5,089,000           -                -              -           -      5,089,000       254,450           83        210,6SS
II. Operating Costs
Salaries   (man-year)
Head of research                        3           1,200,000 1/       600,000      1,200,000       1,200,000      1,200,000         -     4,200,000        210,000        100        210,000
Assistant researcher                   3            1,000,000 1/          -        1,000,000       1,000,000       1,000,000        -      3,000,000       150,000         100        150,000       m
Mechanical engineer                    3            1,000,000 T/      500,000       1,000,000      1,000,000       1,000,000        -      3,500,000        175,000        100        175,000       vo
Mechanic                               3              110,000             -           110,000        110,000         110,000        -        330,000         16,500         -            -
Machine operator                       3               70,000             -            70,000          70,000         70,000        -        210,000         10,500         -            -
Laboratory testers (2)                 6               90,000             -           180,000        180,000         180,000        -        540,000         27,000         -            -
Secretary (bilingual)                  3              140,000             -           140,000        140,000         140,000        -        420,000         21,000         -            -
Janitor                                3               35,000             -            35,000          35,000         35,000        -        105,000          5,250
Sub-total                                                        1,100,000      3,735,000       3,735,000      3,735,000         -    12,305,000        615,250          87        535,000
Raw material - kg                      3,000                      40          -440,000                     40,000         40,000         -       120,000          6,000           -            -
Tests in foreign labs                                                                      30,000          35,000         35,000         -        100,000         5,000         100           5,000
Office supplies, bocks,
laboratory materials,                                                                 2000            2000           2000                      0 
utilities                                                                -           200,000         200,000        200,000         -       600,000         30,000           50         15,000
Total operating costs                                               1,i00,000       4,005,000      4,010,000       4,010,000         -    13,125,000        656,250          85        555,000
Total cost (baseline)                                                6,189,000      4,005,000      4,010,000       4,010,000         -    18,214X000        910,700           84        763,655
Physical contingencies - 10%. un
investment costs and consultants                                       619,000        320,000         320,000        320,000         -     1,579,000         78,900           94         74,186
Baseline cost and physical432008960                                                                                                                                               88526
contingencies                                                        6,808,000      4,325,000       4,330,OCO      4,330,000         -    19,793,000        989,600           84        835,296
1/ Including travel and relocatitn expenses.
June 4, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Solar Energy
Investment Costs
Unit
----------------------------Years-----------------------  Total               Total   Foreign   Foreign
No. of        Cost            1            2              3            4         5         Cost          Cost    Exchange  Exchange
Units         ___________          --------------------------$b--------------------------------    US$               /_ US$
Investment Costs
Equipment and materials                                   1,000,000         -             -              -        -      1,000,000      50,000       90        45,000
Solar energy devices                                        100,000       230,000      230,000       240,000      -        800,000      40,000       60        24,000
Sub-total                                        1,100,000       230,000      230,000       240,000      -      1,800,000      90,000       77        69,000
Technical Assistance
Expert in solar energy
man-year                      1          100,000          -        I 200 000          -             -        -             (2LO O00  60,000    100        60,000
Baseline cost                                    1,100,000   1,430,000        230,000       240,000      -      3,000,000      150,000      86       129,000       Z
Physical contingencies - 10%                                110,000       143,000      -              24 000                00 000       15 000       6        190
Total cost and physical
contingencies                                       1,210,000   1,573,000        253,000       264,000      -      3,300,000      165,000      86       141,900
June 4, 1.977
oD Z



- 191 -
ANNEX 12
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Administration
3ackground
L.        The grazing land on the Altiplano supports about 2.2 million llamas,
:300,000 alpacas and 7.5 million sheep, thus constituting an important economic
resource. The development of this resource has been lagging, however, due to
the lack of strong institutional support. In 1962, the Government established
the Bolivian Committee for Development of Wool Production, Processing and
Marketing (COMBOFLA) as an independent state enterprise under the auspices of
the Ministry of Agriculture, but it has not fulfilled its responsibilities for
the integrated development of the wool industry. Instead, it has concentrated
its work exclusively on collecting and processing alpaca/llama fleece for export,
marketing yarn to its affiliated artisans, and selling artisanal products. It
haas also mishandled the purchasing of wool from alpaca/llama owners, which has
resulted in about 50% of Bolivia's total fleece production being smuggled into
Peru, where prices are higher and there are other incentives as well to Bolivian
producers. Because of the comparatively lower price it offers, its involvement
with the artisan industry, and its failure to promote integrated development
of alpaca/llama and sheep, COMBOFLA has been steadily losing the confidence of
both the public and private sectors.
2.        The lack of a national organization responsible for improving alpaca/
liama fleece production, processing and marketing has impeded the development
of a modern alpaca/llama textile industry, has hindered expansion of export-
related production and retarded the economic development of farmers raising
alpaca/llama. The Government has now established a national institution which
will be responsible for the orderly development of the wool agro-industry
complex. Establishment of a well managed independent national institution
under the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture and the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce is essential to revitalizing the alpaca/llama textile
industry and to helping improve incomes of the rural poor on the Altiplano.
Such an institute, which would incorporate COMBOFLA, would be responsible for
the formulation of long-range integrated development strategies for the
alpaca/llama textile industry and for ensuring a supply of fleece for all the
textile plants and for Bolivian artisans. It would prepare the overall policy
and strategy for the wool industry, annual production plans, coordinate credit
and extension services required to meet production targets, and establish and
monitor wool pricing policies and allocation quotas for alpaca/llama wool for
use by farmers, textile processing firms, and artisans. Also, the newly
created national institution would be responsible for the implementation of
the proposed project, and, in the future, for projects that deal with the wool
industry.



192 
ANNEX 12
The National Institution for the Development of W4ool (INFOL)
3.        The National Inst:itutzion fox the              Gfvexient Of Wool (INFOL) has
been formed as an independent- state institute under the auspices of the Minis-
tries of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture, and Co-.nmerce and Industry with
headquarters in La Paz.  Its scope of fespo wb 7y and authority is estab-
lished by decree and statutes,  INFOL would h2   its owna organization struc-
ture, administration, operations, and f:dcs,    a scard of Directors would
be composed of one representative froimr the 1-1inistrrv of Peasant Affairs and
Agriculture (rotating chairman), Ministry of Comimerce and Industry (rotating
chairman), the Ministry of Planning and Ccord .ra `orn, t.he Mlnistry of Finance,
the Bolivian Institute for Agricultural Techriaogy (IBTA), Alpaca Wool
Processing and Marketing Company (FOTRAYIA) and the National Institute for
Handicrafts and Small Industry (INBOCPIA)  two dlaegates from private marketing
firms dealing with handicrafts; a representative from small artisan associa-
tions, and the general manager of INFOLe  In addition to reviewing policy
matters, the Board would appoint key staff of 1NF , a-pprove annual development
programs, approve budgets and work plans, and en:e effective coordination
and implementation of development programs in  t      uJmcLor,
4.        The general manager of INFOL. has bee-n ap-poi.nted. He would be
responsible to the Board of Directors for the'               implementation of
the technical and financial aspects o' t1he proposed groject. He would be
responsible for programming and control of proj eCt ob ctives and would be in
charge of day-to-day activities. He would coordLuate - ,-e hiring of staff and
consultants, participation of Government agencLes in p-.o,ect execution, and
supervision of all sub-lending operations.  INFOL's general aanager would be
supported by a deputy manager and a small core of highly qualified profes-
sionals:  four division chiefs, two economists, one f4inancial analyst, one
statistician, one veterinarian, credit and past-ure e:xper-ts and administrative
and support staff. An internationally recruited expe-rt ina addministration
and management would help INFOL's general manager coordinate the institute's
activities and manage the project (Appendix 1) 1 lie would also prepare oper-
ational manuals and train INFOL's management to use them (Appendix 1).
5.        The following key staff personnel wouldh  b  rcr-u-ited by the dates
indicated to ensure that INFOL would have adeqclate staffi-n-g to implement the
project on schedule:



- 193 -
ANNEX 12
Jan 1978        Jan 1979         Jan 1980
_________________-- No.          --------------
General manager                           1
Deputy general manager                    1
Division chiefs:
Planning and monitoring                -               I
Marketing and processing                1              -
Agricultural credit and
extension                            -
Agricultural and social
infrastructure                       1               -
Economists                               -               2
Financial analyst                                        2
Statistician                                             1
Veterinarian                                             -
Agronomist (credit and pasture)          -               -
6.        The following salaries would be offered to attract and retain
qualified staff:
Monthly Salary         Annual Salary
---------------- b$ ---------------
General manager                               30,000                420,000
Deputy general manager                        20,000                280,000
Division chiefs:
Planning and monitoring                     14,000                196,000
Marketing and processing                    14,000                196,000
Agricultural credit and
extension                                 14,000                196,000
Agricultural and social
infrastructure (in Ulla Ulla)            25,500                357,000
Economists (2)                                14,000                196,000
Financial analyst                             14,000                196,0vG
Statistician                                  14,000                196,000
Veterinarian                                  14,000                196,000
Agronomist (credit and pasture)               14,000                196,000
Functions
7.        INFOL would have five divisions, as follows (Chart 1):  Planning and
Monitoring (PM), Marketing and Processing (COMPRO), Agricultural Credit and
Extension (ACE), and Administration in La Paz, and Agricultural and Social
Infrastructure (ASI) in Ulla Ulla. ACE would prepare and monitor investment
programs designed to improve the production quality of alpaca/llama fiber.
To ensure an adequate supply of alpaca/llama fleece for the artisan and tex-
tile industry, ACE would promote credit among farmers and make arrangements
for provision of credit and extension services to farmers in Oruro and Potosi



- 194 -
ANNEX 12
that would complement ASI's development activities in Ulla Ulla under the
project. ACE would also be responsible for promoting the introduction of
courses relating to alpaca/llama and sheep developmernt irn the -niversity in
La Paz, Oruro and Potosi and for coordinating training programs at the La
Raya Experiment Station in Peru.
8.        INFOL's PM would collect data and prepare annual wool production
forecasts and estimates of demand for fiber and yarn, and, on the basis of
such information, would establish quotas for textile and handicraft users
and formulate minimum selling and purchasing prices for fiber and yarn. PM's
production and demand forecasts would be based on past production trends,
taking into account the new processing capacity and production of fiber under
project conditions. With this information, PM would prepare annual allotment
lists that would be used by COMPRO to plan its annual processing programs and
by the Marketing Division for its purchasing schemes for alpaca/llama fiber
and for selling fiber and yarn to artisans and industrial users. PM would
also prepare marketing information and brief trade bulletins containing up-to-
date information about alpaca/llama development programs in Bolivia and Peru,
research, textiles, fashions, and prices for fiber and yarn in Bolivia, Peru,
Europe, USA and Asia. It would review with INBOPIA, the Export Promotion
Division (FOMEX) in the Central Bank and the Ministry of Tourism, the projected
demands for handicrafts for the domestic and export markets to determine
production and processing levels for fiber and yarn. In the future, all
requests for construction of new processing plants or expansion of existing
capacity would require the approval of INFOL's general manager and the recom-
mendation of PM's Division Chief. PM would also monitor the overall progress
of the project and other development programs and preparation of new projects
for eventual implementation by INFOL.
9.        COMPRO would take over existing COMBOFLA facilities and assume full
responsibility for the collection, sorting, packing and selling of fiber and
yarn to artisans and industrial users. It would purchase all fiber (clean and
dirty) at comparable prices to those prevailing; use the same weight measure-
ment (pound) as applied in Peru; and pay cash to farmers for raw materials.
COMPRO would be responsible for purchasing fleece from producers and for
storing, sorting and transporting it from collection points in the countryside
to the storage facilities in El Alto near La Paz. The Division would also be
responsible for establishing and maintaining an efficient grading and quality
control system. Staff from the COMPRO would be located in La Paz, Oruro,
Potosi and Cochabamba, where they would operate small stores selling fleece
and yarn according to quotas and prices established by PM. Proceeds from
the sales would be used to finance the cost of purchasing fleece from producers,
and administrative costs of the Division, and any surplus would be used to
support the stabilization fund.
10.       ASI, with headquarters in Ulla Ulla, would have five units staffed
by Bolivian experts who would be directly responsible for the implementation
of the Ulla Ulla Integrated Development Project: the Commercial Farm, the
Experiment Station and Vicuna Reserve; Credit and Extension; Monitoring and
Evaluation; and Administration and an ad hoc committee. ASI's staff including



- 195 -
ANNEX 12
consultants working in the project area would receive training in Aymara
under the guidance of the specialist who would be responsible for the
education component of the project. Given the remoteness of the project area
'-rom the main centers of population and the harshness of living conditions in
:he area--the compensation program for the staff in Ulla Ulla would be made
considerably more attractive than in traditionally offered in Bolivia. ASI's
chief would have overall authority and responsibility for execution of project
work in the project area, reporting directly to INFOL's general manager.
Specifically, he would be responsible for reviewing and approving the annual
work programs submitted to him by the five units; clear the annual budgets and
work program documents with INFOL's general manager and present them to Board
meetings; coordinate and supervise implementation of the project; and appoint
the chiefs for the five units. In addition, he would be responsible for
supervising and coordinating the social components of the proposed project.
Each of the social components would be managed by a specialists, who would
*prepare annual action programs for the approval of ASI's chief.
11.       The Commercial Farm.  The chief of the commercial farm would have
practical experience in livestock operations and in administration and would
be responsible for implementing this component; preparing annual investment
and work plans for the farm; hiring and supervising the work of local labor
on farm; purchasing and selling the farm's alpacas and llamas; and preparing
a program to demonstrate to local farmers the benefits of applying pasture
rotations, utilization of veterinarian services, and introduction of improved
range and alpaca breed management. Also, he would coordinate the farm's
programs with the work of the Experiment Station.
12.       The Experiment Station and the Vicuna Reserve.  The chief of the
Experiment Station would be a professional with practical experience in
managing an Experiment Station in Bolivia or elsewhere. His principal res-
ponsibilities would be to initiate preparation of annual investment and
research work programs, establish priorities, coordinate and supervise the
work of the technical staff of the stations, and report to ASI's chief about
the progress of implementation. In addition to his responsibilities for
implementing the vicuna conservation program, he would also supervise imple-
mentation of the experimental irrigation component under the project.
13.       Credit and Extension.  The chief of this unit would be highly
qualified professional with practical banking experience and with a strong
background in agricultural extension. His main responsibilities would be to
prepare annual programs to help project beneficiaries obtain the necessary
technical assistance and credit for investment, supervise and coordinate
the work of the technical staff, and promote the project among the benefi-
ciaries. The extension and credit experts of the unit would assist partici-
pating farmers in the preparation of farm plans and applications for sub-loans.
14.       Monitoring.  This unit would have a staff of two professionals--an
agricultural economist and an anthropologist sociologist--working full-time
on collecting and interpreting progress of the project in Ulla Ulla. The
staff would report directly to ASI's chief. Information collected to fill



1 196 -
ANNEX 12
as well as influence design and preparatJo,n Of proj ects with similar
components for the Alt- lano. Data                       1-io-   te dIrected towards
providing project management with rapid feedback to permit appropriate modi-
fications to be made and towards enabling an evaluation of how well the chosen
strategy is achieving basic project obectives-aa) to imorprove the welfare of
the rural poor; and (b) to provide a model for further development efforts.
Cross-section and time-series data would measure welfare cha-ages by looking at
per capita incomes, health, income distribution, and other such indicators.
Information would be collated according to the means used to effect these
changes:  (a) improvement of livestock husbandlry; lb' formulation of buying/
selling tactics for inputs/outputs; and (c)                o'o;Sion OL social infrastructure,
increased participation by women in the project, improved production and
marketing of handicrafts made by local farmers, and applicability and
acceptance by farmers of solar energy applianlces produced under the project.
Types of information collected would be:
(a) Sociological: number of users of healt h services and changes
in nutrition, family incomes, wowen's participation in project
and the social impact oF the project;
(b)  Financial:  prices paid and received at the farm and group
level, costs and returns Lor producticve investmtents, on-farm
consumption, costs of services provided and recovery of costs,
and credit data;
(c)  Technical:  the effect on fertility and mortality rates of
improved techniques, breeding program, vicuna coniservation,
and the like; and
(d)  Organizational:  formation and participation of gfroups
(number of groups, number of members, administrative per-
formance, operating results, adequacy of records) and
effectiveness of technical assistance structure (procedures,
technician/group ratio, arnd such.).
15.       Administration.  The chilef of this uni v -wou d 'De an experienced
manager with a background in agricultural operations.  The unit would pro-
vide all the administrative support to each of the operation units to ensure
successful project implementation, maintaining b5ildings and storage places,
providing transportation for project staff, 'handling the bookkeeping, and
other similar tasks.
16.       Ad Hoc Technical Committee. The committee would be established in
the project area as an advisory body to coordinate the programs undertaken by
the project, review annual investment plans, agree on a common approach for
the implementation of the project, and resolve any outstanding issues which
might arise between the participation farmers and project management. ASI's
chief will chair the meetings of the Committee.  In adtiono to the above
mentioned Unit Chiefs two representati-ves of proj3ect beneficiaries and two



- 197 -
ANNEX 12
women from the project area would also attend as elected delegates, who would
serve one-year terms. The meetings of the Committee will be convened at the
request of the chairman.
Cost and Cost Sharing
17.       The cost of establishing INFOL (all of which would be cash cost),
including rent, salaries, vehicles, office equipment and one consultant for
INFOL, would be $b 19.9 million (US$1.0 million) over the five-year project
period (Table 1). Recurrent costs (also all cash), starting at $b 4.2 million
(US$210,000) in the sixth year and decreasing gradually thereafter, would be
borne fully by the Government.
December 8, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Institution for the Development of Wool (INFOL)
Total Cost
----------------------------------Years-----------------------------            Total           Total        Foreign        Foreign
1              2              3                4                5             Cost            Cost        Exchange       Exchange
--------------------------------------------$b------------------------------------------    US$                  %             US$
Lnvestment Costs
Vehicles (2)               320,000           -               -                -               -               320,000        16,000         95           15,200
Furniture                  269,000           -               -                -               -               269,000        13,450         43            5,847
Office equipment           135,000           -              -                 -               -               135,000         6,750         65            4,387
Administration and
management expert      600,000        1,200,000         600,000                           -            2,400,000       120,000        100
Sub-total      1,324,000        1,200,000          600,000          -               -             3,124,000       156,200         93           145,434
Dperating Costs
Salaries                 1,096,200       1,304,520       3,528,600        3,528,600       3,528,600       12,986,520        649,326         -              -
Rent and utilities         250,000         250,000         250,000          250,000         250,000        1,250,000         62,500         -              -
Office supplies            300,000         300,000         300,000          300,000         300,000        1,500,000         75,000         50           37,500         o
Vehicle, maintenance
and operating
costs                     80,000          80,000          80,000           80,000          80,000          400,000         20,000         15            3,000
Miscellaneous                                                                60,000 60,000                    300,000        15000          -               -
Sub-total         1,786,200       1,994,520        4,218,600       4,218,600       4,218,600        16,436,520       821,826           5           40,500
Baseline cost            3,110,200       3,194,520       4,818,600        4,218,600       4,218,600        19,560,520       978,026         19          185,934
Physical contingencies .
(10% on investment)   _132,400            120,000          60,000                            -              312,400         15,620         70           14,543
Total cost including
physical contin-
gencies                32~42 600       3,314,520      4,878,600        4                4,218,600        19,872,920       993,646         20          200,477
July 12, 1977
hmX



- 199 -
BOLIVIA
ANNElX 12
Ul,l.A tlLLA l)liVILOPMENT PROJECT                                       Table 2
Pro jec t Staf f
No. of Staff
--Years--------                         Responsible
1       2       3       Total          Agency  _          Reference
Research and Extension
Research                                         1       3        -         4             ASI                Annex 1
Laboratory technicians                           -       2        2         4
Extension agents                                 1       6       -          7
Farm manager                                     -       I       -          I
Laborers and herders                             -      15      10         25
Sub-total                                     2      27      12        41
Vicuna Conservation  Program                                                                 ASI                Annex 3
Guards                                           6       -       -          6
Wool Collection, Storage and Processing                                                     COMPRO/INFOL        Annex 4
Collection:
Agents                                        -       4       -         4
Driver                                       -        1       -         1
Warehouse:
Manager                                       -       1       -         I
Supervisors                                  -       2        -         2
Administrative staff                         -        3       -         3
Guards                                       -        2       -         2
Drivers                                      -       2        -         2
Laborers                                     -       6        -         6
Processing:
Plant manager                                -       I        -         1             COMPRO             Annex 4
Textile engineer                             -       1        -         1
Sales manager                                -       1       -          1
Office manager                               -       1        -         1
Administrative staff                         -      12        -        12
Technical staff                              -    111         -       111
Sub-total                               -    148         -       148
Handicraft
Training monitors                              15       -        -        15             FOMO               Annex 5
Textile engineer                                 1      -        -         I             INBOPIX            Annex 5
Designer                                         1      -        -         1
Marketing specialist                             I      -        -         1
Promotors                                       4       -        -         4
Sub-total                              22      -         -        22
Health
Physician                                       2       -        -         2             MPSSP/DPH          Annex 7
Auxillary nurse                                 2      -         -         2
Community health workers                       30      -         -        30
Sub-total                              34      -         -        34
Education                                                                                   ASI/Project        Annex 9
Supervisor                                      1      -         -         I             Unit of the
Driver                                           1      -        -         1             Education and
Sub-total                               2      -         -         2             Vocational
Training
Project
Women Participation                                                                         ASI                Annex 10
Anthropologist                                  -      1         -         1
Promotors                                       -      -        5          5
Sub-total                                -      1        5          6
Llama Dehairing                                                                             COMPRO             Annex 10
Mechanic                                        -      1         -         1
Machine operator                                -      1         -         1
Laboratory technicians                          -      2         -         2
Administrative and support staff                -      2         -         2
Sub-total                                -      6        -          6
Project Administration (INFOL)
General manager                                 1      -        _
Deputy general manager                          1      -        -
Division chiefs                                 4      -        -          4
Economists                                      2      -        -          2
Financial analyst                               2      -        -          2
Veterinarian                                    -      I         -         I
Agronomist                                      -      I        -          I
Administrative and support staff               14      -        -         IA
Sub-total                                24      2        -         26
Total                                    90   184        17        291
September 7, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF WOOL (INFOL)
BOARD Or DIRECTORS
| GENERAL MANAGER
DEPUTY GENERAL MANA(;ER
ADMINISTRATION AND
MANAGEMENT EXPERT        S 73
(INTERNATIONAL)
rI-.C Ui IUF A_CRtJ L 1 1 t  j   Pl.ANNING AND   |      ADMINISIRAFE(N       I   MRJ       AND 
IjlVIS01'AND EXTLHSlUNj N     DIViSIDN                    D                             DI  LIVIS'IOJ  0 c S'S IE.S.S ' I  ID'> IN  |
IN ULLA ULA,.A
AGRICULTURAI AND
SOCIAL. INFnASTRUCTL JrW
K       DJVISION
COIAIMITTEL                     MDNITOR11NG AND
.. , . \ 9 .  t w~,;R~.i4i....... 1i EALllA 10!\
t   UN
EXPERIMENT STATION I
COMMERCIAL FAi               ADMINISTRATION AAND                                  CREDIT AND EXTENSION
U!9,T I I                  UNIT      ,_        | VICUNA RESERVE UNIT                UNIT
EDUCATION AND WOMEN
ArFAIRS UNIT
World Bank-17638



- 201 -
ANNEX 12
Appendix 1
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Administration
and Management Expert
1.        The management and administration expert should have a strong
academic background and the necessary practical experience in organizing and
administering entities engaged in livestock and textile development. The
expert should have managed by himself or served as top adviser in a company
with outstanding reputation in working with livestock and textiles. The
expert should have at least five years of relevant experience and he should
be able to show, among other things, that he played important roles in
organizing enterprises, recruiting staff, preparing operational manuals, and
devising training and career development programs. Preference should be given
to recruiting a specialist who has also worked with livestock and textiles in
Latin America for at least one year. The expert should be able to read,
write and speak Spanish. He will work as a special adviser, reporting
directly to INFOL's General Manager and assisting him in the following tasks:
(a) establishment of the operational and administrative divisions;
(b) recruitment of staff for key positions and preparation of their
Terms of Reference;
(c) establishment of an annual and five-year planning and introduction
of an overall monitoring system for the project;
(d) preparation of annual work programs, their implementation and
follow-up;
(e) preparation of annual budgets;
(f) development of training programs;
(g) preparation of guidelines for, and the establishment of a staff
career development program;
(h) preparation of operational manuals and training of staff in
their use in the daily work; and
(i) preparation of concrete proposals to coordinate implementation
of all project components with participating agencies.
June 28, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investment Cost Phasing
($b '000)
------------------------Project Year -- -                 -
1             2             3                4               5           Total
Livestock Component
Project facilities               18,612        20,309          12,945          9,915           9,915          71,696
Commercial farm                     735          -              1,960             -              -             2,695
Credit                              -            -              6,315         13,425          10,260          30,000
Vicuna conservation                 686            232            160             160            160           1,398
Sub-total                 20,033         20,541         21,380          23,500         20,335         105,789
Collection storage and
Processing                       12,481        71,125          20,257             -              -          103,863
Handicraft
Credit                            6,570         8,854           8,282           8,282          8,012          40,000
INBOPIA (administration)          5,916         4,662           3,212           1,982          1,722          17,494
FOMO (training)                   1,237            855            718             718            _             3,528
Sub-total                 13,723         14,371         12,212          10,982           9,734         61,022
Roads                               11,032          6,388             319            319             319         18,377
Health                               3,080          1,193          1,310           1,310           1,377          8,270
Water supply and waste
disposal                             873          1,992          2,052           2,112          2,172           9,201
Education                           10,730            339             339            339             339         12,086
Women's participation                   -             815             150            150             150          1,265
Llama dehairing                       6,808         4,325           4,330          4,330             -           19,793
Solar energy                         1,210          1,573             253            264             -            3,300
Administration (INFOL)                3,243         3,314           4,879          4,219           4,218
Total                        83,213       125,976          67,481         47,525          38,644        362,839
1/   Base cost plus physical contingency.
October 18, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project Costs ($b '000)
Foreign
- - - - - - - - -  Project Years - - - - - - - - - - -           Total        Exchange
1            2            3            4            5         Costs        _____
Civil works                               21,121       23,098           523          523          523       45,788          32
Corrals and fencing(commercial farm)          670            -            -            -            -          670           52
Livestock purchase                              -                     1,420            -            -        1,420          52
Equipment                                 29,337       42,382         2,394        1,724        1,258       77,095           78
Furniture and office equipment             1,401         2,359           35            -            -        3,795           51
Vehicles (27) 1/                           2,690 (16)  2,520 (11)         -            -            -        5,210           95
Training                                   1,385         1,189          685            -            -        3,259           -
Consultant services                        2,800        11,500        6,340        3,200            -       23,840          100
Credit                                     6,570        8,854        14,597      .21,708       18,217       70,000          48
Design and maintenance(roads)               1,677          240          290          290          290        2,787           15
Other investment 2/                             -          855            -            -            -          855            -
Operating costs                            9,503       25,008        39,480       19,344       18,358      111,693            9
Total baseline cost                     77,154      118,005       65,764        46.789       38,700      346,412
1/  Figures in brackets indicate number of vehicles purchased.
2/ Includes miscellaneous investment from the water supply and
waste disposal component as well as labor and other expenses
prior to plant start-up from the collection, storage and
processing component.                                                                                                   < 3
October 18, 1977                                                                                                               -p.



-204-
0062014 
2612 ULU.  M-nlrsnT  PR0022Tabe
C-c i-l Fans5
Corralaaolfeo-ot                                 670              -          -            -         -          6700          $
OLiesSo-k                                           -            -       1,4200                              1,420           52
Oqoipsant                       -             -         ~~~           ~     ~ ~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~57  -    -  0 52 -
Oprnolc.ts                                          3             3          6           57       264          313           52
Sob-total                         ~~~~             ~~~~~~~673  3  1,483    50       064        2Z,45           52         Ans1, Table 9.
04th  _ar.                                       3500        8,696                                         .....1,19         27
690i -t                                        9.4          39.83            -                               960             9
Paotr   n   ffice eqopees                           1~,414          -            -          -       140             3
OtbsloetSb/                                                     3            -                      -           55            -
Conaoltantearoioea   -   -        2.300          -:            -      .  -       ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~2,300  100
Crai.i.                                     -.t  i           28044-                                            444            -
11,346       63,595    200,75               -         -.   4    .l.      
Oatdioraft Credit                                6,530         8,050~  4,202            8,282     0,012                        is0~ 1      hoe5. Table 9.
Cr-dit to  . art. ad Cohnibies             --                              6b, 31      13,425   '4460         3O,00i            55         An-a  2, Table 24.         -
Poodoctioaitosetseot Sb-total             28.509        74.452     36.200       22.22      10-220      i6b~A678          47
Ohoil sock                                      89,9         7,812           -                       -       971- 1636
Eqoipeets                         ~~~~~~          ~~~~~5,534  029      022    -76 03                             0
toa-itorerndoffi-seqoip-r                           - -        03            3            -          -         030           43
Vehlrbe..                                      ,1,20           040           -            --                 2,000           95
Tre-ioo                                                        60          50                        -       1,370          --
CoeUtor   11               -- -2 020                                  1,440            -          -       2,160          100
Oprting7onet                                                              'O43030460  9005-9913  9915b3.613            
OSob-tol                                     10,1 7~051    19t,14     12,660        9,91       9,915      60,669            2           ma  lb~3
cinieoks240                                                       -          -            -          -         240           95
Vabiolec III                         2~~      ~     ~~          ~      ~ ~~~~60  - - -  -          160           30
foamier                              ~~~           ~~~          ~ ~ ~~~~~~60  600                 120            -
t5aie.sat                            ~~~            ~~          ~     ~     ~     ~~~~~10  6  - - - 24            5          
Ossa.t..    orae                                  160            60         11           61        10           80             4
Sob-tto ..30                                                 22.10                     0        160o     -12,404           10         300    , Table 1.
nabiclas  113                       ~~~~            ~~~~~              ~~250  -  - -               0320          93
aqc,hpsarr  t                       ~~~~ ~~~~~~~4355  220    ~ 22          2 26                 1,135            lb
Sob-nonal                     1,366           03~~~~~~~~~~:'2  -06-   696                    ,1             13 5           r  5, Table 7.
Civil sari                                     2,332         5,$62           -                                ,919             5
E.t0                                            :O020                                                        6,000           95
asalji                             ~~~~~~            ~~ ~       ~~~~1.677  .                     1,670-            -
Oaiot.aaaoe -                       -          ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~240  290  .  290        290         .10            15
Sob-canal               -        00,~~~~~~18029  5,8000       290          290       20         6,100           37         A- nr  6, Table 3.
Civil -rbs                                        900         -              --                                 0            35
Eqaipesa    3                                  4,008                                                         4.  - .10080    95
ronioaaoffi_rcqocp-on                       le,     ~       -                                             102           5
ioesc.t   31                            1,0           3.200-    3.200          5 ,200    . 2         10,700          100
nob-tonal                         0,~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~189  4,005.    4,01    4..,0      - -        1,24      ~       04 a,              11, TabOc 3.
Eqipanad -asrials                            1,100            230        330          240          -       1,000            00
to (lao111                                             1.,200     --                - --                .              0
lobtrnl                                      0100          1,30          2-30'        240         -        3oo             96          ArH1,Tbc4
ftodoocivs.oprnrt Sob-notal    -   ~~36,173       31.440      180503       15,311    10.365       1-t1.343          36
Cill  noa-                                        643             -           -            -         -          643           30
Vebile  121                                       320            I--                      -          -           2             3
Eqoipsen                                          394        V                            -          -         394           39
__a_ig                                            450       -    -            -                                 431            -
Portinocs                         -   0~     ~      ~~          ~      ~    ~           ~     ~~~~~6  -  - - 66   0
Operaing cos ta                                 0,042         1.193      1,3101.      1.III      .1.307       6.232           10
lob-nonal                        ~~~~~~       ~~~2,936  1,13  ,1013 1       0      237        -726    -         2            A-   7. Tabla 1.
Ciilsrk                                           233           5 23       523-         523        323       2,323           .24
Eqoipeot sod sateria1                             559        1,259       1,258        1,258     1,258        3,391            20
Opertonea-                                          3             03         93          152 -  213             494           25
Sob-consa                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~95   1,004  1,004       1,933     1.994        9,410           23          5sav   TeOb2-  34 4.
tdocation
Civil scs- 6,354                                                  -                                           ,354 ~          30
eqoiast          -1,403                                           -                                  -       .,403-           46--
vrin3ft                                        -   74                                                          8       74      -
Oebio2- 011                                       160             -                        -         -          S            1oo
Oprai~ cases                                      339            339        339          339 -   336'         1.694           12
Sob-tonal                                    9,783           339         339          339   -338          11,140     -     33          Oor  9, Table 4.
Cinilsarie                      -           300           -           ~~         ~     ~    ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~-  -  500-  30
foroltoreandeqoioaect               -          ~~~~         ~~150  --           -               15             - 
oprsior crt                                                      0           3            3         5            50            -
Sob-nasl                                          -           50         150          130 -  150-          L,200    -      13          A-   10e TabIa I.
Social iafv- - -cat    ab-aonl                  13,514          4,090       3,674-    3,7332       3.864       28.676           26
Osila   21                                  320              -                       -          -         320           95
Offic  eqaipeort                                   75             -75 -                                          0            60
ooosabs        - a ..i.a                        1,10         2,400       1,306          200          -         ,00 100 to
OprnAgcon                               4,271         2,022      L01203        1.7t2     1.022       1. 559            20
nob-tonal                         3~~~~ ~ ~~~~,766  4,422  3,02         1,'962     1,722       16,054           50         inte  S. Tale  S.
Vabirtse  (23  -     -               ~~~~            ~~         ~~~~320  - -  -          -         320           95
Forni_    -dsa   ffoo-eqaiOn-                     404             -           -.           -         -          404           51-
C-slta-   020                                     600         1 200        600                       -       2,400          I10
Operting  orat                                 1.086-         1.994       4,219       4.209      4.2 19      16.430             3
Sob-tOne1                        ~~~~~~~~~3,13I0 - 3,194   4,019-    4,219         4,219       1956             19          4A-s  12e Table 1,
Aoiitretio  Sob-totl                          8.976         7.616       79011        0.181     5 3941      36.313           -33
Ttota  baslia cost                               07,132       117.604      05,963       40,990    30 701      346.412    -       41
3/Inclode   $3 3.1 ailion fon ose ,eipeent.
Otnb-r 10 19077



- 205 -
ANNEX 15
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year and Quarter                                          at End of Quarter
Us$ '000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                                         200
December 31, 1978                                                       1,000
March 31, 1979                                                          2,300
June 30, 1979                                                           3,600
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                                      4,900
December 31, 1979                                                       6,200
March 31, 1980                                                          7,800
June 30, 1980                                                           9,500
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                                     10,500
December 31, 1980                                                      11,500
March 31, 1981                                                         12,200
June 30, 1981                                                          12,900
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                                     13,600
December 31, 1981                                                      14,300
March 31, 1982                                                         15,000
June 30, 1982                                                          15,600
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                                     16,200
December 31, 1982                                                      16,800
March 31, 1982                                                         17,400
June 30, 1982                                                          18,000
July 22, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULIA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolart feet Flow
(Sb '000)
lnfloM                                                           1         2         3         4         5         6          7         8         9        10        11        12        13        14        15        16         17        18        19        20                  TorOl
Withdrawals from iDA Credit aod Bark Loot
Non .r-dit ope.ati.o.                                      55,380   42,752   36,484   35,532   19,525               -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -                    -         -         -         -         -         -               189,673
Livsta-k credit                                                                  2,439    9,629   18,288            -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -                30,356
Handi-reft credit                                           5,182    7,827    8,166    8,954    9.515               -         -         -         -         -                             _         _          _         _         _ -  -    -                                    39,644
Credit for collection, stora-g    d pro.ees.ig              11.376   68.565   20.386           -          -         -                                                                                                                                                            100.327
Sb-t 171_938  119,144   67.475   54_5   473                                                                   7.3                               -         -         -28                                                                                                        360.000
Oosort,oott Coorribotiors
Nan credlt oparati-os                                       170750   13,667    11,120    10,494    4,462            -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -                   -         -         -7,493
Liveotonk credit                                                 -         -    1,148    4,532       8,606          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -                14,286
Hendi-raft credit                                            2,439     3,683     3,843    4,214    4,478            -         -         -         -         -         -         -         _          -                   -                                                        18,657
Credit for colleotton, stor-ge and proco.siog                2_436   18.508    9.594                                                                                                  -                                                                                           30 136
Sob-total                                                22.625   35,858   25.705   jj,449   1734i   ____                             -                                                 -         -          -262-  5 2751_4.940 17,546                                        120=9_4
Aasortlatioo of Slb-loans
Livestock credit                                                 -              -             -           -       96     1,874    4,258    5,644    6,545         7,325    8,210      7,192     3,298          -         -         -         -         -          -               44,642
Handioraft  -redit                                             177    1,567    3,498    5,725    8,399   10,931    10,191    8,337            6,130    3,346          -         -          -         -                   _         -                   _ -                        58,301
Credit f-r collection, oto-ogo sod processing                    -         -          -                        2  520    2,520    5.040    6_300   12 600   15120 15 15,020   22,680   25,200    23,765                  -                   -        -           -              130_865
Slb-toteS                                                    177 _      3.16     490 5,72    5     8,399    13.547   14.585   17,635   1  274   22 491   22,445   23,330   29,872   28  90   23 ,765                   -         -         - _                 -               233 808
Irt-roRt 00 Sob-loans (122. p.o.)
Livestook  credit                                                -         -       215    1,279    3,766       5,356    5,345    5,120    4,611    3,900          3,123     2,243     1,258        395         -         -         -          -         -         -                36,611
Handicraft credit                                              915    2,263    3,491    4,617    5,572    5,602           3,206    2,007    1.040         346         -                                        -         -         -                                               29,059
Credit fotrcolloction, storage crd pro.e.steg                    -          -   16.642   16.642   16.642   16.642   16.340   16.037   15_432               14,676   13_164   11.350    9,536   6_34        3,790         -          -              . .                            173,707
Sob-total                                                   915    2,263   20,348   22.538   25,980   27.600   24,891   23_164   21, 83   18,922   16,287   13.593   10.794 ,420 9    3,790                           -_                  -         -         -               239.377
Terol inflow                                                ss 158.832   117.D26  101.618    99,253   41.147   39,476   40,799   39 357   41,413   38,732   36,923   40.666   3,7D                      7,555          -         -         -         -         _               954 159
Non Crrdit Onecotioro                                         73,130   56,420   47,604   46,026   23,986              -         -         -         -                                                                                                                               247,166         a
Credit Ocer tior-
slb-lo-n  for ltiostoel dnoelopot                                -         -    3,587   14,161   26,894             -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -                44,642
Sob-loose for handicrafe                                     7,621    11,510   12,009   13,10B   13,993             -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         _                58,301
Slb-loses for rolle ctior,  tororge and pro-es.oig          13_812   87,073   29,980            -         -                                                                                                                                                                       130.865
Orb-tat-l                                                 21,433   98,583   45,576   27_329   40,887              -         -         -         -         -      _             -         -      _            -         -          -         -         -      _                  233.808
Marefos Ratofeed by
c-eitcl Bark 3/                                                 19        47        77       123        195       228       178       148       118        88        65         4/        26         8         -          _         _         _                   _                 1,367
BAB 4/                                                           -         -        36       212       628       892        890       854       769       650       520       374        210        66         -         _          _         _         _         _                 6,100
005/                                          ~~~~      ~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~206  707    1.091    j4  1,741    1.751    1,002  627  325      108          -         -                                                                                -                 92.231
Sob-totol                                                    305       754    L,204        t       2.564     2,871    2,070    1,629    4254 1           4-6      585       421        236        74                   -                  _         _         _
Crodif/Loar 0061 Scrvice
AOortsoo- ion 6/                                                -         -          -              -         -         -              -          -         -      900       900        900       900       900       900       900        900       900       900                 8,000
S.rsie chacge 7/                                              135       493       843     1,071     1,261     1,350      1,350     1,350    1,350      1,350     1,350    1,350      1,350    1,350       1,350     1,350     1,350     1,350    1,350       1,350                24,053
0,0k 1000
Cowil-oee  fee 8/                                           1,181       859       507       779         92         -         -         -                                                                                 -         -         -         -         -                 2,918
Ao-rtlisti- 9/                                                  -         -          -         -             12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000    12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000    17,000    12,000   12,000    12,000   12,000   12.000   12,000                            100,000
Intee      0                                                  719    5261    8,035  1,             13,454   1i,160   13,200   12,240 11,280    2                 9 360    8,400    7,440    619,70    15,52    24456    3460            2,640    17680         720               151.452
lob-edo0                                  ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~20_35    6,613   19 343   1275 14,807   27_510   26.550   25,590   24_630   2360    23,ill   22_650   2160 20,730   19,770   10,010   17,850   10,890   15_930   14,970                               2a5
TotaS o,flow                                           96,903  162,920  104,727   07,900   02,244    30 381   28,620   27.219    75,841   24 516   04,195   23,071'i1                        ,22042    2424  0,8041       19,778 18,810   16,890   13,930    14,970           064 945
Gensh balance                                           -1,240   -3,530   12,299   13,710   17,009 ,6    10,056    13,500   03,516   16,807   14,537    13,152                    187411  937i4537 13-852   18,740   14_90317.050  -16,090  -151930  -14,970                    821
1/ Including centingentio.
21 IDCrdA   ofS09 millIon ord look 1oo of 0029nlio.es
3/ 1/4%. oo overage oerotoding bol.ooe-  of lioestock rod hoodieroft sob-loo., .. .co.e. .dnlraratioo cools.
4/ 27. or orecoge oi.standiog balareas of li- etoek .s6-loss 10 co-ec odoioisf000te roots.
5/ 3-3/4% os avcrige oo   -ornding bela.ees of Oondl.ra..   sob-loses, to ervec adsirioLciiOOcost. and fliaoeiol   Ii eke.
6/ 1/2%  of loo_n anoint
7/ 3/4% or prioelipI .ooo.r of Credit niekdrooe and solesoodlof.
b/ 3/4% os        C averge  ,odlrburr-d boo bolo-ee.
9/ 20 year rotorsty, irelodieg fi e-y-or 81000 period (30 equ0l s                    i-e.tiaol looal lmer.l).
10/ 8% per arose on oaerage o-      toodlodg lean balance.
D-eo,ber 8, 1977



ANNEX 17
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA D EVELOPMENT PROJECT
AE1, S1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 I JIplmnttin   cedleI
111E  I lEIEL.-NT      ~          ~          I                                                                                                                                                     19                                                   91
0..., *9,1.,,                      O.o.* l1,91*,,                                                                                                                   1
-.9,,., 1 ,O       --,9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -- --- -
9,11.1 1~~~~9 114 09,111991N'.
I,1,I9 9- III          -  E9                                     *911190.
E,l~9~,,                                                     9.90
LI    IL.,,1  l9  9,,1 l,l                              91  A9C
9 1111 111~~ 9,,,12,111,91             99,89
2191-  E    ,,1,9.,  19O.19l9911                              951   912I-                                                                                                                                                                                              
WOOL CO.LECrlON. 9909*09  299 99009991U*            :1pi!
0,,A' -.098190                                                                                                                                            I                                         -     -                                
9., 99,1*119119                                  *09'980,-1E 80l  S
9991 T-O9~9I*990~I
9.,1,9,,,*,,   S- 099*                                    1811,9M
9,9*, 992911.1114,9,,91110 911L91,l4 9.9*,       18091
......... E.,o,.,                                               -l
*1       -19119 l,09                                                                                                                            -         !              I      .S                   *          S.".O 
*.919 9,9E         92WSI9  PSL89   II
91,1119091E--,
11,991 *1.9, 119191E -A1991                                                                                                                                                                  -                                                                            - 
.9079997 9*99 919*1101,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al    9 
99191191911111,9 1992.1191 1-.                          2E, 9-, P,
A,,1*219   9 ,99 C-10911 



- 208 -
ANNEX 18
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Economic Values of Labor and Goods
Economic Price of Labor
1.        Livestock.  Incremental labor required is well within the limits of
available unused family labor, even though many male family members go to the
La Paz area several times a year for temporary work or to the lower rural areas
of the Altiplano to work as hired laborers during planting and harvesting
seasons. Time spent outside the Ulla Ulla area may average 60 to 80 man-days
per family annually. Alpaca breeding under improved conditions would require
the family to work full-time about 30 to 50 man-days a year--health care, in
April-May and shearing in October-November. The first period coincides with
the cropping season in the lower areas and the second may coincide with a trip
to La Paz; however, requirements during the rest of the year would not prevent
any other present occasional activity. Therefore, labor is shadow priced at
about 30% of the value given in the models.
2.        Handicraft.  The handicraft activity in the rural areas is carried
out only during the slack agricultural season. Since, without the handicraft
activity, family members would at best be underemployed in low-productivity
jobs in the marginal urban sector, artisan labor has been shadow priced at 50%
of the value assigned in the models.
Economic Price of Goods
3.        Fibers and Wool.  Ex-plant scoured wool is valued at US$2.9 per kg
in the financial analysis of the plant. The CIF prices of imported clean wool
from Argentina and Peru, currently about US$2.6 per kg, is projected to be
about US$2.8 per kg from the period 1980 to 1985 in constant 1977 terms.
Therefore, the price of clean scoured wool from the processing plant has been
adjusted to reflect the above projected price. Almost all llama fiber presently
collected by COMBOFLA is exported. Price at the collection level (US$2 per
kg) adequately reflects its economic value. Alpaca fiber is purchased in
Bolivia at prices lower than in Peru, which causes substantial contraband ex-
port. Since 90% of the alpaca fiber collected in Peru is exported unprocessed,
farmgate prices offered to the Peruvian farmers at the border with Bolivia may
be considered as economic prices reflecting the international value of alpaca
fiber. Those prices are about 20% above the Bolivian prices, i.e., $b 79.4
per kg in years 1-3, to $b 85.2 in year 17. Acrylic fiber would be entirely
imported and has been valued at its economic price (US$2 per kg) in the
financial analysis.



- 209 -
ANNEX 18
4.        Yarns.  Prices of woolen and acrylic yarns adequately reflect
international prices. Local production is in direct competition with yarns
imported from Argentina and Peru and receive little protection. Llama yarns
are not produced in Bolivia currently and the selling price prevailing in
Peru, which is the world's only producer, has been taken as a representative
economic price. Although unsubsidized, the price of US$17 per kg of alpaca
yarn considered in the financial analysis of the processing plant is lower
than its equivalent in Peru (US$19 per kg), partly reflecting lower financial
costs of raw material. Since alpaca yarn is produced in Peru under conditions
of relatively fair competition and as the industry benefits from little
protection, the Peruvian price there is considered a more realistic economic
value.
5.        Import Duties and Internal Taxation.  Equipment for the textile
plant, vehicles imported directly through international competitive bidding,
raw materials used by the textile industry, live animals, and the most import-
ant agricultural inputs are free of internal taxation and of import duties.
Diesel and fuel oil are produced locally and are free of internal taxes. On
locally procured tradeable goods other than wool, fibers and yarns, the most
significant import duties are:
office equipment   =  20% ad valorem on CIF value
wiring for fences = 11% ad valoren on CIF value
In addition, they bear a general sales tax of 5% over their CIF - plus duties
price:yarns bear a sales tax of 2% (alpaca, wool, llama) to 15% (acrylic yarns)
which has been deducted from the processing costs. Land taxes have been
deducted from the cost of the livestock credit component.
6.        Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  On all non-tradeable goods, a
general SCF of 0.85 has been applied, which is the last six years average of:
X    +    M
X + T + M + T
x        m
where X represents the value of exports, M, the value of imports, and T  and T ,
the value of export and import duties.
B. Economic Rates .of Return
Productive Components
7.        Economic rates of return have been calculated separately for each of
the productive components. Results are as follows:
(a) Livestock production including the cost of the project
facilities in Ulla Ulla                                     =   18%
(b)  Collection, storage and processing                          =   30%



- 210 -
ANNEX 18
(c) Livestock production, collection, storage and
processing including the costs of roads and
INFOL administrative costs                                  =   20%
(d) Handicraft including costs of administration and
training                                                    =   70%
8.        The high rate of return on the handicraft component can be explained
by the low capital investment requirements of the activity. Incremental
working capital needed is substantial and constitutes most of the credit
requirements, with rapid returns; however, the handicraft component is highly
sensitive to small changes in the cost of yarns and/or the selling price of
the end product since artisans work on a very small margin per item. The
livestock and processing components are not too sensitive (in the most un-
favorable circumstances, i.e., with a 10% increase in all costs and a 10%
decrease in all benefits, the economic rate of return of the livestock compo-
nent will not fall below 12%); however, the rate of return of the handicraft
component may become negative when costs or benefits vary by 10%.
9.        The overall economic rate of return is 25%.  The economic rate of
return (Table 1) is calculated on the basis of the costs of (a) livestock
production; (b) project unit facilities in Ulla Ulla; (c) collection, storage
and processing of raw materials; (d) roads and administrative costs of INFOL;
(e) handicraft production; (f) incremental administrative costs of INBOPIA;
and (g) the cost of artisans' training (FOMO). Benefits taken into account
include those from livestock farm development, the alpaca commercial farm,
the. collection system, the processing plant and the handicraft credit component.
10.       The number of beneficiaries from the livestock and handicraft credit
lines has been calculated over 20 years. The number and amount of additional
sub-loans generated from the revolving credit funds have been calculated on
the following basis:
(a) All principal repayments and 8.5 percentage points of the
interests (12%) would revert to the fund to be immediately
relent for the same purposes, to a similar blend of bene-
ficiaries. The 3.5 points not reverted to the revolving
fund are assumed to cover administrative costs and finan-
cial risks;
(b) The total annual amounts obtained have been deflated by
projected inflation over the next 20 years (12% on year 1
of the project, 10% on years 2 and 3, 8% on years 4 and 5,
7% from year 6 to 15 and 6% from year 16 to 20); and
(c) On the above basis, it would be theoretically feasible to
relend the initial credit lines about five more times for
handicraft and 2.5 more times for livestock. However, in



- 21.1 -
ANNEX 18
order to take into account possible slippage, arrears and
further defaults, it has been assumed that they would revolve
only 3.5 and two times respectively. Thus the number of
additional sub-borrowers reached remains well within the
limits of total potential sub-borrowers.
11.       Sensitivity Analysis and Risks - The economic viability of the
project depends partly on the ability of INFOL to motivate the farmers to
improve herd and range management practices, borrow for livestock develop-
ment, and to sell in Bolivia rather than in Peru. The proposed plant capa-
city has been based on production as projected in Annex 2. It could be
assumed that the viability of the new plant and of the handicraft component
would depend on an increased and steady supply of alpaca raw material.
Thus, sensitivity of the economic rate of return to changes in the supply of
alpaca and other raw materials and concurrent decrease in output of yarn has
been tested under various assumptions and the results are as follows:
Economic
Rate of Return
(a) Decrease in volume of all types of raw
materials (would affect, to various
extents, the benefits from livestock,
the costs of the plant and the benefits
of the plant)
-  20%                   22%
=  50%                   16%
(b) Decrease in volume of alpaca fiber
(would affect the same streams as above)
-  20%                   22%
-  50%                   21%
(c) Increase in price of all raw materials
(would affect the benefits from live-
stock and the costs of the plant)
-  20%                    21%
-  50%                    16%
(d) Increase in price of alpaca fiber
(would affect the same streams as
above)
-  50%                    24%



- 212 -
ANNEX 18
12.       These tests show that the economic rate of return is not too sensi-
tive to changes in the supply and prices of alpaca. The reasons for that
seemingly paradoxical situation are that sales of fiber account only for one-
third of farmers' sales (the rest being mostly breeding livestock) and one-
fourth of the raw material used by the processing plant.
13.       Selling prices of alpaca yarns to the artisans are presently sub-
sidized. In the financial analysis, it has been assumed that, under the
project, the subsidy would stop and that the price of handicraft end-products
would adjust upward. It is believed that competition among buyers and
exporters of handicraft products is sufficiently strong and that the planned
intervention of INBOPIA would be effective enough for this adjustment to
occur. However, the extreme sensitivity to small changes in this relation
is evidenced by the following tests:
(i) Decrease in price of handicraft end products
- 10%                   17%
- 15%                   12%
- 20%                    5%
(ii)  Increase in price of yarns (would affect the benefits of the
processing/collecting unit and the costs of the handicraft
component)
+ 10%                   19%
+ 20%                 Negative
14.       Sensitivity to cost overruns and decreases or increases in overall
incremental benefits and costs is indicated below:



- 213 -
ANNEX 18
Economic
Rate of Return
All Investment Costs
+ 10%                                                       24%
+ 20%                                                       23%
Incremental Operating Costs
Livestock + 20%                                             24%
Processing/collection + 20%                                 20%
Handicraft + 10%                                            17%
+ 20%                                            8%
All operating costs + 10%                                   14%
+ 15%                                             7%
Incremental Benefits
Livestock components - 20%                                  23%
Collection/processing - 20%                                 18%
Handicraft - 10%                                            17%
- 15%                                            11%
These figures confirm the fact that project returns are most sensitive to
increases in the operating costs of the handicraft component or decreases in
its benefits.
15.       Also, it should be noted that if a breakthrough in the llama
dehairing technology is made, the economic rate of return could increase to
32%. The economic rate of return on llama dehairing research is estimated
at 60% (Appendix 1).
16.       A reduction in the number of sub-borrowers would not substantially
reduce the economic rate of return. For instance, if the credit lines were not
revolving, the economic rate of return of the project would be 20% instead of
25%. As far as the livestock and the handicraft components are concerned,
their own economic rate of return would still be 12% and 58%, respectively.
The economic rate of return on livestock, processing, roads and administration
would be 17%.
July 14, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Summary of Caicolations
($b '000)
1        2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9       10        11        12       13       14        15        16        17       18        19        20
Incremental Costs
Livestock component
Farm in-est-ent (sob-borro-ors)                      -                   965    5,876    9,493    6,475    2,014    2,129    2,437    2,597    3,049    4,989   5,793    5,170    3,598    3,186    3,483    3,737    3,217    3,893
Caomercial farm                                      578       536    1,420             -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -        -        -         -         -         -             -         -         -
other proJect faciliti-s  1/                      16,764   11,680    3,053         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -       -         -         -        -          -        -         -
Sob-total                  17,342   12,216    5,438    5,876    9,493    6,475    2,014    2,129    2,437    2,597    3,049    4,989   5,793    5,170    3,598    3,186    3,483    3,737    3,217    3,893
Collection, storage, processing                      12,256   59,326        -         -         -        -       2,360       -        -         -         -       3,710      -        -         -         -         -        -  -      -         -
Handicr-ft
Tos-bborrowero                                    2,252    3,924    4,323    4,814    5,326    2,700    2,832    2,832    2,832    2,832    5,084    6,378   7,306    7,797    8,347    5,627    5,948    5,948    6,042    6,099
INBOPIA (admntistr-tion)                           4,657    3,260    1,810        580       320       -         320      -         -         -         -        -        320       -         -         -        -         -         -         -
FOMO (ta-iiag)                                       695       _        -                   -         514       135      -         -         -        514       135      -         -         -        514       135       -         -         -
SRb-total                   7,604    7,184    6,133    5,394    5,646    3,214    3,287    2,832    2,832    2,832    5,598    6,513   7,626    7,797    8,347    6,141    6,083    5,948    6,042    6,099
Roads                                                11,032    6,148        -         -        -         -                   -        -         -         -         -       -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Adoinistration (INFOL)                                  866          -      -         -         -        320       -         232       -                  -         320      -         -        -         232       -         320      -         -
Total investment costs             49.100   85.074   11.571  _11.270   15,139    9.909    7,661    5,193    5.271    5,429    8,647   15,532  13,419   12.967   11.945    9,559                 9,566   10.0D5    9,259    9,992
Incremental Operating Cents
livestock component
To sb-borrowrs                                       -        -       1,706    5,664    8,418    8,906    8,771   10,983   12,301   13,587   14,798   16,199  17,733   19,019   18,211   14,985   13,213   14,099   16,641   14,952
Commercial fern                                      _        -         160       181       188       183      183       184       184      185       186       186      186       186      186            -         -         -              -
other project facilities                             -      6,571    8,665    8,690    8,690    8.690           99    8.690          8,690     8,690     8,690     8,690 890    8,690    8,690    8.690    8,690    8.690    8,690    8.690
sub-total                   3,418    6,571   10,531   14,535   17,296   17,979   17,644   19,857   21,175   22,262   23,674   25,075  26,559   27,895   27,087   26,675   21,903   22,889   25,331   23,642
Collection, storoge  ond processinf                     -      10,284   62,910   72,635   73,349   73,213   75,198   76,382   78,000   79,847   81,731   82,634  85,882   88,427   90,871   92,860   93,316   93,316   93,316   93,316
Roads maintenance                                       -         229       260       260      260       260       260       260      260       260       260       260      260      260       260       260       260       260      260       260
Handicraft
To shb-borrowero                                  22,046   51,384   82,332  106,961  154,731  174,975  196,210  217,445  238,680  259,915  281,150  303,092 325,459  347,826  370,476  392,418  415,776  439,134  463,200  487,691
Traininf (FOM)                                      581      832       696       696       696       696      696       696       696       696      696       696      696       696       696       696      696       696       696       696
Adoinistration (INBOPIA)                           1,231    1,402    1.402    1,402    2,402    1.442    1.402    1.402    1.402    1.402    1.402    1.402   1.402    1.402    1.402    1,402    1.602    1.402    1.402    1.402
Sib-total                  23,858   53,618   84,430  109,059  156,829  177,073  198,308  219,543  240,778  262,013  283,248  305,190 327,557  349,924  372,574  394,516  417,874  441,232  465,298  489,789
Adimnintration (INFOL)                                1,705    1,914    4,138    4,138    4,138    4,138    4,138    4,138    4.138    4.138    4,138    4,138   4,138    4,138    4,138    4,138    4,138    4.138    4,138    4.138
Total increncal operating costs    28,981   72,607  162,269  200,627  251,872  272,463  295,548  320,180  344,351  368,520  393,051  417,297 444,396  470,644  494,930  518,449  537,491  561.835  588,343  611,145
Incremental Benefits
To shb-bhrrowers                                     .        -       2,622    9,201   16,444   18,799   24,644   32,881   41,245   49,665   58,875   67,410  74,417   88,582   92,483   69,228   49,175   55,469   59,235   61,185
Conmercial farm                                                          225      299       675       775       836      864       90        9                                                                   -         -
So,b-total                    - 1               2,847    9,500   17,119   19,574   25,580   33,745   42,145   50,614   59,824   68,416  75,423   89,588   95,012   69,228   49,175   55,469   59,235   61,185
Collection, stor-ge  -nd processing                  (1,660)   8,817   78,606   94,471   96,192  105,251  100,906  103,714  107,280  111,784  116,729  119,268 126,430  130,558  135,899  145,225  145,199  145,199  145,199  171,759
Handicraft                                           24,467   57.477   92,386  131,436  174,065  196,838  220,726  244,614  268,502  292,390  316.278  340,962 366.124  391,286  416,767  441,451  462,768  494,005  521,078  548,629
Total incrmental bhenfits                 22,807   66,294  173,839  235,407  287,376  321,663  347,212  382,073  417,927  454,788  492.831  528,646 567,977  611,432  647,678  655.904  657.142  694,673  725,512  781_573
Net incremental benefits                            -55,274  -91,387         -1   21,510   20,365   39,191   44,003   57,060   68,787   81,439   89,637   94,857 110,882  128,421  141.403  128.736  110,085  122,833  127.910  160.436
Economic rate of et-rn =  25Y
!/ Including irrigation infrast--cture.
July 13, 1977



- 215 -
ANNiEX 18
Appendix 1
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Llama Dehairing Research
Economic Rate of Return
Incremental Benefits
1.        Benefits are expected as the collected llama fiber (up to 1,155 m
tons per year 9) is processed into yarns, or sold to the domestic industry,
or exported. The assumption has been made that the processing plant would
start working on a three shift basis by year 7 in order to process as much
llama dehaired fiber into yarns as possible. Since dehaired llama yarn is
closer in quality to alpaca yarn, it has been valued at US$15 per kg. Alpaca
yarn is valued at US$17 per kg in the financial analysis and US$19 per kg in
the economic analysis. The dehaired fiber is excess of what the processing
plant would utilize (595 m tons of yarn per year on a three shift basis)
would be sold or exported at US$4 per kg (unclean). The new fiber mix of the
plant yarns is shown in Table 1.
Incremental Costs
2.        To the costs of the research program, other incremental costs would
be added, such as (a) the cost of the incremental llama fiber collected,
minus collection costs associated with sheep wool and the value of sheep wool
and acrylic raw material which would be substituted by llama fiber; (b) in-
cremental collection costs ($b 98 per m ton); and (c) incremental processing
costs (one shift from year 7 on).
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
3.        A summary of the calculations is presented in Table 2 and the rate
of return obtained is 60%. Sensitivity tests show that if the cost of develop-
ment or purchase of the technology increase by:
(a) 2 times, the rate of return would still be 44%;
(b) 6 times, the rate of return would still be 24%; and
(c) 10 times, the rate of return would still be 15%.
This would imply that, buying the technology at close to US$10 million would
still be justified.
July 15, 1977



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Llama Dehairing Technology
Production Mix of the Processing Plant
(m tons)
Llama                                   Yarns                         --  Llama Dehaired
Llama Hair    Dehaired             Llama              Alpaca       Sheep                        Fiber left
Year      Collected     Fiber        non-dehaired  dehaired   (unchanged)    Wool      Acrylic    Total   for Sales
3            122           -               44          -          - 32          73       111       260         -
4            140           -               50          -           43           85       122       300         -
5            230         161                -         92           46           82        80       300          -
6            460         322                -        183           57           60         -       300
7            690         483                -        275           68           80       172       595         -
8            920         644                -        367           80           80       148       595          -
9          1,155         808                -        460           94           41         -       595          -
10         1,155         808                -        460          111           24         -       595         -
11         1,155         808                -        460          131        -   4         -       595         -       0
12         1,155         808                -        453          142            -         -       595         12
13         1,155         808                -        427          168            -         -       595         58
14         1,155         808                -        413          182            -         -       595         82
15         1,155         808                         393          202            -         -       595        118
16         1,155         808                -        358          237            -         -       595        179
17-20      1,155         808                -        355          240            -         -       595        184
June 2, 1977
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c a
f    f   :   -0;    ;f   -   ,~'3  I >,;g   f;
f  ff$Xt, S;  0Q  H p  r ,I  f
S f f f; i l_ t .xi11 ,-.
0 E x *; 1 i 



BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Llama Dehairing Technology - Economic Rate of Return - Summary
($b '000)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------Year -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1          2           3           4           5          6           7           8           9          10         11          12          13          14         15          16      17-20
_ncremental Costs 1/
Cost of the research program                         6,808      4,325       4,330       4,330         -           -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -          -           -
Incremental raw material costs:
Llama                                           -           -           -          -         3,600     12,800      21,800      31,000     40,400      45,225      45,225      45,000      45,000      44,775     44,7/5    44,550    44,460
Sheep                                           -           -           -                      -          (375)        250        375.       (475)       (775),  (1,150)    (1,625)    (1,000)          (875)       (i)         (250)        -
Acrylic                                         -                       _            _      (1,680)    (4,720)      2,480       1.920      (3,600)    (3,000)    2,400)    (1,800)    (1.200)           (800)       (400)        -
Sob-total                                                                    1,720       7,705      24,530      33,295      36,325     41,450      41,675      41,575      42,800     43,100      43,700      44,300      44,460
Incremental collection co-ts
Llama                                           _           _          _                         9          31          53          76         99          98          98          98          98          98         98          97          97
Sheep                                           -           -           -           -             -        (1)           1           1          (2)         (3)        (5)         (6)         (4)         (3)         (2)        (1)          -
Sub-total                        -           -          -           -             9          30          52         75          97          95          93          92          94         95          96          96          97
Incremental processing costs                                                                            -           -      9.070       9,070       9.070       9.070       9,070                  9,070       9,070
Total incremental costs                       6,808      4,325       4.330       4,330       1,929       7,735     33,654      42,442      45.492      50,615      50.838      50,737     51,964      52,265      52,866      53,466      53 627
Incremental Benefits
Incremental value of yarn sales                        -           -           -          _        12,080      27,640     79,900    106,520    113,100    112,780    112,480    112,180    106,580   103,840    100,640              93,020      93,300
Incremental value of fiber sales (llama)                                                              -           -           -           -           -          -           -           960      4,640       6,560       9,440      14,320     14,720
Totel incremental benefits .                                -           -           -       12.080      27,640     79 9        106 520    113,100    112,780    112,480    113,140    111,220    110,400   110,080    107,340    108,020
Net incremental benefits                            (6,808)    (4,325)    (4,330)    (4,330)    (0,351         19,905      46,248      64,080     67,608      62,165      61,642      62,403      59,256      58,135      57,214     53,874      54,393
Economic rate of return = 607,
1/  The costs of purchase and operation of developed dehairing machines are not included for lack of information,                                                                                                                                        >
but it is not empected that their inclusion  .ould substantially change the rate of return obtained.
June 1, 1977                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1  



I



6930'                                         --      -*                                                   6900
0 'oSuches                        [ 
/ .                                                              X > q gPelechuco
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
6
0                                                                        .  4 ,      
P      E       R       u                oapt 
15000'                        o                                                                                      15\ ,000-
t  KK~~~~~XOA PURCO,* 
X51TINCCAMP'    O CoCnumo,
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   ?li a
Alpaca  - Llama  - Vicuna
PROJECT  ROAD ALTERNATIVES                                         =           \      Fyjununi .$  To
\ Jachach  0    ~Charazani
Alternative 1, Existing Road to be Improved                                     A\       0 
Alternative 2, New Road to be Built                                                        '<Chari
Project Unit Heodquarters                                                                                   Ila
-   =  Project Boundary                                      -                                            (   ToAr,z
Hum d Grozing Areos                                                                        PLFMASANI
' I .   |Dry Grazing Areas                      |                                                I    /         ,arqch.
TwoWay Gravel Road           |                                    /    ,"      N '
One Way Gravel Roads                                                             S /uc Iron 
+++ +  Interrupted Road                                                          'Soraar-                   tluancaronc
Paths                                 N/?
.....  Horse Trails                                                           H, HPalIan,   ;Ocaca         i       To
o 0    Comrnunities and Towns                                 I                ,                 -t
Rivers                                              J            Moro   \      7 Jperi
-   -    international Boundaries                           rKarka                      N     "x  CobCa
\   <,   2         i   ,./~~~~~~Pacebarn
0         5         10        15        20        25          .                          N,
I    I         I        _                        ',Kku Ku,I
KILOMETERS                                                                    N
I41,
69'30'-
- Intnriomol B-ondarie-                       *' 
D*p. onB           150          /                    Totorani Z  5                                1530-
\PAN                                               J DO. 
r NDOir Q1 ,\.>   BRAZlt /  ~o' Puerto Acosta                                              - ---
'~~-  ~ S.      BRAZIL
rU   Ir /    BENI  >---
.] AREA OF MAP j-         1
B    L I V ~.A          L_        /^o 
(     .-;COCHABAMBA.
RURO          SANTA CRUz
>''           Ib--        ;                                                                                         CW
POTOSI bHUQUI50CX            ?                 .                                                                        -,
RIJA.  PARAGUAY             The boandaree shown on thr map do not                    sc_ma
u        rply (d--.t . NA                endRorsmndtoaceeptenre by th                         To    ur              69C oo - 0
\~  ARGENTINA  :   WorldBcn/;anditsaffiiiates.  .    - . .  -     5To Puerto Carabuco              O



