FILE |O:y                             Document of
FILE C0pr                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2197-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 30, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bolivian Peso ($b)
US$1 = $b.20.O0
$b. 1   US$0.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATION AiD ACRONYMS
BAB      - Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
BE       - State Bank
COMBOFLA - Bolivian Committee for the Production of Wool
DPH      - Department of Public Health of the University
of San Andres
FOMO     - National Manpower Development Service
FOTRAI4A - Alpaca Wool Processing and Marketing Company
IBTA     - Institute for Agriculture and Technology
IDIF     - Physics Research Institute of the University
of San Andres
INBOPIA  - National Institute for Handicrafts and
Small Industry
INFOL    - National Institute for the Development of Wool
MPSSP    - Ministry of Social Security and Public Health
SNC      - National Roads Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:             The National Institute,for the Development of Wool
(INFOL), the National Institute for Handicrafts
and Small Industry (INBOPIA), gthe Agricultural Bank
of Bolivia (BAB), the National Manpower Development
Service (FOMO) and-the State Bank (BE).
Amount:                    Loan:   $9.0 million.  Credit:  $9.0 million.
Terms:                     Loan:   20 years including 5 years of grace at 7.90%
per annum. Credit on standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:           The Government would onlend US$8.4 million at
12% and US$0.1 at no interest, and make available the
remaining US$9.5 million as a grant.
Project Description:       The proposed project would help set up an integrated
system for the production, processing and marketing
of alpaca/llama/vicuna wool with the objective of
raising the income levels of poor farmers and
artisans. It would also complement the directly
production-oriented-activities with production
support and social infrastructure investment to
improve the quality of life of the alpaca/llama
farmers in the Ulla Ulla region. The proposed
project would finance: (a) alpaca/llama/vicuna
development in Ulla Ulla comprising credit to
farmers., an. alpaca/,llama research program, a
commercial demonstration farm, a vicuna conservation
and development,program and,production support and
social infrastructure; (b) improvements in the
collection.,,storage and processing of alpaca/llama/
sheep wool, including construction of a processing
plant and research.. on llama wool dehairing;
(c) credit ,ff wool handicrafts development; and
(d) administration costs. The project faces the
risks associated with the coordination and imple-
mentation of a complex project with commercial
and social sector components.. The project contains
a number of innovate components not tested under
field conditions in Boliyia. The project would
therefore be monitored very closely.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
US$ Thousands
Local     Foreign      Total
*Alpaca/llama/vicuna Development:
Project facilities and
technical services
(including commercial farm)    2,636        922       3,558
Credit                              630       870       1,500
Vicuna conservation program          55        12          67
Sub-total                         3,321     1,804       5,125
Collection, storage and
processing                        2,244     3,527       5,771
Wool Handicrafts Development        1,845       325       2,170
Productive Support and
Social Infrastructure             1,614       814       2,428
Project Administration              1,215       611       1,826
Total baseline cost              10,239     7,081       17,320
Contingencies:
Physical                            355       466         821
Price                             4,379     1.528       5,907
Total project cost                 14,973     9,075      24,048
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Bank/IDA Government 1/ Total
Alpaca/llama/vicuna Development         3.5       1.6           5.1
Collection, Storage and Processing      4.9       0.9           5.8
Wool Handicrafts Development            1.4       0.7           2.2
Productive Support and,
Social Infrastructure                 1.8       0.7          2.4
Project Administration                  1.4       0.4           1.8
Contingencies                           5.0       1.7           6.7
Total                             18.0       6.0         24.0
1/ Of which EEC is expected to provide $2,q million, for items
to be determined.



Estimated
Disbursements:                                         (US$ Million)
FY79    FY80     FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual           3.6     5.9      3.4     2.7     2.4
Cumulative       3.6     9.5     12.9    15.6    18.0
Rate of Return:             The overall economic rate of return of the project
is estimated at 25%, excluding the social infra-
structure and some of the technical assistance
components.
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 1708a-BO dated December 27, 1977.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR THE ULLA ULLA
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan and credit to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$9 million
each to help finance an integrated development project for alpaca/llama
farmers, with special emphasis on alpaca/llama/sheep wool marketing and
processing, and wool handicrafts. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7.90% per annum. The credit
would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Bolivia" (1546-BO) dated
March 23, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of petroleum and natural gas
exports, as well as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of
the poorest countries in South America. The majority of its population is
engaged in traditional agriculture. Even though Bolivia is one of the world's
foremost exporters of tin, only a small part of the labor force is employed
in the modern sector. The infrastructure is primitive and the road and
rail networks reach only a fraction of the country. The combination of strong
traditional ties within the indigenous communities and geographic, health
and educational obstacles to population mobility has perpetuated the demogra-
phic concentration on the inhospitable 3,000 to 4,000 m high plateau, the
Altiplano. About half of Bolivia's population lives a physically, culturally
and economically isolated subsistence existence in this region, which is rich
in mineral deposits but limited in agricultural potential.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure
which had characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times and to deprive
the landowning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was
only partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations,
distributing the land and eliminating obstacles to social mobility. The
agrarian reform and the nationalization of large mines, however, were followed
by falling production. GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its
pre-1952 level until 1961. During the subsequent decade, output increased
steadily at an average annual rate of around 5%, providing for per capita
income increases averaging 2.5% p.a. As a result, GNP per capita, which had



- 2 -
fallen by 24% in the 1952-60 period, recovered to its 1952 level by 1970
and was more equally distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth
was again lost in 1969/71, when political instability led to declining private
investment and deteriorating public finances. The deterioration of public
finances reflected a structural problem in the economy. Bolivia's public
sector is proportionately one of the largest in South America and a source of
livelihood for a sizeable segment of the population. With scarce employment
opportunities in the private sector, pressures to expand public employment
proved difficult to resist. Large expenditures on wages and salaries, combined
with a weak tax system, have limited the resources available for public invest-
ment. Moreover, the inability of the public sector to generate adequate
savings limited its capacity to utilize available external capital assistance.
5.        On coming to power in 1971, President Banzer faced the need to
provide jobs for the unemployed and to revitalize investment and growth.
Initially, this task was complicated by a sharp deterioration in Bolivia's
terms of trade, which produced a weakening in the balance of payments and a
further deterioration in public finances, eventually leading to a substantial
devaluation in 1972. However, more rational economic policies were put into
effect and a more favorable climate for private investment was established.
New laws offering guarantees and incentives to private investors, especially
in the hydrocarbon field, were promulgated and claims pending from earlier
nationalizations were settled. The Government also improved public adminis-
tration and the pricing policies of some public undertakings. These policies
were successful in increasing private investment and in bolstering the rate of
growth.
6.        A number of important steps have been taken by the Government to
improve the living conditions in both the rural and urban areas. In the urban
sector, a new housing bank (BANVI) was created in 1974 to promote and coordi-
nate the financial aspects of low-cost housing and infrastructure schemes.
In the rural sector, investment is being directed towards integrated rural
development projects to provide basic social services, infrastructure, and
credit and extension services (see Part III below). More generally, the
lack of sufficient public investment projects suitable for external financing,
which held back economic and social development in the 1960s, is being over-
come thanks to efforts on the part of the Government (see paragraphs 13 below).
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
7.        Bolivia's economic performance has continued to be strongly in-
fluenced by movements in its terms of trade, which have been particularly
volatile in recent years. The sharp increases in petroleum and mineral
prices in 1974 resulted in a major terms of trade gain, which led to a dra-
matic reversal in the balance of payments and increase in foreign exchange
reserves. While GDP increased by about 5%, improvements in the terms of trade
helped raise gross domestic income by more than 20%, permitting a substantial
increase in both consumption and investment. Moreover, this was accomplished
within the context of an unprecedented improvement in public finances. After
current deficits in 1970-73, the Central Government achieved savings equivalent
to one-third of its capital expenditure. For the public sector as a whole,



- 3 -
savings in 1974 exceeded 10% of GDP and covered nearly 90% of capital expendi-
ture. On the balance-of-payments side, a near doubling of exports permitted a
trade surplus which exceeded US$160 million despite a rapid increase in imports.
The current account showed a surplus for the first time in decades and net
capital inflows approached US$90 million, nearly four times their 1973 level,
as a result of substantially higher loan disbursements to the public sector
and increased foreign investment associated with hydrocarbon exploration.
Consequently, foreign exchange reserves rose by a record US$124 million.
8.        The extreme dependence of the Bolivian economy on its foreign sector
was once more brought into focus in 1975 and early 1976 as, with world eco-
nomic recession, the country's terms of trade deteriorated and export volumes
declined. Mineral exports fell by well over 20% as the weighted average of
mineral prices declined by approximately 13%, and shipments of most minerals
fell as a direct result of the recession and the unloading of speculative
stocks on international markets. The situation was exacerbated by the fact
that exportable surpluses of crude petroleum were significantly reduced for
the second year in a row due to falling production and rapidly rising domestic
consumption of hydrocarbon derivatives. While the export picture was helped
by a significant price increase for natural gas exports to Argentina, this
could not compensate for the overall decline in export earnings. On the
whole, merchandise exports in 1975 declined by 16%. On the other hand, growth
of GDP and investment continued unabated as imports rose by about 36% in the
wake of the start-up of new public investment projects and the liberalization
of imports for consumer durables and motor cars earlier in 1975. As a
result, the balance-of-payments current account shifted from a surplus of
US$150 million in 1974 to a deficit of US$190 million in 1975. Despite
further substantial increases in disbursements of medium-term loans to the
public sector, net foreign exchange reserves fell by US$54 million to US$134
million, or about 2.5 months of imports. The weakening of the balance of
payments was accompanied by a deterioration of the fiscal situation. The
Central Government's current surplus decreased to just about 1.7% of GDP,
after reaching 2.6% in 1974, and increased borrowing from external sources
and the domestic banking system was necessary to finance growing public
investment, even though some public utilities strengthened their financial
situation through to increased rates.
9.        The authorities, reacting to the weakening of the external sector,
took action late in 1975 to tighten imports restrictions. This resulted in
a significant reduction of nominal import growth to 2% in 1976 which helped to
generate a small trade surplus. A trade deficit of about US$20 million is
forecast for 1977 due to a 19% expansion of merchandise imports which could
not be offset by the 16% increase of merchandise exports. At the same time,
Bolivia continued to attract substantial external capital inflows which
enabled it to finance the current account deficit. Uncertainty caused by the
presidential election in July 1978 however has created pressure on Bolivia's
reserve position in recent months. In response to these pressures and because
of rising debt service requirements, the Government is taking measures to
implement an overall stabilization plan which would include additional tariffs



on imported consumer durable goods and strict restriction on general purpose
foreign borrowing by the public sector's institutions. The authorities have
recently created a technical council for public enterprises and issued a
Presidential Directive which sets out guidelines aimed at reducing their
current and investment expenditures and at improving accounting procedures.
Also, tax administration is being made more effective through a taxpayer
register, an increase in the number of firms subject to external auditing
requirements and changes in indirect taxation.
10.       Economic growth prospects over the medium- to longer-term depend
on the Government's ability to increase savings and stimulate investments
particularly those for developing hydrocarbon, mineral and agricultural
resources. Investment in mining and hydrocarbons is accelerating. Inten-
sified exploration for hydrocarbons by the state-owned petroleum company
and private foreign companies is underway and may lead to significantly
increased production and exports of crude petroleum and natural gas, which
should permit an acceleration of economic growth towards the end of the
decade. Recent exploration results have been fairly positive, i.e. a new
oil field with immediate commercial potential was discovered by Occidental
Petroleum in the Tita fields in the department of Santa Cruz. Occidental's
initial oil production next year is targeted at 10,000 barrels per day,
equivalent to 25% of Bolivia's daily oil output. Likewise, Tesoro Petroleum
made a gas and petroleum strike in Tarija. The commercial potential of this
field however has yet to be assessed.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
11.       Bolivia's external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1976
amounted to 1.0 billion and the debt service constituted 18.8% of exports of
goods and non-factor services net of investment income abroad. As a result of
increased borrowing from commercial banks and suppliers' credits over the last
few years the structure of the external debt has worsened. Thus, between
1971 and 1976 the average maturity has decreased from 24 to 14 years, while
the interest rate has risen from 4.5% to 7% and the grant element of new loans
fell from 36% to 17%. Because of the heavy investment requirements associated
with development of the mining and hydrocarbon sectors and the large import
content of these investments, Bolivia's trade gap and current account deficit
can be expected to rise for the remainder of this decade. As a consequence,
the debt service ratio is expected to increase to about 24% by 1980. However,
as investments in these sectors come to fruition, exports will accelerate
and import requirements of investment will decline. A gradual fall in the
debt service ratio is therefore likely in the later 1980s. In view of the
nature and growing size of Bolivia's debt, prudence in selecting and utilizing
external capital will have to be an essential element of debt management.
12.       Bolivia enjoys a substantial resource base in agriculture, minerals
and hydrocarbons, which augurs well for continued high rates of economic
growth but which will require increasing amounts of external financing for its
development. Bolivia can be considered creditworthy for some external lending
on conventional terms, provided present policies designed to augment production



in the export sectors - including particularly mining and hydrocarbons -
continue, and provided further that the market prospects for Bolivia's major
export - tin - do not deteriorate. However, Bolivia's external dependence on
a few nonferrous metals and minerals makes the balance of payments particularly
vulnerable to market fluctuations and lowers the ratio of debt service to
exports that may be considered consistent with prudent debt management. This
consideration, together with Bolivia's low per capita income and its con-
sequently somewhat constrained capacity to general additional savings, argue
for blending lending on conventional terms with some concessional loans. This
is particularly the case at a time when Bolivia's capacity to utilize foreign
capital to good advantage - its absorptive capacity - has expanded more
rapidly than has the safe ceiling on debt on conventional terms.
13.       The Government, in pursuing its development policies, is making a
serious effort to mobilize domestic resources and to secure foreign resources
at the best possible terms to finance the investment program included in its
first five-year economic plan. To this end, the Government submitted to
the first Consultative Group Meeting for Bolivia held in Paris May 1977 and
to the meetings of private international financial institutions which was held
immediately after the Consultative Group Meeting, a list of 70 projects and
10 major pre-investment studies. Most of the Governments and International
Agencies represented at the first Consultative Group Meeting expressed interest
in financing, under concessionary terms and in varying degrees and amounts,
many of the high priority projects included in the list. Nevertheless, either
because of the large size or the sector, some of the projects were outside
the interest of the Consultative Group members and will require financing
from the private financial institutions. Moreover, implementation of the
whole investment program will require external assistance for high priority
projects in excess of the foreign exchange component, in particular, for
projects in the agricultural, education, urban and other social sectors where
requirements for imported equipment and materials are relatively limited.
Although substantially increased suppliers' and financial credits will prob-
ably become available, prudent debt management requires that they should cover
not more than about a third of the public capital inflows needed during 1977-
80 for meeting a GDP growth target of 6% annually. The remainder should be
obtained on softer terms from bilateral and international development
financing agencies, including the Bank and IDA.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
14.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not
obtain any Bank Group funds until 1964. Bolivia's tight budget constraints
and restricted capacity to service external debt had limited Bank Group
assistance until recently.   Apart from a US$23.3 million Bank loan for a gas
pipeline, Bank Group operations until FY75 were exclusively through IDA.
After Bolivia started to export, in small quantities, natural gas and petro-
leum, IDA's lending was reduced, the last IDA credit being the Agricultural
Credit I Project in June, 1975. To date, the Bank Group has approved 21
operations for Bolivia amounting to US$275.6 million, of which seven have been
fully disbursed. Net of undisbursed balances, Bolivia's debt to the Bank and



- 6 -
IDA in 1975/76 represented 7.9% of its public debt. The Bank's share of the
service on this debt is about 4%. Both figures are expected to increase
marginally by 1980.
15.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has assisted in the development of
various sectors. US$27.2 million have been for agriculture where our lending
has helped the Government to initiate long term progress for the development
of a viable livestock industry, to increase agricultural production and to
improve living conditions on the Altiplano, as well as to strengthen the
Agricultural Bank of Bolivia as a development institution. The five credits
for power projects, totalling US$53.4 million, have been instrumental in
modernizing the sector, expanding electricity services, stabilizing the
electricity supply and setting up a regulatory agency. Also, a public power
company was set up which has been operated in an efficient and financially
sound manner. A US$23.3 million loan was made for the construction of a
gas pipeline from the Santa Cruz area to the border with Argentina. Two loans
and a credit for railways totalling US$75.0 million, of which US$3.3 million
were cancelled when ENFE obtained funds from bilateral sources to purchase
locomotives, have helped to improve the quality of management, efficiency of
operations and financial condition of the national railways. A recently
approved aviation development project will assist Bolivia's efforts to develop
agriculture in hitherto isolated areas and to provide efficient freight and
passenger transportation. Three operations, for a total of US$28.2 million,
for medium- and small-scale mining aim at increased production and improved
sectoral coordination. A loan for a water supply and sewerage project of
US$11.5 million is expected to improve services in the main mining cities and
70 rural communities. A loan of US$15 million for an education and vocational
training project will assist Bolivia to develop its human resources in a more
effective and rational way. Finally, a loan of US$17 million will help
Bolivia to mitigate the serious urban problems in La Paz and improve the
living conditions of the urban poor particularly in that city.
16.       Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became
active in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a firm
producing cables and plastic products. Two IFC investments since then have
contributed to the establishment of local market for long-term securities:
an equity participation of up to US$550,000 in Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA) in
conjunction with a Bank loan of US$10.0 million for the same institution
to assist in financing medium-sized industrial and mining enterprises, and
US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist in the development of
mortgage banking. Annex II contains a summary statement of the status of Bank
Group operations in Bolivia as of November 30, 1977, and notes on the status
of ongoing projects.
17.       Remarkable progress has been made in achieving the goals set for
Bank lending to Bolivia. On the macro-economic level, the Government has
made important strides towards formulating a coherent and consistent set of
overall economic policies. On the sector and project level, public services
have been improved and the institutions strengthened. The financial position
of the railroads and power sectors compare favorably with that of similar
entities in other developing countries. Also, during the last two years, the



- 7 -
Government has established an excellent record in providing the required
counterpart funds for Bank-financed projects. Future Bank lending will con-
tinue to support Government efforts to establish' infrastructure necessary for
sustained economic development while simultaneously improving the distribution
of the benefits of economic growth. In this con'text, recent Bank activities
have focussed on the less developed regions and the lower income strata of the
population. At present, Bank loans for irrigation, highway maintenance,
railways, electric energy, forestry, industry and mining are under preparation.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
18.       The rural sector plays an important role in Bolivia's economic
development. Almost 70% of Bolivia's populat'ion live in rural areas and over
one-half of the country's labor force depend on agriculture for its livelihood.
Agricultural production accounts for one-fourth of GDP and 12% of the country's
export earnings.' Until recently, the bulk of public and private investment
for agriculture was channeled to the northern and eastern lowlands which have
large reserves of lands suitable for crop production. As a result, commercial
agriculture expanded rapidly and standards of living in those areas have shown
considerable improvement.
19.       By contrast, agricultural production and living conditions of the
peasants on the Altiplano and in the Andean valleys have remained stagnant at
extremely low levels; 80% of the rural population of the country live in these
areas. Agriculture in the Altiplano is based on a few subsistence crops and
on the raising of llamas, alpacas, sheep and some cattle. The small scale of
farm operations, adverse climatic conditions and low soil fertility impose
stringent constraints on the application of modern technology. While there is
little scope for expanding land under cultivation, crop yields and livestock
production could be increased above the present low standards by improved
farming methods, better farmer organization and adequate supply of inputs.
The Government is determined to improve the economic and social conditions of
the rural poor in those areas, even though it is aware that there can only be
gradual and limited progress, given the inherent human and environmental
constraints and the relatively poor record *of previous attempts to raise the
standard of living in these regions.
20.       Generally, previous administrations have attempted to solve the
problems of the rural poor on the Altiplano and in the valleys through land
redistribution and directed colonization. Land redistribution has largely
been limited to the northwestern highlands of the country where it was accom-
panied by the abolition of unpaid labor and' the creation of peasant unions.
The resulting large number of very small farms constrained growth of produc-
tivity and income.   Past efforts to promote large-scale migration to the
lowlands have not significantly altered rural population densities. The
failure of the directed colonization schemes has-been due mainly to the
migrants' weak defenses against tropical diseases, their strong attachment to
ancestral land and their reluctance to break off their strong community ties.



- 8 -
21.       The present administration decided to follow different development
approaches. One approach is characterized by the Ingavi Rural Development
Project (Loan 1211-BO), which is designed to provide improved production
inputs and technical assistance to increase production of traditional crops,
forage and milk in areas suitable for rain-fed and irrigated agriculture.
Another approach is reflected in the proposed project which is designed
for the farmers whose land is unsuitable for crops or cattle, but supports
alpacas, llamas and vicunas. Since the wool of these animals commands high
prices in the world markets, this land offers potential for development.
22.       The present administration has begun to mobilize financial and human
resources to implement its development strategy for the Altiplano and the
Valleys. A special office to coordinate all the development activities in the
Altiplano has been established with the assistance of the UNDP. Concurrently,
the Government has begun to reform relevant institutions and to improve sector
management capabilities. In early 1974, the two previously separate Ministries
of Agriculture and Rural Affairs were merged. A new semi-autonomous Institute
for Agriculture and Technology (IBTA) has been recently established to formul-
ate priorities for, and carry out research and extension services in, the
agricultural sector. IDB is providing IBTA with technical and financial
assistance to strengthen its research and agricultural extension programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
23.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Ulla Ulla Development Project,"
No. 1708a-BO dated December 27, 1977, is being distributed separately. The
project was identified in November 1975. Two preparation missions financed by
the Organization of American States (OAS) visited Bolivia in July 1976 and
November 1976. The appraisal mission visited Bolivia and Peru from March 5 to
April 13, 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington on November 28 to 30,
1977 and the Bolivian team was headed by Alberto Valdez, Sub-Secretary,
Ministry of Planning and Coordination.
24.       The proposed project would be the second Bank Group operation for
integrated rural development in Bolivia. It forms part of a concerted,
comprehensive effort by the Government, with the assistance of the Bank Group,
to find ways of alleviating poverty and increasing agricultural production in
the Altiplano.
Project Description
25.       The proposed project would help set up an integrated system for the
production, processing and marketing of primarily alpaca/llama wool with the
objective of raising the income levels of poor farmers in Ulla Ulla and the
Central Altiplano and artisans in La Paz and Cochabamba Departments. The
project would complement the directly production-oriented activities with
production support and social infrastructure investment to improve the quality
of life of the alpaca/llama farmers in the Ulla Ulla region. The proposed
project would finance: (a) alpaca/llama/vicuna development; (bj improvements



- 9 -
in the collection, storage and processing of alpaca/llama/sheep wool,
including construction of a processing plant and research on llama wool
dehairing; (c) productive and social infrastructure in the Ulla Ulla region;
(d) development of solar energy devices; (e) credit for wool handicraft
development; and (f) administration costs for the implementing agencies.
A.   Alpaca/Llama/Vicuna Development
Project Area
26.       The Ulla Ulla region (see map), located in the Department of La Paz,
northeast of Lake Titicaca, covers about 300,000 ha of extensive plains at an
average elevation of about 4,200 m. About 3,000 families live in the project
area; alpaca/llama raising is the principal economic activity. There are
some 150,000 alpacas, 25,000 llamas and 600 vicunas. Most of pasture land
is community owned; usufruct rights for plots of different quality are rotated
regularly to distribute benefits evenly among the members of the community.
Areas suited for cultivation are extremely scarce. Employment opportunities
are limited to jobs in village administration, and in the few alpaca/llama
buying stations. Living conditions are harsh and life expectancy is about
45 years.
27.       To date, the project area has received little assistance from
the Government and the target population is considered among the poorest in
Bolivia. Social infrastructure and health and education services are grossly
inadequate. Personal hygiene practices in the project area are deficient;
water is contaminated and there are no waste disposal facilities for the local
population. Classrooms are damp and cold and lack adequate lighting and
drinking water facilities. Due to the deficient education system the majority
of local students is ill-prepared to contribute to the development of the
local communities.
On-Farm Development
28.       The project would provide credit to farmers for on-farm development
and herd management; about 70% of the funds lent are expected to be channelled
to farmers in the Ulla Ulla region, the remaihder to farmers in the Central
Altiplano. Subloans would be made to improve traditional animal shearing and
wool handling and classifying practices, and to construct facilities for
animal husbandry and range management programs; subloans to individual farmers
would be secured by chattel mortgages on the animals. The extension services
provided under the project would advise participating farmers on better
practices, and on the preparation and implementation of farm development
plans; veterinary services would also be available.
The Experimental Station and Commercial Farm
29.       An experimental station and commercial farm would be established
on about 4,000 ha which the participating communities have contributed for the
use of the project. Initially, the commercial farm would depend mostly on
technology already available in the La Raya station in Peru, and later on use



- 10 -
technology from the Ulla Ulla research station as it becomes available. The
experimental station would be provided with laboratory equipment and facilities
for research in parasitology, bacteriology, biology, pasture and nutrition;
the station would also experiment on low cost production systems. The tech-
nical and economic feasibility of range development under irrigation would be
tested on a pilot scale. The commercial farm would serve as a model to local
farmers to demonstrate the profitability of a well-managed alpaca/llama
raising program and to facilitate the adoption of the development plans
prepared by the extension services. Arrangements for the purchase of the
alpacas for the commercial farm and experimental station would be made by
INFOL(Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement). Profits from the commer-
cial farm would be shared by the communities in proportion to the land they
have donated to the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
(Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement) that, after ten years, INFOL
would transfer title to the commercial farm to the donor communities for
operation as a cooperative enterprise.
The Protection Scheme for Vicunas
30.       The implementation of the vicuna conservation and development program
is necessary to protect the few remaining wild vicunas from poachers and to
learn more about the animal's physiology, reproduction and migration patterns
to facilitate expansion of the vicuna population. Vicuna wool is highly priced
and increased vicuna population would make possible the commercial exploitation
of the animal providing an additional source of income for the Altiplano popula-
tion. Currently, there are only about 1,000 vicunas in Bolivia of which an
estimated 600 are in the Ulla Ulla National Reserve. The project would
provide funds to carry out research on vicunas; to recruit and train addi-
tional guards and to provide facilities and equipment necessary to strengthen
the existing conservation program.
Productive Support and Social Infrastructure
31.       One of the project objectives is to improve the living conditions
in the project area through a package of complementary components described
below to support the expected increase in production and to upgrade the social
infrastructure in the Ulla Ulla region. The Government has agreed to maintain
and staff the facilities (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
32.       Roads - Equipment for the construction and improvement of about
54 kilometers of all-weather roads to ensure the unimpeded flow of goods and
services to and from the project area and access of project personnel to
farmer groups throughout the project area.
33.       Solar Energy Devices - Since solar energy is a potentially
exploitable resource in the Altiplano, the project would strengthen local
facilities and expertise to permit economic utilization of this resource by
the local population, particularly for drying, cooking and water heating. The
project would provide financing for the purchase of equipment and tools for
the workshop presently operated by the Physics Research Institute (IDIF) of



the University of San Andres in La Paz to develop and test solar energy
devices that would be at least competitive with conventional methods and
readily acceptable to the rural population. It would also provide scholar-
ships for training abroad and finance the services of a solar energy expert.
34.       Education - The project includes construction of 25 new classrooms,
renovation of two existing ones and replacement of the intermediate school in
Ulla Ulla. Houses would be built for teachers and textbooks and teaching
materials would be provided.
35.       Health - Health posts would be installed in 30 villages.    Each
health post would be equipped with a first aid kit containing basic drugs for
treatment of the most common ailments. The posts would be backed up by a
six-bed medical post to be built in Ulla Ulla to handle emergency cases. The
health facility at Charazani would be equipped to deliver ambulatory and
hospital care for the more serious cases.
36.       Water Supply and Waste Disposal - Potable water supply and waste
disposal facilities would be provided to about 2,000 families in the project
area. About 1,200 pumps and 1,000 pit privies would be installed.
37.       Promotion of Women - Assistance will be made available to. 2,000
women living in the project area to improve their health, nutrition, home-care
practices, education and handicraft making skills. Funds would be provided
for the construction and equipment of five Mother's Club Centers and for the
recruitment and training of talented local women to become promotion agents.
B.   Alpaca/Llama/Sheep Wool Collection, Storage and Processing
Alpaca/Llama Wool Industry
38.       Alpaca/llama wool is gathered from the producers by the Bolivian
Committee for the Production of Wool .(COMBOFLA), a state enterprise, the
Alpaca Wool Processing and Marketing Company (FOTRAMA), a cooperative, and
itinerant tradesmen. The marketing infrastructure is poor, warehouses and
transportation are inadequate. Prices for alpaca wool are set by COMBOFLA,
but since they are lower than prices in Peru, smuggling of alpaca wool to
Peru is considerable.
39.       Increasing sales of artisanal products have generated a large demand
for yarn which cannot be satisfied. Because of capacity limitations only about
half of Bolivia alpaca wool is processed in Bolivia, the remainder is exported
in raw form. Only COMBOFLA and FOTRAMA spin alpaca fiber into yarn. Llama
wool is not processed industrially in Bolivia, but is spun manually, as is
alpaca wool, throughout the Altiplano.   Both the FOTRAMA wool processing plant
in Cochabamba and the COMBOFLA plant in Pulacayo are poorly equipped and
managed.
40.       Traditionally, llama wool has been considered inferior to alpaca or
vicuna wool because of the mix of coarse and fine soft fibers. The coarse
fibers create processing problems and make the texture of the fabric rough and



- 12 -
unpleasant. Llama wool is therefore used mainly for blankets and heavy
woolen fabrics. To date, very little has been done in Bolivia to develop an
appropriate dehairing technology. The technology exists in the USA and
Europe. Availability of a practical and economic dehairing technology in
Bolivia would have substantial impact on the country's wool industry and the
handicraft sector since it would increase the animal resource base for the
production of high quality yarn.
Wool Collection, Storage and Processing
41.       The existing collection network for alpaca and llama wool would be
expanded by acquiring additional storage space. Five new gathering posts would
be built and adequately staffed and equipped. The facilities would also be
used for sheep wool. Vehicles would be provided to reach all production zones
and speed up transport of raw materials to the storage facilities in La Paz.
Raw materials would be graded and stored in a warehouse to be built close to
the processing plant.
42.       The project would also finance construction of a new processing
plant in La Paz, with a total annual capacity of 300 m tons of yarn in two
shifts. The project would provide all equipment, including scouring faci-
lities, carding and spinning units, and consultant services. The plant would
also be suited for the production of sheep yarn. In the light of the strong
demand for alpaca wool, it is expected that the plant would have no difficulty
in selling its production to Bolivian and/or foreign users.
Llama Wool Dehairing
43.       The Government would initiate negotiations for the purchase of
dehairing technology and submit a proposal for Bank/Association consideration
before June 30, 1978. Assurances to this effect were obtained during nego-
tiations (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Should
the Government be unable to purchase the technology at a reasonable price, a
research program would be carried out in Bolivia. In this case the project
would finance the cost of constructing and equipping a pilot processing plant,
a complete fiber testing laboratory and a qualified and experienced research
staff.
C.   Wool Handicrafts Development
The Wool Handicrafts Industry
44.       The-Bolivian handicraft industry, particularly wool-based handi-
crafts, is a vital source of supplementary income and employment for many
Bolivians. The industry generates about US$4 million in foreign exchange per
year. The bulk of Bolivian artisans depend on subsistence farming for their
livelihood and supplement their income by sales of handicrafts. Textile
artisans, however, faced with a permanent shortage of alpaca yarn, lack of
credit to purchase adequate equipment, lack of technical assistance and
deficient marketing facilities are a long way from realizing the full market
potential. Growth of the industry has been slow, but prospects have



- 13 -
brightened by the creation in 1974 of the National Institute for Handicrafts
and Small Industries (INBOPIA), set up to promote the development of the
sector.
Handicrafts Development
45.       Credit and technical assistance would be provided to help about
3,400 rural and urban artisan families in the Departments of La Paz and
Cochabamba to increase production and exports of typical textile handicraft
items; subloans would be secured by chattel mortgages. The project would
provide for: (a) a US$2.0 million credit line to finance the capital require-
ments of artisans working with alpaca/llama/sheep wool; (b) a US$1.0 million
technical assistance program to help INBOPIA organize artisan production and
marketing groups, promote exports of Bolivian handicrafts, contract the
production of radio programs in Aymara and Quechua to inform artisans about
the handicraft programs, supervise the training program for the participating
artisans implemented by the National Manpower Development Service (FOMO), and
assist the State Bank (BE) in the implementation of the artisan credit com-
ponent; (c) a US$100,000 purchasing fund to enable INBOPIA to buy and sell
some of the handicraft articles produced by artisan organizations in order to
protect the producers by sustaining adequate price levels.
E. Project Administration
46.       The project would provide financing for salaries and overhead costs
of INFOL, the agency responsible for project execution. It would also provide
incremental administration costs for INBOPIA.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies is
US$24 million equivalent, of which US$9 million or 38% represent the foreign
exchange component. The Commission of the European Community has agreed to
participate in the project and will provide a grant equivalent to US$2.0
million to finance local expenditures. Of total project cost, the Government
would contribute US$4 million or 17%, the European Community US$2 million or
8%, and the Bank/Association US$18 million or 75%. The proposed loan/credit
would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of US$9 million plus US$9
million local costs. Local cost financing is justified in Bolivia in view of
the country's poverty and its intensive efforts to mobilize domestic savings
and also because of the importance of the project to the Government's overall
strategy in engendering development in the Altiplano. The project costs
include provision for 254 man-months of consultant services at an estimated
average cost of US$47,000 per annum for a total cost of US$1.2 million equiv-
alent.
48.       The Government would be the borrower and would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Proceeds of the loan/credit as well as the Government counter-
part funds would be channeled to the participating agencies. Project funds
would be made available by the Government as a grant except for the credit
program for alpaca/llama development and for handicrafts, the commercial farm,



- 14 -
and for the collection, storage and processing plant facilities. Funds for
the credit programs would be onlent to farmers and handicraft producers at
12%; for the collection, storage and processing facilities, funds would be
onlent to INFOL for 15 years including 5 years of grace at 12% interest; for
the commercial farm funds would also be onlent to INFOL for 14 years,
including 4 years of grace at no interest. The Government would make its
contribution according to a schedule to be agreed upon with the Bank/
Association. Funds would be disbursed from the Central Bank project accounts
only on authorization from INFOL, except for BAB and BE which would be re-
imbursed against proof of disbursements on subloans to project beneficiaries.
The Central Bank would receive 1/4% on outstanding subloan amounts as compen-
sation for its services. Payments of interest and principal from the credit
program would be accumulated in the project account and managed as revolving
funds. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations
(Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       New equipment for the processing plant (US$2.5 million, excluding
contingencies), road construction and maintenance equipment (US$300,000,
excluding contingencies) and vehicles (US$261,000, excluding contingencies)
would be acquired through international competitive bidding according to Bank/
IDA procurement guidelines. Equipment for llama dehairing research facilities
would be procured on a negotiated basis. INFOL would coordinate the require-
ments of the participating agencies and issue the calls for tenders. All
tender packages for equipment in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/
Association procedures. Furniture and office equipment would be procured
through local competitive bidding according to local procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of most handicraft and farm inputs
would be carried out by farmers through normal commercial channels. Road work
would be undertaken by SNC on force account. Civil works contracts would be
awarded after local competitive bidding.
50.       The Bank/Association would disburse over a period of five years 100%
of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment, consultants' services and
overseas training; and 68% of local expenditures for equipment, materials,
civil works, credit and project administration.
Organization and Management
51.       The project would be executed by a recently created institution, the
National Institute for the Development of Wool (INFOL), which will be respon-
sible for the formulation of long-term strategies for the development of the
alpaca/llama/sheep wool industry and for ensuring an adequate supply of wool to
textile plants and Bolivian artisans. INFOL's operating procedures, financial
endowment and business purpose have been established by decree, and are
acceptable to the Bank/Association. The general manager, already appointed,
is an able and qualified professional. He would be supported by a deputy
manager and a small core staff of qualified professionals. Assurances



- 15 -
were obtained that the Government and INFOL would provide for sufficient
incentives to retain qualified personnel (Section 4.04 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement). An expert in
administration and management would be hired for 24 months to assist the
general manager. Assurances were obtained that an expert with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank/Association would be employed by July
1, 1978 (Section 2.02(a)(i) of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       INFOL would have five divisions:   Agricultural Credit and Extension,
Planning and Monitoring, Marketing and Processing, Agricultural Credit and
Extension and Administration which would be located in La Paz, and Agricul-
tural and Social Infrastructure to be set up in Ulla Ulla. The Agricultural
Credit and Extension Division would prepare and supervise investment programs
and promote the credit program among farmers in Oruro and Potosi. It would
also be responsible for organizing courses on alpaca, llama and sheep develop-
ment with the local universities and for promoting programs to train Bolivians
at La Raya Experimental Station in Peru.
53.       The Planning and Monitoring Division (PM) would collect data and
prepare annual forecasts for wool production and demand for wool and yarn,
and, on the basis of such information, establish minimum selling and purchas-
ing prices for wool and yarn to ensure a steady and timely supply of raw
materials to processing plants and yarn to artisans, and to keep INFOL self-
sufficient. The support price system would be managed through a price
stabilization fund under PM's guidance. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that INFOL would submit a detailed proposal to the Bank/
Association for comments not later than October 31, 1978 on the pricing
mechanism and the operating procedures of the fund (Section 2.09 of the
draft Project Agreement). PM would also monitor the overall progress
of the project and other development programs being implemented by INFOL.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations from the Borrower that requests
for construction of new wool processing plants or expansion of existing
capacity would only be approved after consultation with INFOL in order to
ensure that plant capacity is consistent with the supply of raw materials
(Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Loan Agreement).
54.       The Marketing and Processing Division (COMPRO) would assume full
responsibility for the collection, sorting, storage, processing and selling
of wool and yarn to artisans and industrial users. It would not engage in
handicraft activities (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Assurances were also obtained that INFOL would sell to FOTRAMA alpaca wool to
meet its annual requirements subject to a ceiling of 50 m tons (Section 2.08
of the draft Project Agreement). COMPRO would also be responsible for the
development of a llama dehairing technology, export promotion and establishing
and maintaining an efficient grading and quality control system. Assurances
were obtained that a consulting firm would be contracted on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank/Association, by January 1, 1979, to provide
technical know-how and to implement management control programs as well as to
set up a training program for plant personnel (Section 2.02(a)(iii) of the
draft Project Agreement). COMPRO would operate the COMBOFLA facilities to be



- 16 -
taken over by INFOL. Since COMBOFLA's Pulacayo processing plant would be
scrapped once the new processing plant is completed, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that INFOL would adequately compensate Pulacayo workers
(Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
55.       The Agriculture and Social Infrastructure Division (ASI) will be
located in Ulla Ulla. Given the remoteness of the project area from the main
centers of population and the harshness of living conditions in the area, the
compensation program for the staff in Ulla Ulla would be made attractive.
ASI's chief, already appointed, is an able and qualified professional.
He would have overall authority and responsibility for execution of the
alpaca/llama component of the project. He would also be responsible for the
implementation of the social infrastructure components. For the research
program, ASI would be assisted by specialists in pasture and forage and
experts in animal breeding and production. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that experts with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank/Association would be employed no later than July 1, 1978 (Section
2.02(a)(v) of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       To strengthen beneficiary participation, an ad hoc committee would
be established in the project area to provide advice on matters relating to
programs undertaken under the project, annual investment plans, and any issue
which might arise between the participating farmers and project management
(Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
57.       A monitoring unit would be set up within ASI to conduct a continuous
study of overall project activities and to evaluate project performance in
Ulla Ulla. Information collected by this unit together with that of PM would
provide a basis for management decisions during implementation of the proposed
project as well as for future projects in the Altiplano. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the monitoring unit would be established by
April 1, 1978 and that quarterly progress reports would be sent to the Bank/
Association within two months of the end of each quarter (Section 2.13 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Implementation
58.       INFOL would construct and operate the experimental station and
commercial farm, and the facilities for the collection, storage and processing
of wool. It would be responsible for the vicuna conservation program and the
acquisition of llama dehairing technology. INFOL would enter into contractual
agreements with INBOPIA for the handicrafts component; with the National Roads
Service, for the road program; the Ministry of Social Security and Public
Health, for the health component and the water supply and waste disposal
system; the Ministry of Education, for the education component; the IDIF, for
the solar energy program; and the Wildlife and National Parks Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture for the vicuna conservation and development program
(Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). BAB and BE, under subsidiary
agreements with the Central Bank, would act as financial agents for the credit
components.



- 17 -
59.       INBOPIA would be primarily responsible for the handicraft component
and in addition to its operational contract with INFOL, would enter into a
contractual arrangement with BE, the National Manpower Development Service
(FOMO) and local radio stations for implementation of the lending program,
training and radio broadcasting respectively. INBOPIA would contract an
expert in organization and management, an expert in marketing and fair
organization, and short-term consultants in textile engineering and design.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that experts with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank/Association would be employed by July
1, 1978 and the short-term consultants by January 1, 1979 (Section 2.02(b) of
thie draft Project Agreement).
60.       The National Road Service (SNC) would construct and improve project
roads. Annual maintenance of project roads would be carried out by SNC through
force account. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment would maintain all roads in the project area during execution and after
completion of the project (Section 4.03(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
61.       The Ministry of Social Security and Public Health would be
responsible for the construction, equipping and administration of health
facilities. Under an agreement with the Ministry, the Department of Public
Ilealth of the University of San Andres would be responsible for implementing
the health program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Borrower would maintain the health facilities after the completion of the
project period (Section 4.03(b)(i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Ministry would supervise the operation and maintenance of the water and
waste disposal components. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations
that INFOL would contract with the Ministry the carrying out of investigations
to determine priority areas to be served with potable water and availability
of aquifers, and prepare a plan of operation bef6re purchasing pumps (Section
2.03(b)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
62.       The implementation of the education component would be supervised by
an expert to be contracted by the Project Unit managing the Bank financed
Education and Vocational Training Project (Loan 1404-BO). He would be seconded
to INFOL and reside in Ulla Ulla. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the expert's qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to the
Bank/Association and that he would be contracted within three months of loan
signing (Section 2.02 (c) and (d) of the draft Project Agreement), and that the
Borrower would provide adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance and
repair of all buildings and equipment provided under the project (Section 4.03
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
63.       IDIF would implement the solar energy program.   Demonstration of the
practical uses of solar energy devices would be carried out jointly in selected
areas in the Altiplano by INFOL and IDIF. INFOL would contract a solar energy
expert to assist in the developing and testing of simple and low-cost solar
energy devices. Assurances were obtained that the expert qualifications and
experience would be satisfactory to the Bank/Association and that he would be
hired by January 1, L979 (Section 2.02(a)(iv) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
64.       The chief of the unit responsible for the Experimental Station in
Ulla Ulla would be in charge of the daily operations of the vicuna conser-
vation and development program, including coordination with the Wildlife and
National Park Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. INFOL would exchange
information and experts in this field with Peru, Chile and Argentina. Im-
plementation of the program would be facilitated if the ten-year moratorium
which expires in 1979 on all killing, marketing and exporting of vicunas' skin
or wool is extended. Assurances were therefore obtained during negotiations
that the Government would dicuss this matter with Peru, Chile and Argentina
and would support the extension of the moratorium beyond 1979 (Section 4.06
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
65.       INBOPIA would provide technical assistance to artisans in preparing
investment plans and loan requests for handicraft activity. BE would be
responsible for the technical analysis of each subloan. Following approval,
BE would supervise the implementation of each investment plan. BE would
assume the financial risk and would receive a margin of 3-3/4% on outstanding
subloan balances. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the
lending terms and conditions (Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement).
66.       INFOL would prepare farm investment plans and loan applications for
alpaca herd development and would carry out technical and financial analyses
of subloan applications. Applications would be forwarded to BAB for subloan
processing, disbursing and collecting. INFOL would supervise the subloans
and assist in the implementation of farm development plans. The Government
would assume the financial risk and BAB would receive a margin of 2% on
outstanding subloan balances for its participation. In order to carry
out its responsibility, BAB would establish an office in the project area.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (Section 3.03,
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
67.       Annual incremental production of alpaca wool at full development,
estimated to be fifteen years, would be about 330 m tons; potential llama wool
production after dehairing would be about 800 m tons annually. The average
annual family income of a credit beneficiary would increase from less than
US$100 to close to US$900. The welfare of the 3,000 families living in the
project core area, of which 2,000 are expected to be credit beneficiaries,
would improve as a result of better roads, health services, education, and
domestic water supply and waste disposal facilities. The provision of
training programs for women in the project area would improve their basic
skills and housekeeping practices. At full development, the annual incre-
mental value of handicraft items produced by about 3,400 families benefitting
from the handicraft credits is estimated at US$6.4 million. A typical artisan
family with three of its members actively engaged in making alpaca/llama/sheep
wool handicraft items could earn about US$1,800 per annum, about twice its
present income. We would expect that the institutional framework established
and the experience gained under this project would permit the implementation
of similar development programs in large areas of the Altiplano, and the
extension of the assistance to the wool textile industry to benefit many
additional Bolivian artisans.



- 19 -
68.       The overall economic rate of the project is 25%, excluding the social
infrastructure and some technical assistance components. The economic rate
of return is 18% for the alpaca/llama/vicuna development component, the cost
of which is US$5.1 million; 30% for collection, storage and processing, the
cost of which is US$4.9 million; and 70% for the handicraft component, the
cost of which is US$3.0 million.
Risk and Uncertainties
69.       All technical and institutional aspects of the proposed project
have been closely scrutinized during the preparation and appraisal stages
to detect and remedy possible risk factors. The analysis included a thorough
review of the overall project design to determine the number of components
which could be included in the project without overtaxing the implementing
capacity of the local staff. The possibility of excluding some of the compo-
nents in order to reduce the complexity of the project was given serious con-
sideration by the Government and the Bank/Association. Such an alternative
was rejected, however, as it was considered that an integrated system of wool
production, processing and marketing was necessary to minimize the risk that
the economic benefits of individual components would fall short of expectations
because of bottlenecks. Also, it was considered that the long-run advantages
of balanced socio-economic development in the Ulla Ulla region outweigh the
additional administrative burden. It was reasoned that each component com-
plemented closely the others and was necessary for helping the project achieve
its overall development objectives.
70.       Nevertheless, it is possible that delays and problems not foreseen
during preparation and appraisal will emerge during project implementation.
It is well recognized that the likelihood of such problems occurring is
particularly enhanced by the many innovative components of the project. In
view of these uncertainties, the project would have to be monitored very
closely and modifications may have to be introduced during project imple-
mentation as has been the case with the Ingavi Rural Development Project
(Loan No. 1211-BO).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and the
Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, the
Association and INFOL, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided in Article V, Section 1(d) of the articles
of Agreement of the Association and draft resolutions approving the proposed
loan and credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       The execution of the Financing Agreement between the Government
and INFOL is an additional condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
and the Development Credit Agreement (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan and



- 20 -
Development Credit Agreements). Special conditions of disbursement are that:
(i) the Borrower's Central Bank has entered into subsidiary loan agreements
with BAB and BE, respectively; and (ii) INFOL has made contractual arrangements
with INBOPIA (handicrafts), SNC (roads), Ministry of Social Security and
Public Health (health, water supply and waste disposal), Ministry of Education
(education), IDIF (solar energy), Wildlife and National Parks Division (vicuna
conservation and development).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of, respectively, the Bank and the
Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I recommended that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
December 30, 1977



0  a
*1                                                                                     u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  ~
-'  5                             Al                                                              S~~~~~~~l 
a  flu                                                                                          S~~~~~~~~~-
b-                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J                 S~~~~~~~~~~~~c 
* a, S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~~~~~~Z
- a uo  p. cc  *..a.  a.- v' o~~~~~ -  000  *  COO  COO     00 0 C                 000*.~cl  I
C  -  OW  fl* a* IS NW -  S,~fl O5~  CUtS             CCC  CNC     ~   ai NT* 
LI 0  0    CO   -  U   r2      -O   d  P.    000      CC%w            *0.  000 0      0  0 0              I
N  SN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ut  S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  



Z         ol                                                                                                  Is
41                                                                          'o
el 1.I
10 4                     Z -                                      a
S
V. I                                                                                                                    10
IL- .                                                                                                                       -. 1 -A'  .    I -- a, .1 01
IL
-o                                            Ml I. 11
el t
IL
- 0 - . .0 -0 I  I         i 9 I   I ..  : S 4 t
i
C.
'o
k                                                     a so
a
Ok -0 C   a
It I  I     ,         f!
2.
41
10
13 tr            .0         J
I     0
-v
a                     la
. 3 - I   I   Z- -1  - - I       I -   p     !! I                                                         Al
A-
Li
A r
-j    I - - -   . t       -. I  - - . . i : A
Im      I I            - .     -.
.Z    -   - .              . .  -. . i
Z
Zs          I
t     O.-        01
Z                                        L
3                                                                                                       3     79
.21
es                                                                                                                u
3        A t
>
I    Z
VI 1. VI 1. 1.
O
0                                                                                                        AN
a



A%4NEX 1I
Page 3 of S
BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amoont. In U0$ million)
A.too1                   P-o.iei .. a1.ce                               1969-     1973-     1976-     1980-
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                           1973          1974          1975          1976          1990          1985           1973      1976      1980      1985          1973      1976      1980      1985
Con..tant 1974 Price . OnlllIion UBS                                           C-th4 Rot.                              A. PerCent of CDY        .
CGross Boosnetix P-odoot                   1,606         1.686         1,787         1.903         2.41?         32 65            4.8       3.8       6.2       6.1         116.3     106.0     105.3     101.
Cot  -(o Tt,o of Trade (6-225                         -_Z             -87          -107          -122          -173                      .         -         -           -16.3      -6.0      -5.3      -5.
C-,.. D....tlo Inc,os                      1.381         1,8           Y.700         1,9            .9            ,9               .1       92        6.3       6.1         100.0     10.       10.       100
I~~o0to (Inol. 81703  ~ ~ ~ ~~~'407             519           613           600           812            985          15.0      13.8       7.9       3.9          29.1      ~.4      35.4.     31.9
Exot  Ind. (193    pomrt Cxeoc1ttY      -380          .588         - 460          -509          - 631         -967          16.4      10.2        5.5       8.9          27.5      28.3      27.3      31.3
Re....rce G.p                                 27           -69           155            91           182             18           -                   -         -             2.0       5.1       7.9       0.6
Goosoml.tloo Empeoditores       ~~~~1.185     1.336         1.474         1.496         1.913          2.461           4.9       8.1       6.3       5.2          85.8      83.3      83.4      79.6
I-v.t-ot Exp.ndLt.r.O (toel, stock.)         224           381           382           391           564           649          .4.5       20.4       9.6       2.8          16.2      21.8      246        1.
1,o.e.Eic Booing.                ~~~~          ~~~~196  350   227           300           382           631          .5.2      15.2       6.2       10.6          16.2      16.7      16.6      20.4
SMtono  Boing                            187           331           211           273           320           512          .2.6      13.4       4.1       9.9          13.5       15.2     13.9       16.6
MRECHA?fD0t TRADE
Ann-I Dots at CooToot Prices                                                                                 As Percet of Tot.1 Iworts
ood.                                       27.7          40.0          55.1          56.2          93.0         156.0         5.5      26.6       13.4      10.9          11.1      10.4       8.9       8.7
Otho Coosom_   Godod                       287           33.           62.0          60.7         111.2         192.5         5.9      28.4       16.3      11.6          11.3      11.2      10.6      10.8
F.e.                                        1.8           5.0           6.            7.3          117I96:.                            5893       12.5      10.9           0.7       1.3       1.1       1.1
R_, Moteciol. & Iot. Good.                 56.3          94.6         163.9         160.4         3D8.9         563.3        -2.0      41.8       17.8      12.8          22.6      29.7      29.5      51.7
CpEo GIod.                                 99.8         181.0         195.6         216.8         470.9         758.7        .2.0      29.4       21.5      10.0          40.0      40.0      44.9      42.7
Othor~ Go.ds                               35.2          36.4          44.5          40.0          71.9          88.5        .4.6       4.4        6.7      11.3          14.        7.4       5.0       5.0
Toto1 M-rch..dl*5 Iports                  249.5         390.8         538.0         540.6       1,047.3       1.778.6         -.0.     29.4       18.8      11.2         100.8     100.0     100.0     100.0
Ex,ports                                                                                                                                                                      -A. Forman of Totol1RE."rto
IOl_ory P-od-t.                           217.3         362.4         308.2         370.8         558.1       1,130.9         0.1      19.5       10.8      15.2          76.5      68.2      65.1      58.5
root                                       64.7         185.7         153.9         170.7         294 .4        788.9         8.3      38.2       14.6     21.8           22.8      381.4     34.3      40.8
of,, Crde P.t..lo,om                      (66.8)       (1856.8)      (111.4)       (114 .3)      (201.7)        (578.5)       (4.2)    (54.72    (15.3)     23.5         (16.55    (21.0)    (23.55    (29.9)
Monof.otored Good.                        -.,.j.          5.8           1.9           2.5          5.4.,          12.3       22.,        9.6      21.2      17.9           0.        0.4       0.6       0.7
T.t.1 M-h..osdi..  oport.                 283.9         553.9         444.0         54.4.0        857.9       1,832.1         3.0      24.2       12.1      17.6         100.0     100.0     200.0     100.0
M.rch..die Trod, Indieso
EnotPieIC     Idex                         51.3         100.0          93.4          97.6         131.7         188.0         9.3      23.9        7.8       7.6
Iport Frice Index                          81.3         100.0         111.0         118.1         159.1         223.8        10.2      13.3        7.7       7.0
T-r.of Trsds md*.                          81.7         100.0          84.1          82.6          82.8          84.4         5.8       0.4        0.1       0.4
VALUE ADSED BY SECTOR                                            As Per.e.t of Tota1 GDP
1973          1974          1975          1976          198           1983
AgrlcoltoCs                                25.0          25.2          25.4          25.0          25.           25.1          6.7       5.8       5.9       5.6
I.doxctr. xnd Mning.                       34.4          33.4          32.1          32.2          32.1          34.9         3.7       3.7        6.8       8.0
Serol-                                    ..0L6          41.4          42.5          42.8          42.1          40.0          5.8       7.5       3.0       5.1
Tot.1                                     100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0
PUBLIC  _NBAIC E                                            P-er.oet of CDP
(Ceotro.l Govos-mt)                           1973          1974          1975          1976
Curoont...cept.                            13.7          17.2          16.1          15.1
Corret Eop-ndItor..                        13.7          14.6          14.3          14.7
Bodgocoop laninN.             -            ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~~~~2.6  1.  0.4
Pobi,c Setr     oIn.6.6                                     12 .4          7.1           6.6
P.bIId Fixod C.plOO1  ao.ne                     .9          10.4          10.3          10.4
CURNEnT EXPENDSITUREB DETAILS                                                                                                     DETAIL ON
(A. -T.ts1 Co-Con EoP..ditore)              1973          1974          1975          1976                                     PUBLIC SeCTOR                       Ao P- ...n of Total
Cood, sod S-mices                          20.5          15.0          19.8          20.4                                     INVESTMENT PR009)21                        1976800
hagoo  od S,laris.                         61.6          52.7          51.3          52.0                                     A&rIdoltore                                  9.6
trnso   PYmoots                        12.           29.0          24.9          24.                                      Mixing snd HydrooxEbooC                    215.
Other                                       5.1~          3.3           4.0           2.8                                     Ind,1.try sod Po,,r                         25.
Ttot1 Corront fopeodlt.ro                 100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0                                     Teo...port sond Co7OidOtlO.                 19.0
________________ ________________ ________________ _______________ ________________ __________    PoblirSblic   sosod SSoc al1 lS rt iice222.
SELECTED IODICATONtS                          1969-         1973-         1976-         1980-                                     FIfIANCIW8,                         A. P--ornlf Toto1
1973          1976          1900          1985                                                                                19 77-80
ICOR                                           3.            3.0           3.6           3.31                                     Pri-so  Seot-r                             30.0
,m7ort Elsslct yS_..2.9                                      2.3           1.             .614                                   foreign Soure                               31.0
AIrs  00,0   RsO . Ets                   I1             1            .1             14                                    PIbICO Se'to                                39.0
M_ri_1o Nation.al S.oi.g. R.t.                 -.07            .30          .0.24                                                 Dm6 S.r-l.. RatiO9.
LnEFORCE AN                                                                                                                           VoI.e Addrd Po, 4oo4ker
OVTPi7T_PER WORKER                               In Thoosoode                It of 7,t.1               Groxth 0,05                   On US DoIllro    Per-ot of Auer....
i-97q  1975         ~~1970         1975             1970.75                   1970       1976      1970      1976
A91k-It.r                         1,~~~~~~307   1,481          64.4          57.9               2.5268                             305        40         42
lodostry and Mixing                            276           400          13.6          15.6               7.7                    1 .63.4. 9  1,4.00.7   247.7     202 1
S--r r6                                                      67           22.0          26.5                9.7                   1 215.9    1. 119.3    194.0     161.5
T.t51                                        2,029          2,539        100.0         100.0               4.6                      659.0      693.0     100.0     100.0



Page 4 of S
BOLiviA-     BAIANCE Of PAYMIENTS. *EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Current US$ eillio.)
Act.&I                                        Prov.ia..onII'llje-ted
1971           -1972            1973            1974            1975            1976             1980             198
A.   SU4OARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Seporte (tori. BPS)                                          .227. 5         -260.6          -332.4           -518.9         -682.4          -708.5         -1,292.5         -2,195.3
REport. (i..l. NFS)                                            198.3           224.7           310.1           518.1          510.3            601.1            997. 7         2aj11.L11
Re....rce Balance                                              .29.2           -35.9           -22.3            69.2          .172.1          -107.4           -294.3-4.
Factor Incon                                                   -17.0           -21.8           -24.8           -31.0          -31.4            -66.9           -114.7           .283.5
Net Inter.. c Poy.nanca                      (-~~~~   ~   ~~~~~~~9.4)  (-13.4)  (1.)        (-19.5)         (-23.8)         (3.)(9.)                         (131
Ote  ato Sevie     n     (Net)                         (7.6)           (-8.4)          (-6.8)         (-11.5)          (-7.6)          (-8.5)          (-23.2)          (-90.6)
Current Tr--fers (Net)7                                                         13.4.1.4                        12.0            13.0            14.0              7.5              4.0
Ccrrent A--o~t B.lnc                                           -39.1               3           -31.7           -50.2          -190.5          -140.3           -401.5           .527.7
Direct F-reig. ineton                                            1.9           .13.4             4.6            20.8            53.4            37.0            129.5            108.0
OffloicI Capitalr Crna8.0                                                                  10.0             9.0            50.5             7.0--
PublIc M,LT Loan. (Net)                                         50.1            0.515.7                         64.3            99.3           186.6            391.7
Oi.burae-et.                                                 (70.2)         (132.8)          (48.8          (118.6)         (168.7)         (25 9.6)         (457.1)          (631.8)
tepu~~~~~~~enca                             (-20.~~~~~~~~~I1)  (-32.3)      (-32.9          (544.3)         (-69.4)         (-73.0)         (-165.4)         (.327.1)
Other 1(617 &Loan..                                             11.9            15.1            16.9            13.0            19.7            15.3             20.4
SW DOaOIC6.                                                                     4.3              -                               ----
Other 160ccr tT.m. ErrorS 6I      ..o.                         -35.1~          -53.4           -38 .9          -33.5          .47.5            -52.7              -                -
Chant. In Net Reaervea (-Sncr.aae)              ~~~          ~~~6.  .16.81.                   -123.8           14.6            -52.9            .40 .S           .77.0
To.a   NtR MereN (End of Period)                               &1.5            58.3            42.9            166.7           112.1           165.0            382.4            640.3
s.  GRANT AND LOANS CNMI~8ThENTS
Ttal MALT Lor.a                                                89.3           180.0            78.2           173.7           392.6           384.7
58E0                             -               -               -               -              3~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.0  68.0
IDA                                                              6.               .0             6.0             6.              7.5             -
other 16,Itilat*raI                                             2.0 D27.                        112             35.0           10.              55.5
Go~ver,0t*                                                      35.2            71.7            34.1            64.0           109.2            33.3
Supp terN                                                        3.9            27.4            16.6             8.7            38.7            30.0
FinancIal In.tituttOoa                         ~~~~      ~     ~~~~      ~      ~~~23.3  23.1  5. 6.0           89.            197.9
Fiochr    1.ltttu                                               0.1            22.8             0.94            3.8            50.3'
Grant Elanat yE Tota &ICieteeota                                35.7            34.4            40.4            40.7            23.5            17.:4
AeNrsge 1ete r.at (5)                                            4.4             4.5             4.0             S.3             5.9             7.
A.verag  MPtatritY (Year.)                                      24.3            19.9            23 .0           is3.8           17 .9           13.8
0.  EXTERNAL DEBT                                                        Actual Debt Outdsteodint on Dec. 31. 1976                   DEBT ANfD DEBT SERVICE
Dieburoed OnlY      Per.cnt                                                                                   1973       1974         1975        1976
INtOI                                                                           27.3             2.7                          A.   MEDIUM & LONG TELN DEBT (DISBURBSED OIILT)            0.       69.
ID"A                                                                            53.2             5.2                                 Total Debt Out.t.ndig (DOD End of Period)         63.        697          779.9     1.014.3
OTHER PRJLTILATEBtAL                                                            66.              6.5                                 So-ludlo  Undiab.-ad                              767.9      889.4     1,202.7      1,508.5
COVER)cNTINS                                                                   43'5.8           43.40                                PublIc Debt ServI-                                 46.1       67.9         B0.0        103.3
SI:PPLIER S                                                                    66 .4             6.5                                   I.,eeat15.8                                                 17.3         23.6        35.3
FINRANCIAL INSTSI'UIONB                                                       243.3             24.0
BONDS                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~57.0  5.6                       D.   DEBT BURDEN
PUBLI CDEBT 8.1.5.                                                              65.3             61Debt Service Ratio                                                                   14.9       11.5         15.7        17.0
TOrAL PUBLIC KILT DEST                                                      1.014.3            100.0                                 Debt Service Patio -1/                             17.1       13.5         17.2        18.6
Debt Ser,ice/CDP                                    6.4        4.0          3.9          4.2
E.  DEST PRtOFILE                                                                                                                    C    e
Total Debt Ser,ice 1977-80/Total DOD End of 1976                               64.2                                                  Inte-at oo Total DOD/Total DOD                      2.5        2.5          3.0          3.5
Total Debt S-rvc      e Rtio                         7.3       9.8         10.3         10.1
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOB KALT DENT
Cr0.   Iihreo                        WSvra(nt.17)   16.6      22.9         24.7         36.6
Ne  roarnlprt       Id.Nl):I. 1.                                                   21.6
Net Tra...nOrNODI         r.hoaett                   -        39.6         44.9         58.3
E. EXPOSURE
IBROD DOD/Total DOD                                  3.6       3.0          2.7          2.7
Boob Gr007 Di.b./Total DOD                           8.4       8.9          9.0          7.9
188.D Debt S.r-c-/To to   Det   eric                4.6        5.0          2.0          2.6
Banb Grou   Dbt SerieTotal Debt Service              5.2       5.4          2.6          3.1
InrolBNet Dtrect lneot-.at Inc.e



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
1/
CONTRACTED PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT,   1969-1976
(USS millions)
2/
1969      1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976-
International OrRanizations          39.1      6.9      26.8      35.0      17.2      41.2     144.1     123.5
CAF                                -         -        0.1       2.0       1.2       -         38.1       6.3
IBRD                              23.3      -         -         -         -         -        32.0      68.0
IDA                                7.4       1.4      6.8       8.0       6.0       6.2       7.5        -
IDB                                8.5      5.5      19.9      25.0      10.0      35.0      66.5      49.2
Governments                          30.0      17.2      35.2      71.7      34.1      64.0     109.2      33.3
Argentina                          3.2      14.3      4.3       4.2        3.4       2.9       3.4       -
Czechoslovakia                     -         -        3.9       1.4       -         -          -         -
Germany F.R.                       1.7       1.4       -         -         -        28.6       -         5.2
United Kingdom                     1.4       -         -         6.8       -         -         -         -
USA                               22.7       1.5      25.3     40.0       26.5      28.8      26.9      25.3
USSR                               -         -         -        15.9       -         -         -         -
Others                             1.0       -         1.7       3.4       4.2       3.7      18.9       2.8
Suppliers' Credits                   11.5       1.6       3.9      27.4      16.6       8.7      39.7      30.0
Argentina                          -         -         1.6       5.1       5.9       1.6       1.7       0.3
Belgium                            -         -         -         -         5.8       0.1       -         -
Canada                                       -         -         -         3.7       -         -
Denmark                            0.7       1.3       -         0.8       0.2       -         3.0
Germany F.R.                       3.9       0.3       -         -         -         -        11.0       -
Israel                             -         -         -         -         -         -         5.5
Italy                              2.1       -         -        13.9       -         -         -         -
Japan                              -         -         2.0       6.4       -         -        10.8       4.4
Spain                              3.3       -         -         -         -         -         -         -
USA                                -         -         -         1.1       0.9       1.9       2.4       -
Others                             1.5       -         0.3       0.1       0.1       5.1       5.3      25.3
Private Banks                         1.3      _         23.3      23.1      9.9      56.0       89.3     197.9
Brazil                             -        -         12.0       7.9      4.7       13.5       -         2.8
USA                                1.3       -        10.0      12.S       1.5      34.3      63.9     144.0
Others                             -        -          1.3       2.4       3.7       8.2      25.4      51.1
Other                                14.1      4.1      0.1        22.7       0.4       3.8      10.3       -
Nationalization (USA)                 _        78.6                 -         0.7       _         _         _
3/
TOTAL          96.2     108.4      89.3     180.0      78.9     173.7     392.6     384.7
1/ Repayable in foreign currency only.
2/ Provisional
3/ Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source: Central Bank, IBRD Social and Economic Data Division.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A.  STATEIENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of November 30, 1977)
------- US$ million -------
Loan or                                                    (Amount less cancellations)
Credit (   Year      Borrower           Purpose           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                          23.3     38.6
261       1971      Bolivia        Livestock                        6.8        1.1
433       1973      Bolivia        Power                            6.0        0.1
455       1974      Bolivia       Mining/Manufacturing              6.2        1.5
561       1975      Bolivia        Agriculture                      7.5        5.0
1121       1975      ENFE           Railways              28.7                  4.2
1211       1976      Bolivia        Rural Development      9.5                  8.8
1238       1976      ENDE IV        Power                 25.0                 18.4
1290       1976      Bolivia        Mining/Manufacturing  10.0                 10.0
1324       1976      Bolivia        Water Supply and
Sewerage             11.5                11.5
1331       1976      Bolivia        Small-Scale Mining     12.0                11.9
1404       1977      Bolivia        Education and Voca-
tional Training      15.0                14.4
1422       1977      ENFE           Third Railway         35.0                 35.0
1423       1977      AASANA         Aviation              25.0                 25.0
1489       1977      Bolivia        Urban Development      17.0                17.0 1/
Total                               212.0      65.1
of which has been repaid              5.7      0.6
Total now outstanding               206.3     64.5
Amount sold                  0.1                -
of which has been repaid      -       0.1       -
Total now held by Bank              206.2     64.5
Total undisbursed                                        163.9
1/   Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of November 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                                          Amount in US$ million
Year         Obligator              Type of Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1973      Plasmar, S.A.           Cables and Plastic Products   0.3      0.1     0.4
1976      Banco Hipotecario
Nacional               Capital Market                         0.3     0.3
1976      Banco Industrial S.A.   Development Financing                  0.6     0.6
Total                          0.3     1.0     1.3
Repaid, cancelled or sold      0.2      -      0.2
Held by IFC                    0.1     1.0     1.1
Undisbursed                     -      0.4     0.4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million, June 25,
1971; Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
After implementation slowed down in 1974, the project is now pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and the credit should be disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit should be
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The cattle and grape components of the project are proceeding as
scheduled; there have been delays in the implementation of the sheep, sugar-
cane and annual crops components.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June,5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project progress has been satisfactory with performance targets
either having been attained or exceeded. The loan is expected to be fully
committed by early 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project, US$9.5 million, March 8, 1976;
Effective Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
There have been delays in the implementation of some components of
the project. Measures are being taken to speed up implementation of delayed
components.
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Project, US$25 million, June 2, 1976;
Effective Date: August 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1290-BO - Banco Industrial Mining and Industrial Credit Project,
US$10 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Funds for the mining component are not expected to be disbursed
until funds available under credit 455-BO are used up. Commitments expected
to start early 1978.
Loan 1324-BO - Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$11.5 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: December 10, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Government has requested that the water supply and sewerage
investments for the cities of Sucre and Potosi be cancelled inasmuch as these
cities are not prepared to proceed without substantial Government subsidies.
In spite of initial delays, the other components of the project are now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1331-BO - Small-Scale Mining Development Project, US$12 million,
October 15, 1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Project implementation has been delayed because of difficulties in
establishing procedures for the preparation of feasibility studies. Three
feasibility studies are expected to be completed by the end of the first
quarter of 1978.
Loan 1404-BO - Education and Vocational Training Project, US$15 million,
May 11, 1977; Effective Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1422-BO - Third Railway Project, US$35 million, June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
There was an initial delay in the preparation of tender documents
for spare parts. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1423-BO - Aviation Development Project; US$25 million, June 9, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
ULLA ULLA INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:             OAS and the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Peasant Affairs,
with Bank assistance
(c)  Project first presented to the Bank:       The project was identified
by a Bank mission in November
1975.
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:      November 1976
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:            March 7, 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                November 30, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             April 1978
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a) Government will ensure that profits of the commercial farm
would be shared with communities which contributed land
for project use and that after ten years of project
operations, the commercial farm would be transferred to
the communities for operation as a cooperative enterprise
(para. 28).
(b) Government and INFOL would negotiate the purchase of
dehairing technology from abroad and submit the best offer
for Bank consideration not later than June 30, 1977 (para.
42).
(c) Government and INFOL would submit a proposal to the Bank
before October 31, 1978 on the pricing mechanism and the
operating procedures of the price stabilization fund (para.
52).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) All requests for construction of new wool processing plants
or expansion of existing capacity would be approved only
after consultation with INFOL (para. 52).
(e) INFOL would not engage in purchasing or selling of handicraft
and would adequately compensate workers at the Pulacayo
processing plant which would terminate operation when the
new processing plant begins operations (para. 53).
(f) The Government would provide INFOL's staff (particularly
that of ASI) with adequate incentives (para. 50).
(g) INFOL would establish an ad hoc committee in the project
area, to provide advise on matters related to programs undertaken
under the project, annual investment plans, and any outstanding
issues which might arise between the participating farmers and
project management (para. 55).
(h) The evaluation and monitoring unit in Ulla Ulla would be
established by June 1, 1978 and quarterly-progress reports
would be sent to the Bank within two months of the end of
each quarter (para. 56).
(i) For the water supply and waste disposal facilities, MPSSP
would carry out detailed investigations to determine priority
areas to be served and availability of aquifers and prepare
a plan of operation before purchasing pumps (para. 60).
(j) The Government would support the extension of the moratorium
on all killing, marketing and exporting of vicunas' skin or
wool beyond 1979 (para. 63).
(k) The Government would provide sub-loans to project benefi-
ciaries according to lending terms and conditions agreeable
to the Bank and funds accruing in the project account from
repayments of all sub-loans would be made available for
further lending for similar purposes (para. 47).
2.   Condition of effectiveness would be that:
The Financing Agreement has been executed in behalf of the
Government and INFOL.
3.   Conditions of disbursement would be that:
The Central Bank's has entered into subsidiary loan agreement
with BAB and BE, respectively; and INFOL has made contractual
arrangements with INBOPIA, SNC, Ministry of Social Security,
and Public Health, Ministry of Education, IDIF, Wildlife and
National Parks Commission.






69' 30                   tt/1s        t/'                         69' 00'
/  / ~~~~~~~~~O~PeIlecht,co~
pE R uX
BO LI V IA           ... A)                        /
ULLA ULLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ,X/
Alpaca - Llama - Vicuno5/<tX=\               -   :.Xi-X 
PROJECT ROAD ALTERNATIVES            S/                          //,/F . ........ .. - .To
- Alternative  1, Existing   Ro ad to   be  Improved  ,;/   ,c.   ........  / / n
-    1 Alternative 2, New Road to be Built       9bc     5Z,/8 FD   /
E:   Project Unit Heodquarters                             9 i/.  <  -,
Project Boundary                               -   : F''  //g,',,n4;
-                        '   \  < F | lar~~~~ ',.= 'o'j  '
I  =--gHumid   Grazing Areas  I                  V,         r   w   >
K/ ;,Dry  Grazing   Areas |v}~i\,PKW
Tv,o Way Grcavel Road|                   I/   >/,       .   S/
One Way Gravel Road$ /'//F-<X </x 
+ -+- ++ Interrupted Road     F/gj>0Sfa4,'/>/r.i
--Paths                   N>'<l ,X/:t/>                      $      t
..... Horse Trails                     ,j C{F &n    f''/,'  , 1 // /|T
o 0: Cornmunities and Towns           y     />;:i              ,,t
Rivers; //DM ,o                               ,      ///    i,
.  --- ~International Boundaries     e:2X''tK /<'/        rlaCo  /
K ILOME T ERIS
69' 30'
_   moInrr tional Boundaries  0 .:J 
W , r  ,<, _ _D.ptaaent Bo-rdaries -1tfoai          (\       -t      15-30'-
\PANDO1l                       f  3 
t2t z ! \, BRAZzL / > P~~~~~~uerro Acost 
B  L I VFA~~~~~~~L>            -I J D.
(   _,COCHASAMBA                              ^) 
'fORURO ).4SANTACRZ                         %   \;o      >
OLV ._-~>;  >a ZA, ~A                      SL (  / C i
iL; < POTOSi bHU(U AX  '2A TC/ T/CA  CA  K 0   A '                          - 90
IF  \  ETARIJA   PARAGUAY  7 he boundiea shown on tsmp 6  ol t<-r  
Alpaca  - La   - V 1. imply endotnet  tonm  the  Escoma
( OAm0   o
ARGENTINA   1  W-ld &mk ml ia ffifi'>--To Pue to C7rbuo



