CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 762 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Ulla Ulla Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 6, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 762 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Project, with the exception of Parts A.3 and C.1
thereof, will be carried out by Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Lanero with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Lanero part of the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, the Association
and Instituto Nacional de Fomento Lanero;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "INFOL" means Instituto Nacional de Fomento Lanero, a
decentralized public entity under the authority of the Borrower's
Ministerios de Asuntos Campesinos y Agropecuarios e Industria,
Comercio y Turismo, established by Decreto Supremo No. 15138 of
November 25, 1977 and operating pursuant to the laws of the
Borrower;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank, the Association and INFOL of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and INFOL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement;
(d) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and the schedule to the Loan Agreement;
(e) "Banco Central" means Banco Central de Bolivia;
(f)  "BAB" means Banco Agricola de Bolivia, an agricultural
bank organized and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(g) "BE" means Banco del Estado, a commercial bank organized
and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(h) "BAB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between Banco Central and BAB
pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and "BAB Subsidiary Loan" means the
loan provided for in the BAB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i) "BE Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between Banco Central and BE
pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time; and "BE Subsidiary Loan" means the
loan provided for in the BE Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j) "Sub-loan" means a loan to finance working capital or an
Investment Project, made or proposed to be made by BAB to a farmer
or a farmer group or by BE to a textile artisan or a textile
artisan group, as the case may be, in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Agreement;
(k) "Investment Project" means a project consisting of on-
farm improvements or herd development to be carried out by a
farmer or a farmer group, or of the development of an artisanal
handicraft business to be carried out by a textile artisan or a
textile artisan group, as the case may be, and to be financed by
means of a Sub-loan;
(1) "Project Area" means an area of about 300,000 ha in
the Franz Tamayo and Saavedra Provinces, both in the Departamento
de la Paz of the Borrower;
(m) "INBOPIA" means Instituto Boliviano de Pequeffa Industria
y Artesanfa, a decentralized public entity under the authority
of the Borrower's Ministerio de Industria, Comercio y Turismo,
established by Decreto Supremo No. 11734 of August 28, 1974 and
operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(n) "FOMO" means Servicio Nacional de Formaci6n de Mano de
Obra, the Borrower's National Manpower Development Service, a
decentralized public service institution under the authority of
the Ministerio de Trabajo y Desarrollo Laboral;
(o) "MPSSP" means Ministerio de Previsi6n Social y Salud
Piblica, the Borrower's Ministry in charge of Social Security and
Health;


﻿-4-
(p) "FOTRAMA" means Fomento al Trabajo Manual, a cooperative
established by Resoluci6n No. 218, dated September 28, 1962, of
Consejo Instituto Nacional de Cooperativas (INALCO);
(q) "ASI" means the agricultural and social infrastructure
division of INFOL;
(r) "IDIF" means Instituto de Investigaciones Fisicas, a
research institute established by a Resoluci6n of the Consejo
Universitario of the University of San Andres, adopted on
February 12, 1952; and
(s) "Peso" and "b$" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures Yaade (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1988, and ending October 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. INFOL is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with the excep-
tion of any action relating to Parts A.3 and C.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause INFOL to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Financing
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable INFOL to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time, available to INFOL under a financing agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and INFOL under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association including,
inter alia, the following:


﻿. - 6 -
(i) the proceeds of the Credit to be made available to
INFOL for purposes of carrying out Part B of the
Project, shall be lent in Pesos, at an interest
rate of 12 per cent per annum and shall be repay-
able in Pesos within a period of fifteen years
including five years of grace;
(ii) the proceeds of the Credit to be made available to
INFOL for purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the
Project, shall be lent in Pesos, free of interest,
and shall be repayable in Pesos within a period of
fourteen years including four years of grace; and
(iii) the remainder of the proceeds of the Credit
referred to above in this paragraph, shall be made
available to INFOL by way of grant.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financ-
ing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) (i) open with Banco Central an account for the purpose
of recording all receipts and payments of money for or in connec-
tion with Part A.3 of the Project; and (ii) deposit in such
account upon withdrawal from the Credit Account, such amounts in
Pesos as shall be equivalent to the amounts withdrawn by the
Borrower from time to time from the Credit Account for Sub-loans
made by BAB;
(b) (i) open with Banco Central an account for the purpose
of recording all receipts and payments of money for or in connec-
tion with Part C.1 of the Project; and (ii) deposit in such
account upon withdrawal from the Credit Account, such amounts in
Pesos as shall be equivalent to the amounts withdrawn by the
Borrower from time to time from the Credit Account for Sub-loans
made by BE;
(c) cause Banco Central (1) to enter with BAB into the BAB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (2) to enter with BE into the BE


﻿-7-
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, under which Banco Central shall lend
to BAB and BE such amounts as shall have been credited to their
respective accounts pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) hereof on
such terms and conditions as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, and
such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the
Association;
(d) pay Banco Central a service commission of 0.25% per
annum of the principal amount outstanding of the Sub-loans; and
(e) cause Banco Central, BAB and BE to use all funds accru-
ing from the carrying out of Parts A.3 and C.1 of the Project
for: (i) financing by BAB of on-farm investments and herd develop-
ment by farmers raising alpaca and llama livestock; and (ii)
financing by BE of raw materials, equipment and workshops for
textile artisans.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause BAB to establish an
office in the Project Area at such a location and with such staff,
facilities and resources as shall be necessary to assist INFOL in
the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall promptly commence negotia-
tions for the acquisition of llama dehairing technology and, not
later than June 30, 1978 or such later date as the Association
shall agree, furnish to the Association, for its approval, a
proposal for such acquisition.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall keep or cause to be kept
such separate accounts and records as shall be adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of Banco Central, BAB, BE and any departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BAB and BE to have: (i) the
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the


﻿- 8 -
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such year as
so audited, (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause all roads and drinking water supply facilities
included in the Project Area to be adequately maintained and cause
the necessary repair thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices;
(b) (i) operate and maintain the health facilities included
in Part E of the Project in conformity with appropriate public
health practices; (ii) staff such facilities with adequate person-
nel; and (iii) provide such personnel with such incentives as
shall be appropriate;
(c) cause all educational facilities included in Part G of
the Project to be adequately maintained and cause the necessary
repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
educational and engineering practices; and
(d) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the above purposes.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall staff INFOL with competent
personnel in sufficient numbers and provide such personnel with
such incentives as shall be appropriate in the circumstances.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure that all requests for permits to construct new wool
processing plants or expand the capacity of existing plants will
be approved only after consultation with INFOL.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall use its best efforts in its
discussions with the governments of Argentina, Chile and Peru to
achieve a reasonable extension beyond 1979 of the moratorium
established under an international agreement dated August 16, 1969
prohibiting all killing, marketing and exporting of vicuffas'
skins or fleece.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
Genaral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) INFOL shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of INFOL under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that INFOL will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) Decreto Supremo No. 15138 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a
way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of INFOL to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of INFOL or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and INFOL; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) to (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Sectior 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿.- 10 -
(a) the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and INFOL; and
(b) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, other than the condition set forth in Section
6.01 (b) thereof, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by INFOL, and is legally binding upon INFOL in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and INFOL and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and INFOL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 6, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 (e), 3.03, 4.01 through 4.06 of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFINANZAS                        BX 5332
La Paz
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By Is/ Carlos Iturralde
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment, materials           4,400,000
and vehicles:
(a) imported                                  100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally pro-                              68%
cured
(2) Civil works                    1,800,000       68%
(3) Consultants' ser-              1,500,000       100%
vices and overseas
training
(4) Project adminis-               5,500,000       68%
tration and operat-
ing costs except
for Part C.3 of the
Project
(5) Sub-loans under                3,300,000       68% of amounts
Parts A.3 and C.1                             disbursed for
of the Project                                 such Parts
(6) Unallocated                    1,500,000
TOTAL         18,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Bor-ower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments
for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit decreases or increases, the
Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) on account of Category (5) for Part A.3 of the Project
before the execution and delivery of the BAB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and on account of Category (5) for Part C.1 of the
Project before the execution and delivery of the BE Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(c) on account of any of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4),
by any of the agencies or departments of the Borrower referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement unless such agency
or department has made, to the satisfaction of the Bank and the
Association, the applicable contractual arrangement with INFOL
referred to in such Section.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the comprehensive and integrated
rural development of the Project Area to promote an orderly
expansion of the alpaca/llama agro-industry, to conserve and
expand the vicuffa resources, to improve the economic and social
conditions of about 3,000 families living in said area, and to
promote handicraft production of low-income families. The Project
includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Development of Livestock (alpaca, llama, vicuffa)
1.   Experiment Station - Establishment of an Experiment
Station with laboratory equipment and facilities for
research in alpaca/llama parasitology, bacteriology,
biology, pasture and nutrition, and construction of an
irrigation scheme on about 20 hectares of the Experiment
Station to produce forage for use of said Station and
a supply of grass seeds for utilization by farmers
in the Project Area, and to determine the technical and
economic feasibility of using irrigation to increase the
carrying capacity of about 8,000 ha of range land in the
Project Area.
2.   Commercial Farm - Establishment of a Commercial Farm on
about 2,500 hectares of range land in the Project Area,
operating with about 2,000 alpacas and about 500 llamas
and employing improved range and animal husbandry tech-
niques currently available as well as those developed
at the Experiment Station, to serve as a demonstration
unit to farmers in the Project Area and to gain their
confidence in the Project.
3.   On-farm Investments and Herd Development - Provision of
credit by BAB to individual farmers or groups of farmers
in the Project Area and other areas of the Altiplano for
the construction of spray-bath facilities, holding
corrals, shearing sheds, and fiber classification and
storage sheds, and for the purchase of mechanical
shearing equipment, drugs, animals, fences, medical
kits, hand shears, scales, fiber classifying tables and
identification tags, all to improve traditional shearing
techniques and fiber handling and classifying practices


﻿- 16 -
and to provide facilities required to put a sound animal
husbandry and range management program into effect.
4.   Extension Services - Provision of extension services to
farmers in the Project Area in such areas as improved
technology for animal husbandry, including veterinary
services, partly in the form of training of said farmers
in simple procedures for control and prevention of
internal and external parasites and first-aid and other
practices, improved practices in herd and range manage-
ment, improved shearing techniques, and preparation and
execution of farm development plans.
5.   Vicufa Conservation and Development - Provision of
facilities, equipment and vehicles and recruitment and
training of about six additional guards to strengthen
the protection scheme for vicuffas and to introduce
research and experimentation activities designed to
establish a systematic vicuffa management program in
the Ulla Ulla Vicuffa Reserve and throughout Bolivia.
Part B:  Wool Collection, Storage and Processing
1.   Collection - Enlargement of the alpaca, llama and sheep
wool collection network to all producing areas, by
renting larger collection rooms and building five new
collection posts, and improvement of the collection
facilities, by equipping all collection posts with
adequate furniture and office equipment and supplying
said posts with vehicles to facilitate the flow of raw
material to La Paz.
2.   Storage - Construction of a warehouse in the El Alto
section of La Paz, close to the spinning plant, to
facilitate the seasonal collection of alpaca, llama and
sheep wool, and purchase of two passenger vehicles,
three hydraulic wool pressers, two forklift trucks,
furniture and office equipment for the warehouse's
operation.
3.   Processing - Construction of a new spinning plant in
La Paz, with a total annual capacity of about 300 m
tons on a two-shift basis, and purchase of all neces-
sary machinery and equipment, including a scouring
unit, and provision of consultants' services to provide


﻿- 17 -
technical know-how, to put the mill control program into
effect and to set up a training program for the plant's
personnel.
Part C:   Handicraft
1.   Credit - Provision of credit by BE to about 3,400 small
rural and urban artisan families in the Departments of
La Paz and Cochabamba working with alpaca, llama and
sheep wool to finance their capital requirements for an
increased production and exports of typical handicraft
items.
2.   Technical Assistance - Provision of technical assistance
to INBOPIA to help organize artisan production and
marketing groups (including the production of radio
programs in Aymarg and Quechua languages), achieve
quality control and standards, prepare a national
catalogue of handicraft to promote exports of handi-
crafts, supervise FOMO's training program for partici-
pating artisans, and coordinate the carrying out of the
credit program, and provide technical assistance to
artisans.
3.   Purchasing Fund - Establishment of a purchasing fund of
$100,000 equivalent to enable INBOPIA to ensure competi-
tive market prices of the handicraft items produced by
artisan organizations.
Part D:   Roads
Construction and improvement of about 54 km of all-
weather roads in the Project Area to ensure the flow of
goods and services to and from the Project Area and the
access of ASI personnel to farmer groups throughout the
Project Area, and purchase of equipment for the con-
struction and maintenance of the roads in the Project
Area.
Part E:   Health
Construction of a medical post with six beds near the
Experiment Station and Commercial Farm included in the
Project, installation of micro health posts in about 30
villages in the Project Area, and equipping the health


﻿- 18 -
facility at Charazani, and training of community health
workers.
Part F:   Water Supply and Waste Disposal
Installation of about 1,200 pumps and about 1,000 pit
privies to provide potable water supply and waste
disposal facilities to about 2,000 families in the
Project Area.
Part G:   Education
Construction of an intermediate school for about 50
students, of about 25 new classrooms and of houses for
teachers, renovation of existing classrooms, and provi-
sion of textbooks and learning materials and of a
teachers' training program.
Part H:   Promotion of Women
Construction of five Mothers' Club Centers in strategic
locations in the Project Area with adequate furniture
and equipment, provision of training in handicraft
skills and marketing, and of assistance to about 2,000
women in the Project Area to improve their health and
nutrition, home care practices, and education. Training
of talented local women to become promotion agents.
Part I:   Technology
1.   Provision of technical assistance to enable INFOL to
carry out a research program for the development of a
technology in llama fiber dehairing or, subject to the
prior approval of the Association referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement, acquisition of llama fiber
dehairing technology.
2.   Provision of technical assistance for the development
of simple low-cost solar energy collection and utili-
zation devices for use in the Altiplano, including the
services of a solar energy expert to assist IDIF in
developing and testing solar devices for use in rural


﻿- 19 -
areas and fellowships abroad, and purchase of equipment
and tools for the workshop used by IDIF at the
Uiversity of San Andr6s.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
BAB Subsidiary Loan, BE Subsidiary Loan,
Sub-Loans
A.   Subsidiary Loan Terms and Conditions
1.   Banco Central shall finance, under the BAB and BE
Subsidiary Loans, 100% of the Sub-loans.
2.   The BAB and BE Subsidiary Loans shall be repayable in
Pesos by BAB and BE, respectively, to Banco Central in the same
measure and on the same dates as the Sub-loans are repaid to BAB
and BE.
3.   The outstanding principal amount of the BAB and BE Sub-
sidiary Loans shall bear interest at the rate of: (i) 10% per
annum in the case of the BAB Subsidiary Loan and (ii) 8% per annum
in the case of the BE Subsidiary Loan.
4.   The Borrower shall assume the financial risk on Sub-
loans made by BAB. BE shall assume the financial risk on Sub-loans
made by it.
5.   BAB and BE shall undertake to make Sub-loans in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph B of this Schedule.
6.   (a) BAB and BE shall undertake that any Sub-loan shall
be made on terms whereby BAB and BE shall obtain, by written
contract (with a farmer or a farmer group in the case of BAB, and
with an artisan or an artisan group in the case of BE), or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the Association, BAB and BE,
including the right of INFOL (for Sub-loans made by BAB), and
INBOPIA (for Sub-loans made by BE) to: (i) require the farmer or
the farmer group or the artisan or artisan group, as the case may
be, to carry out the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate technical and
financial practices and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require
that (1) goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan be purchased through regular commercial channels, at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of service facilities and (2) the goods
financed by the Sub-loan be used exclusively in the carrying out


﻿- 21 -
of the Investment Project and the operation thereof, and be
adequately maintained; (iii) require that the farmer or the farmer
group or thp artisan or the artisan group, as the case may be,
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice; (iv) obtain all such information as the
Borrower, the Bank, the Association, BAB or BE shall reasonably
request relative to the foregoing; and (v) suspend or terminate
the right of the farmer or the farmer group or the artisan or the
artisan group, as the case may be, to the use of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan, and accelerate the maturity of the Sub-loan, upon
failure by such farmer or farmer group or artisan or artisan
group, to perform its obligations under the contract with BAB or
BE, respectively.
(b) BAB or BE, as the case may be, shall exercise its
rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the Association,
and BAB or BE; (ii) comply with its obligations under the BAB or
BE Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
7.   BAB shall undertake to channel about 70% of the credit for
herd development to farmers or farmer groups in the Project Area,
and to lend the balance to farmers or farmer groups in the central
part of the Altiplano.
8.   BAB shall give priority in selecting sub-borrowers to farmers
who live on the farm and engage in raising alpacas and agree to
accept ASI's supervision of the Investment Project.
B.   Sub-Loan Terms and Conditions
1.   Any Sub-loan, other than a Sub-loan to finance working
capital, shall be made on the basis of an Investment Project and
the application for such Sub-loan shall be prepared with the
assistance of: (i) ASI in the case of application at BAB and (ii)
INBOPIA in the case of application at BE.
2.   Sub-loans shalL be denominated and shall be repayable
in Pesos.
3.   Sub-loan contracts shall include the following provi-
sions:


﻿- 22 -
(a) The principal amount outstanding of each Sub-loan
shall bear interest at the rate of twelve per cent (12%) per
annum.
(b) The repayment terms shall be within the limits set
forth below:
Final
Maximum             Maturity
Type of                         Grace            Including
Sub-loan                       Period           Grace Period
(Years)             (Years)
(i) On-farm investment
and herd development         4                  10
(ii) Handicraft development        1                   6
4.   BAB shall obtain security in the form of a lien on the
animals of the farmer or farmer group to whom a Sub-loan is made.
BE shall obtain security in the form of (i) a lien on machinery
and equipment in the case of a Sub-loan made for capital invest-
ments, and (ii) a lien on raw materials and finished products in
the case of a Sub-loan made for working capital.
5.   BAB and BE shall adopt simplified procedures for sub-
loan application and approval.


