CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1510 BO
Loan Agreement
(Ulla Ulla Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1510 BO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (herein-
after called the Development Credit Agreement) the Association
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the eitent prac-
ticable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expendi-
tures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; and
(D) the Project, with the exception of Parts A.3 and C.1
thereof, will -e carried out by Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Lanero with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Lanero part of the proceeds of the Loan as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, the Association
and Instituto Nacional de Fomento Lanero;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement, and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such
agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Development Credit
Agreement and all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the


﻿-3-
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
SectiLon 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.9%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the. Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. INFOL is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with the excep-
tion of any action relating to Parts A.3 and C.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower undertakes towards the Bank
the same obligations it is undertaking towards the Association
pursuant to Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, with the same force and effect as if such provisions were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that all references to
the Association and the Credit in such Articles shall be deemed
to be references to the Bank and the Loan, respectively.
Section 3.02. All action taken by, and any notice given
to, the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
shall, unless the context shall require otherwise, be deemed to be
taken or given also by or to the Bank.


﻿-4 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien
on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fi d, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) INFOL shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of INFOL under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that INFOL will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) Decreto Supremo No. 15138 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a
way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of INFOL to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement; and
(d) t'e Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of INFOL or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and INFOL; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) to (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and INFOL; and


﻿-6-
(b) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, other than the condition set forth
in Section 6.01 (b) thereof, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by INFOL, and is legally binding upon INFOL in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and INFOL and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and INFOL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 6, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.2. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFINANZAS                       BX 5332
La Paz


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Streat, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By Is/ Carlos Iturralde
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1983
through   April 1, 1998                     300,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-9-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.35%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.10%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


