CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1510 BO
CREDIT NUMBER 762 BO
Project Agreement
(Ulla Ulla Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO LANERO
Dated April 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1510 BO
CREDIT NUMBER 762 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO LANERO (hereinafter
called INFOL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars
($9,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that INFOL agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that INFOL agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
(C) by a financing agreement between the Borrower and INFOL,
part of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit provided for under
the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement, respec-
tively, will be made available to INFOL on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS INFOL, in consideration of the Bank's and the Asso-
ciation's entering into, respectively, the Loan Agreement and the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble
to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. INFOL shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with the exception
of Parts A.3 and C.1 thereof, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agro-industrial practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, INFOL shall:
(a) employ the following consultants and experts on the
dates and for the purposes indicated hereinafter: (i) not later
than July 1, 1978, an expert in administration and management
to assist INFOL's general manager in coordinating INFOL's activi-
ties and in the management of the Project; (ii) not later than
July 1, 1978, consultants to carry out a research program of llama
dehairing; (iii) not later than January 1, 1979, engineering
consultants and a textile expert to provide technical expertise
for the operation of the spinning plant, to establish grading
norms and fiber pricing mechanisms and to set up a training
program for the plant's personnel; (iv) not later than January 1,
1979, an expert in solar energy to assist in developing and
testing simple and low-cost solar energy devices for heating,
cooking, pumping, drying and greenhouse agriculture; and (v)
experts in pasture and forage and in animal breeding and produc-
tion;
(b) to provide support to INBOPIA on all aspects of the
handicraft component of the Project, make appropriate arrangements
with INBOPIA for the employment of (i) an expert in organization
and management and an expert in marketing and fair organization,
not later than July 1, 1978; and (ii) consultants in textile
engineering and design, not later than January 1, 1979;
(c) make appropriate arrangements with the project unit
established under Loan No. 1404-BO (Education and Vocational
Training Project) for the employment, not later than June 1,
1978, of an education expert to be seconded to INFOL for the
carrying out of the education component of the Project;


﻿-3-
(d) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of the consultants and experts referred to in para-
graphs (a) to (c) of this Section shall be satisfactory to the
Bank and the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) In carrying out Parts A.5, C.2 and 3, D, E,
F, G, and 1.2 of the Project, INFOL shall enter into such con-
tractual arrangements with the agencies and departments of the
Borrower concerned with the carrying out of such Parts namely,
Servicio de Parques Nacionales y Vida Silvestre (Part A.5),
Instituto Boliviano de Pequeffa Industria y Artesanfa (Part C.2
and 3), Servicio Nacional de Caminos (Part D), Ministerio de
Previsi6n Social y Salud PGblica (Parts E and F), Ministerio
de Educaci6n (Part G), and Instituto de Investigaciones Fisicas
(Part 1.2), as shall be appropriate for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, INFOL shall:
(i) enter into contractual arrangements with INBOPIA
requiring INBOPIA. to enter into contractual
arrangements with: (1) BE for assistance to BE in
the carrying out of the credit program included in
Part C.1 of the Project; and (2) FOMO for the
training program for participating artisans and
radio broadcasting in Spanish, Aymara and Quechua;
and
(ii) enter into contractual arrangements with MPSSP
requiring MPSSP to: (1) enter into contractual
arrangements with the Department of Public Health
of the University of San Andr&s for the carrying
out of the training, monitoring, supervision and
evaluation of the health program included in Part E
of the Project; (2) conduct detailed investigations
to determine priority areas to be provided with
potable water and availability of aquifers in such
areas; and (3) prepare a plan of operation before
purchasing pumps.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) INFOL undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and 1he Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by INFOL to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise
agree, INFOL shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) INFOL shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contracts documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Associ-
ation shall reasonably request.
(b) INFOL: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Bank's and the Association's representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank and the Asso-
ciation at regular intervals all such information as the Bank and
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) INFOL shall enable the Bank's and the Association's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of INFOL and any relevant
records and documents.


﻿-5-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank, the
Association and INFOL, INFOL shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Bank, the Association and INFOL of their respective obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan and the Credit.
Section 2.07. INFOL shall, not later than April 1, 1978
or such later date as the Bank and the Association shall agree,
furnish to the Bank and the Association a satisfactory proposal
for the purchase of alpacas for the Experiment Station and
Commercial Farm included in Part A.1 and 2 of the Project.
Section 2.08. INFOL shall sell to FOTRAMA the alpaca wool
necessary to meet FOTRAMA's annual requirements, subject to
an annual ceiling of 50 metric tonsof alpaca wool.
Section 2.09. INFOL shall, not later than October 31, 1978
or such later date as the Bank and the Association shall agree,
furnish to the Bank and the Association, for its comments, a
proposal for: (i) the establishment of (1) a pricing mechanism
for alpaca and llama wool and yarn, and (2) a stabilization fund
initially provided with contributions from the Borrower and
subsequently supported by profits from the spinning plant to
support a price guarantee scheme; and (ii) the putting into
operation of such price mechanism and stabilization fund.
Section 2.10. INFOL shall, not later than September 1, 1978
or such later date as the Bank and the Association shall agree,
furnish to the Bank and the Association a proposal for the ade-
quate compensation of the workers at the processing plant in
Pulacayo upon the termination of such plant's operation.
Section 2.11. INFOL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, INFOL shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 2.12. (a) INFOL shall, at the request of the Bank and
the Association, exchange views with the Bank and the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, The performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan
and the Credit.
(b) INFOL shall promptly inform the Bank and the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere w;-h,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purpose?." Df
the Loan and the Credit, or the performance by INFOL of its obli-
gations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.
Section 2.13. INFOL shall establish, not later than July 1,
1978 or such later date as the Bank and the Association shall
agree, and thereafter maintain a monitoring unit for collecting
data to measure the physical, financial, economic and social
impact of the Project, and furnish to the Bank and the Association
quarterly reports on the program and operating results of the
Project within two months of the end of each quarter.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of INFOL
Section 3.01. (a) INFOL shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   INFOL shall at all times operate and maintain its
equipment and property, the equipment and property held by INFOL
on behalf of the Borrower, and from time to time make all neces-
sary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with appro-
priate engineering, construction and agro-industrial practices.
Section 3.02. (a) INFOL shall at all times manage its
affairs, plan the future expansion of its operations and maintain
its financial position, all in accordance with appropriate busi-
ness, financial and agro-industrial principles and practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-7-
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the paragraph
(a) of this Section, INFOL shall obtain the approval of the Bank
and the Association before making any replacement in the position
of the Gerente General and the chief of ASI.
(c) INFOL shall refrain from extending its operations to the
production or marketing of handicrafts.
Section 3.03. INFOL shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
and the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. INVOL shall establish an ad hoc technical com-
mittee in the Project Area to advise INFOL on matters relating
to the various programs undertaken under the Project, INFOL's
investment plans, and any issues arising between participating
farmers and INFOL. Such committee shall be chaired by the chief of
ASI, and shall have as members the unit chiefs of ASI, two repre-
sentatives of the participating farmers and two women from the
Project Area, the last four members being elected and serving
one-year terms.
Section 3.05. INFOL shall share the profits of the Commercial
Farm included in Part A.2 of the Project with the communities
which contributed land for the establishment of the Farm's facili-
ties and, ten years after the start of the Farm's operation,
transfer title to the Farm to such communities for operation of
the Farm as a cooperative enterprise. To that end, INFOL shall,
not later than January 1, 1982 or such later date as the Bank and
the Association shall agree, furnish to the Bank and the Associa-
tion a proposal setting forth the terms and conditions of such
transfer to such communities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. INFOL shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. INFOL shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,


﻿-8-
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Associa-
tion; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank and the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank and the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of INFOL
and the audit thereof as the Bank and the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement and the Development
Credit Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, the Association and of INFOL thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Loan Agreement or the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with its terms; or
(ii)  a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)  If the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agree-
ment terminates in accordance with its terms before the date spec-
ified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank or the
Association, as the case may be, shall promptly notify INFOL of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it :hall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as sl'ch party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank.
International Bank for
ReConstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Wa,,hington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For INFOL:
Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Lanero
La Paz, Bolivia


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:
INFOL
La Paz
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of INFOL may be taken or executed by
its Gerente General or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and INFOL shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have Laused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO LANERO
By Is! Miguel Zalles
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B and/or D hereof, contracts
for the purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding under the Project, INFOL shall prepare and for-
ward to the Bank and the Association as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request; the Bank
and the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. INFOL
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   All equipment and vehicles required by the agencies and
departments of the Borrower referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement and to be procured on the basis of international compet-
itive bidding shall be grouped into appropriate bid packages and
be procured by INFOL.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of the health centers,
schools, trading posts and storage facilities, spinning plant,
dehairing research facilities, and the Project facilities in
Ulla Ulla may be procured by competitive bidding on the basis
of local advertising.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of laboratory equipment, equip-
ment for the commercial farm and schools, equipment for the


﻿- 12 -
health, project administration, water and waste disposal facili-
ties, and for the solar energy and handicraft component estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less may be procured by
competitive bidding on the basis of local advertising.
3.   Second-hand equipment for the llama dehairing research
facilities may be procured by negotiated purchase.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bolivia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Bolivia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bolivia.


﻿- 13 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) A_l evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Road work, installation of drinking water wells, and con-
struction of pit privies may be carried out by force account.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank and the
Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment,
materials and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank and the Association, for their comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding


﻿- 14 -
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's and the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank and the Association of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association, in sufficient time for their review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of Lhe bids received, and
such other information as the Bank and the Association shall
reasonably request. The Bank and the Association shall, if they
determine that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's and the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank and the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Bank and the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from, respectively, the Loan
or Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Credit and not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank and the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from, respectively, the Loan or Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
and the Association shall reasonably request. The Bank and the
Association shall, if they determine that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


