Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 16755
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2912-CM)
June 24, 1997
Agriculture Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year          CFA Flranc per US$
1985                    449.26
1986                    346.30
1987                     300.54
1988                     297.85
1989                     319.01
1990                     272.26
1991                     282.11
1992                    264.69
1993                     283.16
1994                     555.20
1995                    495.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Agency)
CENADER    National Center for Cooperative Development (Centre National pour le
Developpement des Cooperatives)
CFAF          Franc of the Communaute Financiere Africaine
CFD           Caisse Francaise de Developpement
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FF            French Franc
FONADER    National Rural Development Bank (Fonds National de Developpement
Rural)
GIE            Economic Interest Group (Groupement d 'interet economique)
GtZ           Gesellschaft fur technische Zusanmmenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation
Agency)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IRA           Agronomic Research Institute (Institut de Recherche Agronomique)
MINAGRI        Ministry of Agriculture
ONCPB         National Produce Marketing Board (Office national de commercialisation
des produits de base)
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SODECAO    Cocoa Development Agency (Societe de Developpemnent du Cacao)
Vice President  -  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director  -  David Berk (Acting)
Technical Manager  -  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader  -  Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2912-CM)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...........................................                              i-iv
Part I:    Project Implementation Assessment
Background ..................................I
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives ...................................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................5
Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................7
Project Sustainability ...................................9
Bank Performance ....9..............................9
Borrower Performance ...................................11
Implementing Agency Performance ...................................11
Assessment of Outcome .................................. 12
Fu ture Operations ................................... 13
Key Lessons Learned ..................................                           13
Part II:    Statistical Annexes
Table I. Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3. Project Timetable .17
Table 4.   Estimated and Actual Annual and Cumulative Disbursements .17
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .19
Table 8. Project Cost .20
Table 9. Project Financing .21
Table 10. Compliance with Legal Covenants .22
Table I 1.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .28
Table 12. Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs .28
Table 13. Bank Resources -- Missions .29
Appendices:
Annex 1.  Social Impact of the Cocoa Rehabilitatioth Project ................................................. 30
Annex 2.  Summary of Govemment's Project Completion Report ............................................ 31
Maps:
IBRD No. 1 9725R - The SODECAO Region
IBRD No. 19726R - The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2912-CM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project, for which loan 2912-CM in the amount of US$103 million equivalent was approved on
February 23, 1988 and made effective on October 26, 1988. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (now the Caisse Francaise de
Developpement) in the amount of US$8 million equivalent and the German Government, in the
amount of US$3 million equivalent.
The loan agreement was substantially amended and resubmitted to the Board on March
4, 1991, at which time the amount of the loan was reduced to US$61.7 million. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1995, after a one year extension. The final disbursement took place on
August 9, 1995, at which time a balance of US$29.05 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Maurice Asseo, of the former Agriculture and Environment
Operations Division, Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department, revised by Dirk Nicolaas
Prevoo, Agricultural Cluster 3, and reviewed by Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Technical Manager,
Agricultural Cluster 2 and David Berk, Acting Director, Country Department 7.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in November 1995'. Several changes in task managers for the ICR, followed by
disruptions caused by the reorganization, led to delays in finalizing the ICR. It is based on
materials in the project file and the findings of the final mission. The borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by providing inputs into the mission's aide-memoire and by preparing
its own evaluation of the project's execution, which is summarized in Annex 2. The borrower
and the cofinanciers were asked to provide comments to the ICR but by the due date, only the
Borrower had provided (unofficial) comments. These comments have been reflected in the ICR
to the extent possible.
The mission consisted of Maurice Asseo, Senior Agricultural Economist, AF3AE, and Claudine
Voyadzis, Sociologist (Consultant).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2912-CM)
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.    Cameroon is the sixth ranking cocoa producer in the world. Its production has remained
stagnant since independence, varying between 100,000 and 120,000 tons per year. Even so,
cocoa has remained a major export revenue earner. Cocoa marketing was closely managed and
controlled by the Government prior to 1990, when trading was liberalized (prices were not
liberalized until 1995). The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project was preceded by the Cocoa Project
(Ln. 1039-CM), which was approved by the Board in 1974 and which had as its objective to
improve the livelihood of farmers by increasing cocoa production and to demonstrate that the
development and rehabilitation of the cocoa sector was possible by replicating the project or its
successful components. The Cocoa Project was to rehabilitate about 35,000 ha of cocoa
plantings, to plant up to 15,000 ha with high yielding hybrids, provide extension support,
training, cooperative development and adaptive research, and improve 950 km of rural roads.
The project was to be implemented by the newly established Cocoa Development Agency
(SODECAO, Societe de Developpement du Cacao), which was to be staffed and equipped under
the project. However, the project suffered from substantial organizational and institutional
weaknesses, and serious technical problems. These problems were compounded by erratic
Government policies with regard to cocoa pricing, farm inputs, and credit. The project failed to
achieve its objectives and the Economic Rate of Return at completion was negative.
Project Objectives
2.     The key objective of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project was to overcome the stagnation in
cocoa output and expand cocoa export earnings by helping modernize the cocoa industry.
Smallholder incomes and Government tax revenue were expected to improve as a result. The
project was to be implemented by SODECAO and was intended to: (i) improve the system of
producer incentives; (ii) increase SODECAO's efficiency and support its ongoing
program; (iii) reorganize the cocoa marketing system and the cocoa marketing
cooperatives; (iv) establish a private medium-size plantation program; and (v) strengthen
the Ministry of Agriculture's (MINAGRI's) capability to implement the cocoa strategy
incorporated into the project, and to monitor its execution. The economic justification of
the high project costs ($285.4 million, with a Bank Loan of $103 million) was based on a 60
percent increase in cocoa production in the project area through new plantings and yield
increases. It became apparent even before loan effectiveness that the Government would be
unable to provide the required counterpart funding and that the project was too ambitious given
the rapidly deteriorating macro-economic environment. The project was therefore reformulated
in 1990 and resubmitted to the Board in 1991. The project's objectives were revised and the
means to achieving them were modified; they were now to be achieved through a liberalization
of cocoa marketing and prices, the abolition of inefficient policies and public sector institutions,
the substitution of independent planter groups Groupement d'interet economique (GIE) in lieu of



- ii -
the government-controlled cooperatives, the gradual elimination of subsidies for cocoa inputs
and the gradual withdrawal of SODECAO, from the corresponding infrastructure construction
and input supply activities, along with the transfer of its production support responsibilities to
private sector agents, extension services to the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI) and feeder
road maintenance to the Ministry of Public Works (MTP). The reduction of SODECAO staff
from about 3,500 to some 600 was to be accompanied by the reinsertion of 1,000 of them,
mainly field agents, in agricultural production or support activities. The Agronomic Research
Institute (IRA) was to conduct various research projects.  Project costs were substantially
reduced to US$102.4 million and financing was to be provided by the Bank (US$61.7 million
versus US$103 million original), the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD - US$8.0
million, not an original project financier), the German Government (US$3.0 million,
unchanged), project beneficiaries (US$3.7 million versus US$28.8 million original) and the
Government (US$26.0 million versus US$150.6 original). The revised objectives were more
appropriate than the initial ones, considering the economic and political conditions prevailing in
Cameroon at that time, and they were in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.     The implementation of the project was marred by: (i) a much steeper than anticipated
decline in cocoa prices to a level where the project's economic viability was compromised; (ii) a
deteriorating macro-economic environment that made it impossible for the Government to
provide adequate counterpart funding; and (iii) poor project management. The overall project
outcome has to be rated unsatisfactory because of its inability to meet its development
objectives, despite its positive impact on sector policy. No ex-post evaluation was made of the
economic and financial rates of return because of insufficient data and also because it was not
clear from project files how these rates were calculated for the restructured project.
4.     The project resulted in no measurable increase of cocoa production or yields.
Productivity decreased in the project area due to lack of interest in the crop following sharp
drops in cocoa prices, increasing difficulties in obtaining inputs, lack of services, inadequate
feeder road construction and maintenance, and the growing age of cocoa trees and of the planters
themselves. The project was more successful on the policy aspects. Government's role in the
sub-sector was reduced, as marketing of cocoa was liberalized, subsidies were canceled and
SODECAO was no longer providing free services to planters, and the size of SODECAO was
drastically reduced. Some 1,000 GIEs were created and trained out of 1,500 planned, about 40
km of new feeder roads were built out of 275 km planned, and 1,1 13 km of existing roads were
upgraded under contract with the local population out of 1,380 km planned. Marketing activities
were taken over by private traders but inputs continued to be hard to come by, especially for the
poorer planters or those who had not joined a GIE. However, MINAGRI did not substitute its
staff to SODECAO's own in providing extension services until 1996 (with assistance from the
IBRD financed Agricultural Training and Extension Project, Ln. 3185-CM), and only some 429
km of new/upgraded feeder roads have been formally transferred to MTP for maintenance
purposes out of 1,375 km originally planned. Redeployment of 1,000 field staff of SODECAO
has not resulted in effective reinsertion in more than half of the cases, and, where it did, has had
little of the intended demonstration effect. Many of the staff reinserted have either sold the
inputs they were provided or are no longer operational because of their poor management of the
assets they were given. No research results are available. Actual project costs were US$74.0
million, with IBRD financing US$42.6 million; CFD US$6 million; the German Government
US$3 million; beneficiaries US$0.5 million; and the Government US$21.9 million.



- .11 -
5.     The only project results that are likely to be sustainable are those related to policy
reforms and the support to GIEs. Given the country's budgetary constraints, and the ongoing
policy dialogue with the Bank and IMF, it is unlikely that the Government will backtrack. The
few tangible investment results of the project are clearly unsustainable. Due to lack of funds, the
new and rehabilitated feeder roads are not likely to be maintained and the investments made in
research have not yielded any results.
Bank Performance
6.     The Bank's performance was marginally satisfactory at identification and preparation.
Bank performance at appraisal was unsatisfactory as there is no indication that the lessons of the
previous project, which had cost twice as much as expected for no measurable results, were
taken into consideration. The Bank may have been unduly influenced during preparation and
appraisal by the fact that Cameroon had been a good performer in the agricultural sector during
the 1970s and early 1980s. The US$285 million dollar project was initially over-designed and
ignored the drastic financial situation of the Cameroon government (expected to provide US$150
million equivalent of counterpart funds) and the lack of management capability of the
implementing agency by the time it was presented to the Board for approval. The necessity of
restructuring the project was formally declared at the signing ceremony of the Loan. By the time
it was restructured, the project had already spent US$40 million, including US$19 million of
Loan funds. Bank performance during restructuring was satisfactory and the resulting project
was in line with the Bank's strategy for the country. Despite two project-related suspensions,
Bank performance during supervision (after restructuring) did not adequately address the issues
related to poor SODECAO management and lack of progress in project implementation, and is
rated therefore as unsatisfactory. However, it is important to note that supervision efforts were
also constrained by two general country suspensions for payment of arrears enforced by the Bank
on Cameroon during this time. Bank staff displayed excessive optimism on the potential impact
of successive corrective measures, which repeatedly failed to improve project management and
paid little attention to the lack of development impact of the project. In 1993 and 1994, lengthy
discussions were held within the Bank to close the loan prematurely on the basis of the project's
poor performance, but no management action was taken until May 1995.
Borrower Performance
7.     Borrower performance was satisfactory at preparation but poor at implementation.
Despite the fact that the redesigned project had more realistic goals, it suffered from a lack of
counterpart funds, increasingly shoddy financial management, repeated disbursement
suspensions (two general and two project related), frequent and lengthy strikes at the Institute for
Agricultural Research, reticence of MTP in taking over responsibility for road maintenance,
blockages by personnel dismissed and claiming salary and compensation arrears, changes in
SODECAO management following financial irregularities, dismissal by the latest General
Director of SODECAO of properly selected staff and their replacement on the basis of
inappropriate criteria, difficulties created by government officials for traders attempting to enter
the input trade and harassment and later dismissal of the expatriate directors by the General
Manager of SODECAO. Over-invoicing - which went beyond the price hikes that could be
expected from suppliers worried about SODECAO's poor credit rating - and non-respect of
procurement procedures were generalized and led to the suspension and cancellation of the loan.
The project suffered from lingering interventionism in cocoa pricing and marketing by the
Government, which was not resolved until the complete liberalization of the sub-sector in 1995.



- lv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.     Assessment of Outcome. It is clear from the preceding paragraphs that the project's
overall rating is unsatisfactory. It has failed to meet its production development objectives,
because of a mix of exogenous (lower than expected cocoa prices and an overvalued exchange
rate) and endogenous (poor incentives, poor project management and delayed introduction of
extension services to farmers) factors. The project was more successful in introducing policy
improvements (liberalizing trading and reduction of Government influence in the sector) as a
result of conditionality set prior to the implementation of the restructured project.
10.    Future Operations. No plan was developed by the Borrower for the continued operation
of the project and the future of SODECAO is uncertain, at best.
11.    Key Lessons Learned. There are four main lessons to be learned from this project:
(a)    Project preparation should include an in-depth review of all aspects of the
project, including an assessment of the executing agency, political and other
vested interests, stakeholder commitments and the Borrower's and beneficiaries'
ability to pay. In the case of this project, only a limited review was done, which
did not identify the problems that surfaced during implementation.
(b)    Privatizing inputs supply will not generate a private sector response in the
absence of sufficient price incentives to use these inputs. In the case of this
project, there was very limited interest in the purchasing of inputs by farmers,
not only because access to credit was non-existent, but first and foremost
because it did not make economic sense given the relatively low benefits derived
from using fertilizers and pesticides and given the low prices that farmers
received for cocoa.
(c)    Progress in achieving the project's development objectives should be continually
reviewed and where it is clear that they are no longer achievable, alternatives
need to be considered (redesigning the project or closing it). In the case of this
project, insufficient attention was given to the alternative of closing the project,
2
when it had become apparent that the project was no longer viable (in 1993/94)
(d)    Macro-economic conditions, and more especially the value of the exchange rate,
are critical for the success of a number of agricultural operations, particularly
those dealing with exports.  The Bank proceeded with new  investment
operations in the CFAF zone countries, even though the issue of overvalued
exchange rates was not properly addressed. This greatly increased the risk of
failure of projects like this one oriented towards export promotion.
2
It should be noted here however that, during this period, the Bank rarely cancelled a loan before the
closing date without Government's agreement to the cancellation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2912-CM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    At the time of project preparation, in the early 1980s, Cameroon was the world's
sixth largest cocoa producing country, behind Cote d'Ivoire, Brazil, Malaysia, Ghana and
Nigeria. Its production, grown by some 300,000 small planters over a total area of some
400,000 hectares located mainly in the center-south and west of the country, had
remained stagnant since independence, varying between 100,000 and 120,000 tons per
year. Even so, cocoa had remained an important source of export earnings, third only
after coffee and petroleum. Since the independence of Cameroon in 1960, smallholder
export crops (mainly cocoa and coffee) had been closely managed and controlled by the
government, which determined farmgate prices, established schedules of fixed margins at
each level of marketing (baremes) and instituted the National Produce Marketing Board
(ONCPB; Office national de commercialisation des produits de base) as a marketing
intermediary and a government agent for the regulation and stabilization of prices.
2.    From  1986-1989, economic decline set in; the external terms of trade in
Cameroon fell by about 55 percent as the result of a sharp decline in export prices, the
inflation rate remained very high, and real per capita income levels dropped by almost 40
percent. The emergence of domestic arrears, the decline in foreign assets, and imprudent
lending practices, created a liquidity crisis in the banking system. This crisis was
responsible for wiping out the cocoa price stabilization fund, which had been invested in
a local bank and in several parastatals that became insolvent. The Structural Adjustment
Program carried out from 1989-93 liberalized agricultural prices and, to a lesser extent
trade and, in 1994, the CFAF was devalued. Initially, the farmn gate reference prices for
cocoa, coffee and cotton were increased, but in 1995, their prices were allowed to be
market determined. The Government also announced its intention to divest itself of
Public Enterprises involved in agricultural production.
3.    The Government's development policy throughout the seventies and eighties had
been to increase agricultural exports and rural incomes as a way to address declining oil
revenues. Revitalization of the cocoa sub-sector played an important role in this strategy.
This strategy was first supported by the Cocoa Project (Ln. 1039-CM), which was
implemented from 1975 through 1981. The objectives of this project were to improve the



- 2 -
livelihood of farmers in the project area by substantially increasing cocoa production and
to demonstrate that the development and rehabilitation of the cocoa sector was possible
by replicating the project or its successful components.  The first project was to
rehabilitate about 35,000 ha of cocoa plantings and to plant up to 15,000 ha with high
yielding hybrids. Extension support, training, cooperative development and adaptive
research were also included and 950 km of rural roads were to be improved. The project
was to be implemented by the newly established Cocoa Development Agency
(SODECAO, Soci&te de Developpement du Cacao), which was to be staffed and
equipped under the project. Physical developments were essentially achieved, but at
almost double the cost estimate and without achieving the target increase in cocoa yields
(50 kg/ha actual increase versus a target of 200 kg/ha). The project suffered from
substantial organizational and institutional weaknesses, and serious technical problems,
that had been understated at the design phase. Moreover, the project failed to reduce the
rural to urban migration of younger farmers, attracted by better paying jobs resulting from
the oil boom, and the technical messages were not properly adapted to the concerns of an
aging farm population. These problems were compounded by Government's decision to
make substantial changes in the second year of the project: (i) a doubling of the project
area, thereby straining the implementation capacity of SODECAO; (ii) free provision of
crop protection services; and (iii) imposition of cooperatives involving credit, and cocoa
collection and marketing arrangements, thereby undermining SODECAO's approach of
developing  pre-cooperative  farmer  groups  managed  by  farmers  themselves.
Improvement in producer incentives were resisted by Government, despite the fact that
cocoa world market prices reached a historic high during the period. SODECAO
received substantial support during the project, but did not begin to operate more
efficiently until well after the project3. One main lesson learned from the project was that
for the immediate future, smallholder cocoa development would need to be integrated as
a component in a rural development project given the existing production systems in the
cocoa growing areas.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project were to overcome the current
stagnation in cocoa output and expand cocoa export earnings by modernizing the cocoa
industry. Smallholder incomes and Government tax revenue were to improve as a logical
consequence. To achieve these objectives, the project was to: (i) improve the system of
producer incentives; (ii) increase SODECAO's efficiency and support its ongoing
program; (iii) reorganize the cocoa marketing system and marketing cooperatives;
(iv) establish a private medium-size plantation program; and (v) strengthen the Ministry
of Agriculture's (MINAGRI's) capability to implement the cocoa strategy incorporated
Performance Audit Report No. 5149: Cameroon - Cocoa Project, OED, June 18, 1984. There was
substantial disagreement on the performance of SODECAO in the Bank during preparation of the
follow-on project.
Performance Audit Report, paras. 22 and 36-37, and PCR, paras. 8.01-8.03.



- 3 -
into the project, and to monitor its execution. The economic rate of return (ERR) of
cocoa plantings was estimated at 18 percent.
5.    The Government had issued a statement of policy in support of the project prior to
Board presentation. By the time the project, with estimated total costs of US$285.4
million, and supported by a Bank Loan in the amount of US$103.0 million, was
submitted to the Board, on February 23, 1988, there were clear indications that the
Government would be unable to meet its share of the project costs as a result of a
deteriorating budget, following significant drops in oil revenue. A Bank mission fielded
shortly before Board presentation had concluded that it was doubtful that the project, as
originally conceived, would be able to proceed smoothly in view of the drastically
changed macro-economic environment (see also para. 16). In 1988, however, the depth
of the problems had not become apparent and it was thought that the extent to which the
project would need to be restructured would be limited to changing the financing plan in
order to bring it in line with the Government's reduced financial capacity. Cocoa price
projections were still relatively favorable and the overall project objectives were
considered to be valid. The project was therefore presented to the Board and approved as
it had been prepared. Shortly after Loan signing, the Bank informed the Borrower of its
intention to see the project restructured. To facilitate this process, the Bank declared the
loan effective, transforming for that purpose the only remaining condition of
effectiveness-the signing of a grant agreement with the German Government-into one
of disbursement against the cooperatives component.
6.    Agreement on a new design took three years to materialize. During this time
period, implementation progress was slow and limited to imports of chemical inputs, and
equipment and vehicles for SODECAO. Government was only able to come up with a
fraction of its agreed counterpart contribution; the drastic fall in oil revenue and the
unexpectedly steep decline in coffee and cocoa prices had severely impacted on its
5
revenues . It had also undermined the economic viability of the original project. The
redesigned project retained the original objectives, with the caveat that the impact on
cocoa production and rural incomes would be less than originally expected and that the
economic rate of return (ERR) would be II percent. The main difference between the
original and restructured project was a radically different approach. Increased emphasis
was now placed on improving the policy environment and reducing Government's role in
the sector.
7.    The project now aimed at a gradual abolition of inefficient policies (fixed margins
and input subsidies) and public sector institutions: SODECAO staff would be
immediately reduced from more than 3,500 to about 600 (selected through rigorous
testing), and then further reduced to less than 200 by the end of the project while input
procurement would be privatized; SODECAO would no longer directly implement free
The steep drop in cocoa prices was not forecast until after 1988. The October 1988 Bank forecasts of
cocoa prices showed that projections had remained basically unchanged from their 1986 levels.



- 4 -
insecticide treatments and its extension activities would be transferred to MINAGRI;
state-controlled cooperatives would be replaced by self-managed Economic Interest
Groups (GIE, Groupements d'interet economique), which, as bonafide clients for private
input merchants, were also viewed as a potential solution to remedy the lack of
agricultural credit; and, in the context of the structural adjustment process, the ONCPB
and the National Center for Cooperative Development (CENADEC - a beneficiary of the
original project) would be abolished. The poorly designed pilot medium-sized plantation
program, which had been added at the request of Government, but for which no proper
implementation arrangements had been identified, was dropped following the dissolution
of the National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER), and the support to the
monitoring and evaluation unit of MINAGRI was to be financed by the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID). Several other project activities were
substantially reduced in size.  These included support to the operating costs of
SODECAO (-78 percent), the feeder roads component (-84 percent), and support services
to farmers (-74 percent). Overall project costs were thus reduced by 64 percent to
US$102.4 million with Government counterpart funding reduced from US$150 million to
US$26 million, cofinanciers' funding remained the same, and US$41.3 million was
canceled from the loan (40 percent). Disbursement percentages were increased to
compensate for Government's reduced financial capacity. Technical assistance to project
management would be financed through the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE, now Caisse Francaise de Developpement; CFD) and the German Government
would continue to support the development of farmers groups through the Gesellschaft
fiir technische Zusammenarbeit (GtZ). The Board approved the restructured loan on
March 4, 1991.
8.    The redesigned project had five components:  (i) Agriculture Operations,
supporting the importation and distribution of chemical inputs; (ii) Support Services,
supporting the development of 1,500 farmer groups; (iii) Research, supporting research
on cocoa, coffee, foodcrops and fruit trees; (iv) Feeder Roads, supporting the
maintenance of 1,400 km of existing roads and the construction of 300 km of new roads;
and (v) Creation of productive Employment, supporting the reinsertion of 1,000
SODECAO field workers who were to be laid off following the transfer of field activities
from SODECAO to MINAGRI.
9     The redesigned project was based on an agriculture sector analysis ("An
Agricultural Growth and Rural Environment Strategy for the Coastal and Central African
Francophone Countries", World Bank Report No. 9592-AFR), which had as one of its
conclusions that Cameroon's agriculture sector could bounce back if adjustment of
macro-economic policy was introduced. The view during project redesign was that the
cocoa sector could recover if the project was fundamentally redesigned to reduce
Government and parastatal interference in the sector. The redesigned project's goal to
support the reform of the cocoa sector by liberalizing marketing, significantly downsizing
SODECAO, and turning most services over to private traders, farmers groups and private
enterprises, was in line with this strategy. Moreover, Cameroon had agreed to a structural
adjustment program, which the redesigned project complemented.



10.  It is not clear on what basis the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated
for the restructured project. Given the investments made to 1991, the drastically changed
prospects for cocoa prices, the unfavorable domestic resource cost calculations available
in file and the unavailability of adequate technical packages for cocoa, it seems that the
assumptions used for the economic analysis of the restructured project may have been too
optimistic.
Achievement of Project Objectives
11.   The project failed to achieve its objective of modernizing the cocoa industry and
raising farmers' productivity in cocoa production. Productivity is reported to have
decreased in the project area due to lack of interest in the crop following sharp price
drops, increasing difficulties in obtaining inputs, lack of support services, inadequate
feeder road construction and maintenance, and the growing age of cocoa trees and of the
planters themselves.   The aforementioned was primarily the result of delayed
implementation of the structural adjustment program and the reluctance of the CFAF
group of countries to devalue their currency thus maintaining an overvalued exchange
rate for too long. This had a negative impact on domestic cocoa prices due to the
deteriorating export prices. The project was more successful on the policy aspects, as
subsidies were canceled, trade was liberalized and SODECAO was no longer providing
free services to planters.
12.   Agriculture Operations. The combination of low international cocoa prices and
overvalued exchange rate, combined with even lower prices paid to farmers, the
increasing need to rely on private providers of inputs at full cost, the further increase of
this cost following the devaluation in 1994, the absence of agricultural credit to remedy
the chronic shortage of funds of planters and the reluctance of traders to provide inputs on
credit if they had no guarantee of recovery at the time of (liberalized) marketing, explain
the recent sharp decrease in use of inputs. Moreover, private traders were slow to step in
because SODECAO continued to sell inputs, supported under the loan. The proceeds of
these sales were to cover its operating costs. A rapid field survey (summarized in Annex
1) was carried out as part of the ICR mission and its results show that the poorest
planters, who did not organize themselves into GIEs, who did not enjoy political support
or who were located far from well-maintained feeder roads, were the ones whose cocoa
production suffered most.6
13.   Support Services. Some 1,000 GIEs, have been created and trained, out of an
expected 1,500. These groups have been most successful where dynamic middle-size
planters took the lead. MINAGRI did not substitute its own extension staff for dismissed
SODECAO field personnel until 1996. Almost 15,000 ha of new planting and
6  The survey itself, having been hampered from accessing enclave areas, was unable to assess the full
impact of the lack of roads on the poorest populations.



- 6 -
rehabilitation was completed under the project, out of a revised objective of 18,000 ha
(72,000 ha original). Most of these plantings were completed before the project's
restructuring. The premium for new plantings until 1991 was never distributed, and
planters often were not aware of their entitlement to it. The hybrid varieties introduced
under the project have proven susceptible to Black Pod, at a time when fungicides were
difficult to obtain. Overall, there has been a slight decrease in cocoa yields, which
already started from a very low level, varying between 150 kg and 250 kg/ha in most
areas, but at places as low as 65 to 75 kg/ha.7 Producer prices decreased until the 1994
devaluation of the CFAF. The prices paid during the 1993/1994 campaign did not fully
reflect the changes in the exchange rate because the campaign was already in full swing at
the time of devaluation. Production has increased following loan closing, primarily
because of slightly higher world market prices, the effect of the devaluation and the full
liberalization of the sector in 1995, which resulted in a considerable increase in farm
prices.
14.   Research. No research results are available. After three years of inaction due to a
general strike, IRA had spent US$1.6 million of loan funds on materials and equipment,
but no research activities were undertaken, and in view of the death of one of the two
researchers assigned to assisting the project and the departure of the other, none are
expected.
15.   Feeder Roads. About 40 km of new feeder roads have been built out of a total of
275 km planned under the restructured project (1,350 km original) and 1,1 13 km of
existing roads were rehabilitated under contract with the local population, out of a
planned total of 1,380 km under the restructured project. The transfer to the Ministry of
Public Works (MTP) of the maintenance of roads with high economic justification has
materialized only for some 429 km of newly built/rehabilitated roads, out of 1,375 km of
roads planned to be transferred as part of the restructured project. Information on the
maintenance of the other feeder roads is not available.
16.   Creation of Productive Employment. The reinsertion program failed to reach its
objectives. According to the findings of the light survey conducted with ex-SODECAO
field agents, only two-thirds of the reinsertion program had been carried out. The
program was interrupted before the agents were fully installed. Redeployment of the
1,000 field staff of SODECAO has not resulted in effective reinsertion in more than half
of the cases, and, where it did, has produced little of the intended demonstration effect.
Many of the reinserted agents are operating at about 20 percent of their expected level of
activity, due to a lack of working capital, lack of market outlets in small livestock
production (favored by half of the agents, the other half having opted for banana or
vegetable production, or rural crafts8) and the low management capacity of these agents.
7   Due to the old age of the trees and of the planters, inadequate technology and varieties, and poor
services, especially to (the relatively few) women planters.
8   Reinserted personnel were not supposed to be assisted for non-agricultural activities.



- 7 -
The small sample surveyed showed that 20 percent of the agents benefiting from the
program were not field agents as required by the project. Many of the agents who have
benefited from the program have sold the equipment they were provided, often before
ever using it, and moved into different occupations. All complain of a loss in income
level, which is in part explained by the relatively high salaries they were paid by
SODECAO, and all have had difficulties in adapting to their new environment, which
they attribute to a lack of health and education services in the areas where they decided to
settle (usually their villages of origin), lack of land, and an unfriendly reception by the
local population. More generally, the survey has shown poor management of the
program, delays in funding, misappropriation of funds, over-invoicing of equipment and
insufficient follow-up of the agents.
17.   No ex-post economic evaluation of the project has been carried out because there
is insufficient data to make an assessment and it is unclear how the ERR for the
restructured project was calculated.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
Not Subject to Government Control
18.   World cocoa prices declined much more steeply after Board presentation than had
been anticipated. The forecast and actual cocoa prices for the period 1986-1995 are
shown in the chart below.  The much steeper than originally anticipated decline
compromised the economic and financial viability of the project.
Projected and Actual Cocoa Prices
(in current US$ per kilo)
2.5
2.0
.5. [-_                                              8 Ojctio
-X-88 projections
1.0                       .                        actual
0.5 .
0.0
1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
Subject to Government Control
19.   Farmgate prices dropped in line with world market prices. Prior to the price
liberalization in 1995, farmers received on average less than 50 percent of the world
market price.  Increasing this share was one of the actions envisaged under the



- 8 -
restructured project, but due to Government's unwillingness to give up part of a source of
tax revenue at a time of dwindling resources, no changes were made. The effect of the
CFAF devaluation in 1994 also took some time before it was translated into higher
farmgate prices because part of that year's harvest had already been sold at the pre-
devaluation price and Government imposed a 15 percent export tax. It was not until the
following year that farmgate prices, expressed in CFAF, began to fully reflect the effects
of the devaluation. The result of the low farrngate prices in an era of declining world
market prices was that interest in producing cocoa decreased and farmers became more
interested in foodcrops production.
20.   The macro-economic environment deteriorated significantly during project
implementation (Para. 2) which eventually led to two generalized disbursement
suspensions, due to Cameroon falling into arrears with the Bank.
Subject to Implementing Agency Control
21.   Implementation suffered from the beginning from poor project management.
SODECAO had become an effective organization prior to project start-up, but this was
mostly the result of the expatriate management team. These managers, however, did not
train local staff prior to their departure in the mid-1980s. With the departure of the
expatriate management team, the quality of management of SODECAO deteriorated.
During project implementation this became increasingly apparent. Financial management
was particularly poor. Project accounts were not properly kept and project funds were
used outside of their official purpose. The CFD funded technical assistant brought this to
the attention of the cofinanciers of the project. Audits of project accounts were late, at
times a year past their due date, and several problems were identified. At times, auditors
were unable to verify all information. Bank and government procurement procedures
were repeatedly violated. Asset and stocks management was non-existent, which resulted
in unaccounted sales of SODECAO vehicles and agricultural inputs. Both CFD and the
Bank temporarily suspended disbursements of their loans in 1993. Following further
observation of gross financial mismanagement, the Bank insisted on a change of the
general manager in 1994. The disbursement suspension was lifted in early 1994 after the
change.
22.   Poor project management was epitomized by the Bank's decision to reject the last
150 requests for disbursement, presented after closure of the project, for improper
procurement procedures, blatant over-pricing or acquisition of goods unrelated to project
activities. Despite many violations of the Loan Agreement (see also Table 9, Part II), the
Bank did not definitively suspend disbursements for the project until 1995.
23.   IRA's operations were several times interrupted due to lengthy strikes of its
personnel in protest over salary cuts and non-payments of salaries.  Disbursement
conditions for the activities to be funded under the project were only met after long
delays. Moreover, lack of counterpart funds made it impossible for IRA to execute the
agreed upon activities for the project. It was for these reasons that several staff in the



-9-
Bank queried whether the research component should be maintained. However, no action
to cancel this component was taken.
24.   MTP was reticent to take over the maintenance of roads constructed or
rehabilitated under the project, because of lack of funds to maintain them.  Their
insistence on excessively expensive standards of construction resulted in the transfer of
only 429 km of roads out of a potential of 1,700 km to MTP by the end of the project.
25.   The restructuring of SODECAO was severely impeded by blockages from
personnel dismissed earlier, who were claiming their salary arrears and compensation,
and who repeatedly occupied SODECAO headquarters. SODECAO was unable to pay
these arrears and compensation. It remained heavily indebted because of inadequate
Government contributions to its operating budget. Moreover, the last Director General of
SODECAO dismissed properly selected staff and replaced these staff on the basis of
poorly defined criteria. This resulted in low staff morale and difficult work conditions.
26.   CFD, which was funding technical assistance to SODECAO, was having second
thoughts about the efficacy of SODECAO and ended up withdrawing its support to the
project in 1993. The Bank took over financing the technical assistance originally funded
by CFD. While many in the Bank were also in favor of early cancellation of the project,
project activities dragged on through prolonged and repeated negotiations with the
Government on measures to strengthen project implementation until disbursements were
finally suspended in May 1995.
Project Sustainability
27.   The only project results that are likely to be sustainable are those related to policy
reforms, particularly after the sector was fully liberalized in 1995 and the role of the
Government reduced to quality oversight. Given the country's budgetary constraints and
the ongoing policy dialogue with the Bank and IMF, it is unlikely that the Government
will backtrack.  The few tangible investment results of the project are clearly
unsustainable. Due to lack of funds, the new and rehabilitated feeder roads are likely not
to be maintained. The investments made in research have not yielded any results. The
only exception may be the 1,000 GIEs that were created.  The IBRD financed
Agricultural Training and Extension Project (Ln. 3185-CM), included the former project
area into its program in 1996 and is using these GIEs for extension purposes.
Bank Performance
28.  Identification. Bank performance during project identification was satisfactory.
Even though the proposed project was not innovative by any standard, it was in line with
Government's and Bank's development strategy at the time. It correctly incorporated
some of the lessons learned from the predecessor project, amongst these the need to
support foodcrops production, as there was substitution between foodcrops, the surplus of



- 10-
which could be marketed in Yaounde, and cocoa production, depending on expected
market prices.
29.   Preparation.  Bank performance during project preparation was marginally
satisfactory.  During the early design stages, there was a strong desire to include
Government in the project preparation process. Progress in project preparation was slow,
however, because of limited capacity in the Government. However, the staff responsible
for the project at the Bank felt that this was worth the extra time. In 1985, there was a
change in staff responsible for project preparation. The project was redesigned and
because of the perceived low capacity of Government to assist in the design of the
project, it was decided to rely more on consultants.  However, a close working
relationship with Government was maintained in all aspects of project preparation. A
number of design issues, including capacity of SODECAO and commitment of different
stakeholders, were however not properly assessed.
30.   Appraisal and post-appraisal.  Bank performance during appraisal and post-
appraisal was mixed and on the whole unsatisfactory. During project appraisal and post-
appraisal, several issues were not appropriately reviewed:  (i) the suitability of
SODECAO to be the main implementing agency for the project in terms of its efficiency
and management capabilities (although there were long discussions on this issue in the
Bank); (ii) the ability of Government to provide the very large counterpart funds required
for the project in a timely manner (US$150.6 million); this was considered a project risk,
but its impact was not sufficiently analyzed; (iii) the project did not adequately address
how to improve foodcrops production (the Staff Appraisal Report barely discusses
foodcrops production); and (iv) the commitment of all stakeholders (not only MINAGRI,
farmers and SODECAO, but also that of politicians and civil servants with vested
interests in cocoa trading) was not properly assessed.
31.   Project Restructuring. Bank performance during restructuring was satisfactory.
The restructured project was consistent with Bank strategy at the time for Cameroon and
was to provide important support to the country's adjustment program. It addressed
several key policy constraints in the sector with the drastic reduction of Government's
role and liberalization of cocoa marketing.
32.   Supervision. During supervision, Bank staff did not adequately address the issues
related to poor SODECAO management and lack of progress in project implementation
and should therefore be rated unsatisfactory.  The Bank many times threatened a
suspension of disbursements, but postponed action, even though progress towards
resolving the problems was limited.  The Bank and CFD temporarily suspended
disbursements in 1993, following observations of gross mismanagement of project funds.
However, disbursements resumed in early 1994 and the Bank granted an extension of the
loan's closing date of one year. This extension was an error on the part of the Bank as it
had become apparent in 1994, that the project was having no discernible impact on cocoa,
coffee or foodcrops production, and that project managemenit was not improving.
Supervision missions after the project's restructuring was completed were too infrequent



- 11 -
and lacked an appropriate skills mix considering the problems that the project faced (too
frequently they only included a treecrops specialist and only infrequently a financial
analyst). However, it is important to note that supervision efforts were constrained by two
general country suspensions enforced by the Bank on Cameroon during this time. On May 11,
1995, the Bank formally informed the Government that no further disbursements under
the Loan would be honored until SODECAO provided the Bank with overdue audits.
The reasons put forward were deteriorating project management, non-respect of
procurement, accounting and audit procedures, lack of project goods inventories and
over-invoicing for goods purchased. The Minister of Agriculture informed the Bank that
five State inspectors had been named to look into these matters. However, the loan was
closed on June 30, 1995 and the report of the inspectors and the audit reports were never
submitted to the Bank, despite repeated follow-up by Bank staff.
Borrower Performance
33.   Preparation.  Government's contribution to project preparation was limited
because of lack of skilled staff. It is not clear why Government agreed to the project's
financing plan, which required a very large counterpart contribution at a time of
dwindling Government revenue.
34.  Implementation. Government's performance during project implementation was
unsatisfactory. The restructured project suffered from lack of counterpart funds and
Government showed reluctance to intervene in the management of SODECAO, even after
it had become clear that project funds could not be accounted for and both Bank and
Government procurement procedures had been violated. MINAGRI was also extremely
tardy in substituting its own extension service for that of SODECAO, after the project
was restructured. Government was furthermore slow in accepting responsibility for
maintenance of newly constructed or rehabilitated roads. The project suffered from
lingering interventionism in cocoa pricing and marketing by the Cameroon authorities,
which was not fully resolved until the complete liberalization of the sub-sector in 1995.
Implementing Agency Performance
35.   SODECAO's management of the project was highly unsatisfactory.  The
restructured project suffered from increasingly shoddy financial management, leading to
two disbursement suspensions, blockages by dismissed SODECAO personnel claiming
salary and compensation arrears, changes in SODECAO management following financial
irregularities, dismissal by the latest General Director of SODECAO of properly selected
staff and their replacement on the basis of inappropriate criteria, and harassment and later
dismissal of the expatriate directors by the General Manager of SODECAO. Over-
invoicing - which went far beyond the price hikes that could be expected from suppliers
worried about SODECAO's poor credit rating - and non-respect of procurement
procedures were generalized and led to the suspension and cancellation of the project.



-12-
Assessment of Outcome
36.   It is clear that the project's overall rating is unsatisfactory. It has failed to meet its
production development objectives, because of a mix of exogenous (lower than expected
cocoa prices and an overvalued exchange rate) and endogenous (poor incentives, poor
project management and delayed introduction of extension services to farmers) factors.
The project was more successful in introducing policy improvements (liberalizing trading
and reduction of Government influence in the sector) as a result of conditionality set prior
to the implementation of the restructured project.
Future Operations
37.   No plan was developed by the Borrower for the project's future operation of the
project and the future of SODECAO is uncertain, at best.
Key Lessons Learned.
38.   There are four main lessons to be learned from this project:
(i)    Project preparation needs to include an in-depth review of all aspects of
the project, including an assessment of the executing agency, stakeholder
commitments, political and other vested interests, and the Borrower's and
beneficiaries' ability to pay. At the time this project was prepared, only
limited reviews were normally done. The problems that surfaced during
project implementation were thus not identified.
(ii)   Privatizing inputs supply will not generate a private sector response in the
absence of sufficient price incentives to use these inputs. In the case of
this project, there was very limited interest in the purchasing of inputs by
farmers, not only because access to credit was non-existent, but first and
foremost because it did not make economic sense given the relatively low
returns from using fertilizers and pesticides because of the low prices that
farmers received for cocoa.
(iii)   Progress in achieving the project's development objectives should be
continuously reviewed and where it is clear that they are no longer
achievable, alternatives need to be considered (re-designing the project or
closing it). In the case of this project, insufficient attention was given to
the alternative of closing the project, when it had become apparent that the
project was no longer viable (1 993/94).9
9   It should be noted here however that, during this period, the Bank rarely cancelled a loan before the
closing date without Government's agreement to the cancellation.



- 13 -
(iv)   Macro-economic conditions, and more especially the value of the
exchange rate, are critical for the success of a number of agricultural
operations, particularly those dealing with exports. The Bank proceeded
with new investment operations in the CFAF zone countries, even though
the issue of overvalued exchange rates was not properly addressed. This
greatly increased the risk of failure of projects like this one oriented
towards export promotion.



- 14-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Objectives
Objectives        Substantial   [     Partial     |   Negligible    [ Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                   X
Sector Policies                             X
Financial                                                     X
Objectives
Institutional                                                 X
Development                                                                               l
Physical                                                      X
Objectives                                                                                l
Poverty                                                       X
Reduction
Gender Issues                                                                    X
Other Social                                                                     X
Objectives
Environmental                                                                    X
Objectives
Public Sector                                                 X
Management
Private Sector                                                X
Development                                                                               l
Other (specify)
B.    Project Sustainability
Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
Project Sustainability                                 X



- 15 -
C.     Bank Performance
Performance T    Highly           Satisfactory  1   Deficient
Satisfactory  [
Identification                          X
Preparation                             X
Assistance
Appraisal                                                X
Restructuring                           X
Supervision                                              X
D.    Borrower Performance
Performance j    Highly        | Satisfactory|   Deficient
Satisfactor
Preparation                             X
Implementatio                                            X
n
Covenant                                                 X
Compliance
Operation (if                                            X
applicable)
E.    Assessment of Outcome
Performance         Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory
x



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title       Amount   | Purpose                          1 Year of  Status
II                               JApproval |
Agricultural Extension  US$ 21.0   Increasing agricultural production    1990    Complete
and Training Project (Ln.            and income by improving the                 d
3185-CM)                            testing and dissemination process
of new agricultural technologies in
a cost effective manner.
Livestock Sector        US$34.6    Improving quality of livestock        1989    Closed,
Development Project (Ln.             service and strengthening of                December
3014-CM)                             producers organizations.                    31, 1996
Agricultural Research   US$17.8    Increase productivity and incomes     1986    Closed,
Project (Ln. 2766-CM)                of small-scale agricultural                 June 30,
producers through improved                  1993
technology creation.
FSAR II (Ln.2564-CM)    US$25.5    Implementation of small high          1985    Closed,
priority sub-projects e.g. Wells,           December
bottom- land devt., and access road.        31, 1993
Third HEVECAM           US$8.3       Complete investments in             1985    Closed,
Rubber Project (Ln.                  agricultural operations and                 June 30,
2485-CM)                             infrastructure, start up of                 1991
commercial production and
development of village plantations.
Second Western Province  US$21.5    Increase food crop production;       1984    Closed,
Development Project (Ln.             quality improvement and marketing           December
2406-CM)                             of coffee, strengthening of                 31, 1992
cooperatives and further integration
of project services in provincial
operations.
Oil Palm/Rubber         US$50.8    Consolidation of investments made     1982    Closed,
Consolidation Project               in the palm and rubber sub-sectors.          June 30,
(Ln. 2160-CM)                        Strengthening of parastatals active          1988
in rubber and oil palm.



- 17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned                   [Date Actual
Identification                                                  1982
Preparation                                                     1983-1985
Appraisal                                                      March 1986
Negotiations                                                    April 27, 1987
Board Approval                                                 February 23, 1988
Credit Signature                                               April 21, 1988
Credit Effectiveness            July 19, 1988                  October 26, 1988
Midterm Review                                                  1989-1991 '
Credit Closing                                                 December 31, 1995
Table 4: Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
(in US$'000)
IDAI
Fiscal
Year        1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995       1996
Appraisal   6,200     23,300   48,400    71,100    88,600   98,900    103,000
Estimates
Revised     18,800   32,000   47,300   59,300   62,600
Estimates
II 
Actual      12,648    18,895   21,878   28,233    39,026   40,875   42,646         42,646
Actual as      67        59       46        48        62        65         65        65
% of
revised
estimate
JO  Project was restructured during this period. No mid-term review took place.
Revised as in Technical Note, attached to the Restructuring Documents and dated November 1990. It
is not clear on what basis the disbursements were estimated, since they bear no resemblance to actual
disbursements up to November 1990 and the expected closing date of December 31, 1994.



- 18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation          Estimated          Estimated          Actual
Indicators in SAR           original           revised
COCOA
New planting (extension)     45,000 ha         )                  )
Planting Rehabilitation      35,000 ha         ) 18,000 ha        ) 14,858 ha
Field Upkeep                 17,000 ha         )                  )
Demonstration plots           none                 390 ha             274 ha
New Private plantations       4,000 ha           canceled             none
Yields
South                340 kg/ha          340 kg/ha          )<200 kg/ha
Center               480 kg/ha          480 kg/ha          ) 260 kg/ha
ROADS
New roads                     1,350 km            275 km               40 km
Rehabilitation               12,000 km                            )
Resurfacing                   1,500 km         ) 1,380 km         ) 1,113 km
Manual maintenance           15,000 km         )                  )
OTHERS
Reduction of subsidy on           50%                100%               100%
fungicides
Reduction of subsidy on           none               100%               100%
pesticides
Support to Cooperatives                        Liquidation of     Liquidated
through CENADEC                                CENADEC
Replanting incentive through   CFA 200,000/ha    canceled         FONADER
FONADER                                                           liquidated
Adaptive Research on cocoa    Sodecao/IRA      maintained         no results
and coffee
Training of extension agents                   Training of 1,500    1,000 farmers
farmers groups     groups trained



- 19-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
| Key Operating Indicators in    Estimated          Revised             Actual
SAR 7
No indicators were established
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined          Status           Impact of Study
at appraisal
Organization and     Not defined in Staff    Completed            None
Management of        Appraisal Report, but
SODECAO              in Loan Agreement
ONCPB Marketing    Improve export         Dropped since ONCPB    N.A.
Study                marketing of cocoa   was dissolved and
marketing liberalized



- 20 -
Table 8: Project Cost
Category                 Appraisal Estimates           Revised Estimates             Actual Expenditure
(US$ million)                (US$million)                   (US$ million
Local     Foreign  [ Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Local       Foreign      Total
currency   exchange          currency  currency           currency   exchange
SODECAO
Management/Adm.       13.5        2.8       16.3     6.1       4.5      10.6     5.0        2.9        7.9
Field Rehabilitation.  3.5        1.3       4.8       -         -        -       2.0        0.5        2.5
Field Extension       41.6        11.4     53.0       -         -        -       5.6         1.2       6.8
Training               2.6        3.3       5.9      8.0       2.8      10.8     4.8         1.1       5.9
Crop Protection       22.6        45.7     68.3    11.9       30.0     41.9      4.7        23.8       28.5
Adaptive Research      3.6        0.9       4.5       -         -        -       0.6         -         0.6
Rural infrastructure  29.3        19.1     48.4      5.6       6.3      11.9     4.8        6.5        11.3
Monitoring/Eval.       1.9        0.2       2.1       -         -        -        1.2                  1.2
Staff Redeployment      -          -         -       2.8       3.0      5.8      3.2        0.3        3.5
Sub-total          118.6       84.7     203.3    34.4      46.6     81.0
Cooperative            3.4        4.8       8.2       -         -        -        -          -          -
(CENADEC)
MINAGRI                0.4        0.7       1.1
Private Plantations   12.5        4.4       16.9      -         -        -        -          -
IRA Adaptive            -          -         -       0.8       0.4      1.2      0.3         1.3       1.6
research
MINAGRI                 -          -         -
Extension               -          -         -       8.0       1.4      9.4      3.4        0.8        4.2
Studies                 -          -         -        -        0.4      0.4
Base cost             134.9       94.6     229.5    43.2      48.8     92.0      35.6       38.4       74.0
Contingencies         44.2        11.7      55.9     5.5       4.9      10.4
Total Cost            179.1      106.3    285.4    48.7       53.7    102.4    35.6         38.4       74.0



- 21 -
Table 9: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate           Revised Estimates       Actual Financing
Source          (US$ million)                (US $ million)          (US$ million)
Local    Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign   Total
Currency  Exchang         Curre   Currency          Currency  Exchange
e             ncy                    I
IDA         0.0      103.0   103.0  14.5    47.2    61.7    10.7          31.9     42.6
CFD         0.0       0.0      0.0    4.0      4.0     8.0      2.5       3.5      6.0
GtZ         0.0       3.0     3.0    0.5      2.5      3.0                3.0      3.0
Government    150.3      0.3    150.6  26.0       0.0     26.0    21.9       0.0      21.9
Beneficiaries    28.8    0.0    28.8   3.7        0.0      3.7      0.5       0.0      0.5
Total      179.1      106.3   285.4  48.7    53.7    102.4    35.6        38.4     74.0



Table 10: Compliance with Legal Covenants
Agreement    Clause    Covenant   Present    Original    Revised                   Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type       Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Loan           3.01 (a)                 NC                               The borrower declares its commitmentto the    MINAGRI did not carry
objectives of the project as set forth in Schedule 2    out its agreed activities
to the LA and to this end: (i) shall carry out part B
of the project through MINAGRI; and part C of the
project through IRA.
Loan           3.01 (b)      5          NC                               The Borrower shall cause SODECAO to perform
in accordance with the provisions in the Project
Agreement and shall take or cause to be taken all
action necessary or appropriate to enable
SODECAO to perform such obligations.
3.02 (b)      4          NC                               Borrower shall deposit into SODECAO project   Counterpart contribution   t
account, before the end of each quarter of its fiscal   was grossly insufficient
year, the Borrower's contribution
3.02 (c)      4          NC                               The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
ensure that the aggregate amount in the SODECAO
project account shall not be less than 1.98 billion
CFAF at the end of each quarter
3.03 (a)      5          NC                               Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurementof goods, works and consultants'
services financed by the Loan shall follow Bank
procurement procedures
3.03 (b)      5           C                               SODECAO shall be (i) responsible for the
procurementof all crop protection chemicals for its
annual programs; and (ii) SODECAO shall
supervise and coordinate the use of pesticides and
fungicides in accordance with Bank guidelines



Agreement    Clause    Covenant   Present | Original           Revised                Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type       Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
3.05        10           C                                The Borrower shall furnish sufficientplanting
materials from its seed farms to SODECAO
3.06         9          CD                                Borrower shall not later than March 31 of each
year furnish to the Bank for its approval, the
proposed work programs and budgets for the
following year
3.07        10          NC        June 30,                Borrower shall extend the planting bonus of CFAF
1988                  200,000 to all farmers planting or replanting cocoa
trees over an area of one hectare or more, no later
than June 30, 1988
3.08         5           C                                Borrower shall: (a)Complete SODECAO
management study no later than September 1988;
(b) provide the Bank with a copy for review and
comments; and (c) pTomptly take all measures                             w
agreed upon with the Bank
4.01 (a)       I         NC                                 Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the project
4.01 (b)       I        CD, NC                              Borrower shall have accounts and records audited
(i)                  for 1995                            at the end of each fiscal year by independent
auditors
4.01 (b)      1, 9     CD, NC                               Borrowershall furnish Bank no laterthan 6 months
(ii)                 for 1994                             after the end of the fiscal year with a certified copy
and 1995                            of the audit report
4.01 (b)      1, 9       NC                                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank information
(iii)                                                     concerningthese records and accounts as well as
the audit thereof, as the Bank may reasonably
request



Agreement    Clause    Covenant   Present    Original             Revised                Description of Covenant                     Comments
Type        Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date         date
4.01 (c)      1,9         NC                                  Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
(i)                                                         reflecting SOE expenditures
4.01 (c)      1, 9      Unknown                               Borrowershall retain until at least one year after
(ii)                                                        last withdrawal all records evidencing these
expenditures
4.01 (c)      1, 9        NC                                  Borrower shall enable the Bank's representativesto
(iii)                                                       examine such records
4.01 (c)       1        CD, NC                                Borrower shall ensure that such records are audited
(iv)                  for 1994                              and that the audit report contains a separate opinion
and 1995                              on these expenditures
5.01         5          N.A.       March 31,                 Borrower shall: (a) cause ONCPB to carry out a  Conditiondropped
1989                   study on cocoa marketing no later than March 31,   following dissolution of
1989; (b) furnish a copy of this study to the Bank  ONCPB
for comments; and (c) promptly carry out the
agreed recommendations
7.01 (e)      10                                              The GtZ grant agreement has been duly signed and   Changed from condition of
conditions precedentto initial disbursements,   effectivenessto condition
except for effectivenesshave been fulfilled     of disbursementagainst
cooperatives component
Project         3.01 (b)       5            C                                  SODECAO shall at all times employ a general
director, a financial and administrativedirector, an
agricultural production director, a feeder roads
directorand a workshop manager, all with
appropriate qualifications and experience and in
accordance with an organ igram satisfactoryto the
Bank
4.01 (a)       I          NC                                  Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect its operations and financial
condition



Agreement    Clause    Covenant   Present    Original          Revised                Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type       Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
4.01 (b)       I        CD, NC                              SODECAO shall have its records, accounts and
(i)                  for 1994                            financial statements audited at the end of each
and 1995                            fiscal year by independent auditors
4.01 (b)     1,9        CD, NC                              SODECAO shall furnish Bank no later than 6
(ii)                 for 1994                             months after the end of the fiscal year with a
and 1995                            certified copy of the audit report and its financial
statements
4.01 (b)      1, 9     CD, NC                               SODECAO shall furnish to the Bank information
(iii)                for 1994                             concerning these records, accounts and financial
and 1995                            statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank
may reasonably request
4.02 (b)      3          NC                                 Open and maintain a separate account in a      Not all funds were
commercial bank in which proceeds from sales of   deposited into account
equipment, materials, inputs and other goods
financed under the project shall be deposited
4.02 (c)      9          NC                                 Until the completion of the project, prepare and
forward to the Bank, at least on a six-month basis,
statements of proceeds deposited and of the
proposed use of said proceeds
4.02 (d)      3           NC                                Use said proceeds only for such purposes and in
such manner as shall have been approved by the
Borrower after consultation with the Bank
Schedule,      5          CP                                 Amended to read: Feeder roads to be constructed    Not for all roads
para 2                                                     under the project shall be selected by an ad hoc
commission consisting of representativesof the
Borrower's ministries responsible for transport and
public works, agriculture and planning, and of
SODECAO. Said feeder roads shall only include
those that can be incorporated in the national
classified road network, following construction
and./or maintenance



Agreement    Clause    Covenant   Present    Original    Revised                   Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type       Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Schedule,      2       Unknown                             Food crop planting material shall be sold byl
para 3                                                    SODECAO to farmers at full cost
Schedule,      9          CD                               SODECA shall not later than March 31 of each
para 4                                                    year furnish to the Bank for its approval, proposed
annual work programs and budgets relating thereto
Schedule,      5                                           Amended to read:
para 5                 (a) C                              (a) the number of SODECAO staff shall be in the
aggregate of 600 for FY90/9 1; 600 for FY91 /92;
400 for FY92/92; and 200 for FY93/94
(b) higher level extension agents of MINAGRI
(b) NC                             shall be made available to SODECAO to carry out
extension services. Extension work shall be
organized, coordinated and supervised by
SODECAO and SODECAO shall gradually
transfer these responsibilitiesto MINAGRI;
(c) Subsidies for fungicide and anti-mirid
treatment shall be progressivelyreduced: 75% and
100% respectively for FY90/9 1; 50% and 100%
(c) C                             respectively for FY91/92; 25% and 50%
respectively for FY92/93; and 0% and 0%
respectively for FY93/94
Schedule,    5,10         C                                Replacedby: SODECAO's interventionfor anti-
para5 (d)                                                  mirid treatment shall be progressivelyreduced so
that smallholders shall be entirely responsible for
said treatment in FY93/94



Covenant Types:                                                                             Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits                    8  = Indigenous people                              C  = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue      9  = Monitoring, review and reporting               CD = Complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries
3 = Flow and utilization of project     10 = Project implementation not covered            CP = Complied with partially
funds                                     by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                 11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or       NC = Not complied with
other resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of the          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/             NA = Not applicable any longer
project or executing agency               regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants            13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



- 28 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                Describe Lack of Compliance
OD/BP 13.40 Suspension of Disbursements    Delayed action on Borrower non-compliance
with the Development Credit Agreement
related to audits, procurement and project
management
Table 12: Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
Planned           Actual            Actual
Stage of Project Cycle         Staffweeks        Staffweeks        US$ (000)
Preparation                                         52.32            96,140
Appraisal                                           59.08           112,639
Negotiations-Board                                  28.05            56,645
Supervision                                        185.41           421,655
Completion                                          19.65            54,742
Total                                              344.96           741,821



- 29 -
Table 13: Bank Resources -- Missions
Stage of       Date    No. of  Specialization/ Implementation  Development  Types of
Project               Persons  Skills               Status        Objective    Problems
Cycle*1                           _ _1_
Supervision 1   11/88    4      Econ, TCS,            2               2
FA, Secon
Supervision 2   09/89    3      Econ, TCS, FA         3               2        L, F, TA
Supervision 3   07/90    3      Econ, TCS, FA         3               2        L, TA
Supervision 4   12/90    3      Econ, TCS, FA         3               2        L, TA
Supervision 5   06/91     1     TCS                   2               2        TA
Supervision 6   02/92     1     TCS                   2               2        L
Supervision 7   06/92     1     TCS                   2               2        P
Supervision 8   02/93     1     TCS                   2               2        F, P
Supervision 9   01/94     1     TCS                   3               3        L, M, F,
P, T, TA
Supervision    06/94     2      STCS, NI              U               U        L, M, F,
10                                                                             P, T, TA
Supervision    03/95     2      STCS, NI             H-U             HU        L, M, F,
11                                                                             P, T, TA
Completion     11/95     2      SA Econ, SOC         HU              HU
Key to specialized staff skills:
Econ = Economist, FA = Financial Analyst; NI = Not identified (consultant);
SA Econ = Senior Agricultural Economist, SEcon = Senior Economist,
SOC = Sociologist, STCS = Senior Tree Crops Specialist;
TCS = Senior Tree Crops Specialist
Key to types of problems:
L = Legal Covenant Compliance; F = Availability of Funds;
M = Management Performance; P = Procurement Progress; T = Training;
TA = Technical Assistance Progress



- 30 -
Annex 1
Social Impact of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
A rapid field survey was carried out as part of the ICR mission. The survey sample was
too small to draw definite conclusions from the entire project, but provided some valuable
insights. The main findings of the survey are summarized below.
Impact on Farmers
*  the project has failed to have an impact on the standards of living of the farmers and many
farmers have started to supplement their income with other activities (primarily foodcrops)
*  the decline in standards of living is caused by deteriorating cocoa prices (world market and
farmgate)
*  price liberalization has not had a positive impact on the prices that farmers received, unless
they were organized. Prices paid were positively related to amounts produced and the main
beneficiaries have been the traders
-  production and productivity have both decreased as a result of declining prices
-  inputs are hard to come by because traders are reluctant to step in and no credit system exists
-  productivity was further negatively impacted by a lack of extension advice after SODECAO
withdrew from this activity
Reinsertion Program (37 former employees were interviewed):
-  only 30 of the 37 surveyed had benefited from the reinsertion program
-  the majority of those surveyed became active in small livestock
*  almost all received only part of their reinsertion benefits
*  two-thirds of the mini-projects supported by the reinsertion program are no longer active,
due to lack of funds, lack of markets and inadequate management
*  the majority of beneficiaries resold all or part of the project provided supplies
*  non-beneficiaries are engaged in the same types of activities as beneficiaries of the program
*  25 out of the 30 beneficiaries reported lower income; their new income corresponds to that
of normal civil servants (SODECAO paid superior wages)
*  non-reinsertion program related activities account for more than 15-20 percent of household
income
*  all the beneficiaries had problems adapting to their new environment (lack of health
facilities, schools, land, etc.)
*  25 out of 30 rated the reinsertion program as a total failure (poor organization, difficulty in
obtaining materials, poor preparation of the projects, and lack of training and follow-up)



-31-
Annex 2
Summary of Government's Project Completion Report
This report is divided into 5 main parts:
-     the general presentation of the project
-     the site of the zone of operation and the presentation of the executing agency
-     the project evaluation
-     the project constraints
-     the outlook of the project, and recommendations.
The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project was based on the Loan Agreement No. 2912-CM
signed on April 21, 1988, between the Republic of Cameroon and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). The initial amount of the project was estimated at
US$103 million (CFAF 28,84 billion). Following the restructuring of the project, which led to
the signing of the Performance Contract between Cameroon and SODECAO on January 25,
1991, the amount of the Loan was reduced from US$103 million to US$61.7 million (CFAF
17.276 billion).
The Caisse Francaise de Developpement contributed CFAF 9 billion, and therefore the
total amount allocated by the donors for the project amounted to CFAF 26.726 billion. The
counterpart funds from the Govemment of Cameroon are estimated at CFAF 1.365 billion.
The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project was supposed to cover the areas supervised by
SODECAO, executing agency of the project. This zone, which represents about 20 percent of
the whole territory and has a rural population estimated at 1.7 million inhabitants, produces
approximately 70 percent of the national cocoa production estimated at 100,000 tons at the
beginning of the Project.
After the loan restructuring, the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project had 2 main objectives:
(i) rehabilitation of cocoa culture through the creation of 18,000 ha of cocoa plots; and
(ii) transfer of some of SODECAO's responsibilities to farmers groups and to the private sector,
especially supply services, provision of pesticides, and marketing.
At project completion, none of the above objectives were achieved. Responsibility for
the lack of project success is shared between executing agencies (SODECAO, IRA, Traditional
Services), the State, the donors, and the farmers.
Numerous constraints have prevented the project execution, notably on the project
design, socio-economic, financial and managerial fronts.  The benefits of the project are
insignificant; cocoa production is the same and farmers revenues have only slightly increased as
a result of the CFAF devaluation and the increase in world prices for cocoa. Supervision of
farmers has been decreased during the project execution phase
The Government's mission recommends that a new Cocoa Rehabilitation Project must
be negotiated, due to the recovery of world cocoa prices, to the increased interest of the farmers



- 32 -
following the increase in prices, to the CFAF devaluation which has made exports more
competitive, to the set-up by the Government of financial technical assistance to the rural sector,
and to the importance of cocoa in the national economy.
The mission also recommends that SODECAO, the entity in charge of the project,
should be completely restructured to adapt to the following changes in the sector; (i) the new
Government policy of State disengagement; (ii) increased farmer responsibilities; (iii) improved
professionalism in the rural sector; and (iv) liberalization of the agricultural subsectors. It is
recommended to have a lighter structure mainly in charge of coordinating the rehabilitation of
cocoa production.
Finally, the mission recommends that a minimum activity program be in place in the
short term within SODECAO, awaiting the results of the studies which should be done for the
total restructuring of SODECAO and the set up of a new Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.



10o          15'
>18    --                                                                                      C A M E R OO N
-100          !    -                                                                            COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
NIGERIA !  K.CHAD    d -r ~                                                                               .. ~" "_ . , THE SODECAO REGION
J        c.-                                                                                                     Paved Roods
A    0 ij  (C'.A.R.                                M                                                         -        Unpaved Roads
Ara
: _   Aeof \                           -                                          .-               *A  SODECAO Training Center
Map                                                                                                  *   Reseorch Antenna
EO. G N ~t . \                                                  />EA AON                                           T   RAL *   Capital of South Province Center
J                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTEM Sector/Department
C   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Notional and Province Copitol ond
o>. /   P R  WV  I N  C  E  \ w       m     .                     SODECAO Headquarters
fic                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Sector/Department Center
'Z1ZPZ Other Rural Development Projects
Ntui                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Limits of the Ecological Forest Area
Mean Annual Rainfall (mm)
TO DOUALA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--Sub-Sector Boundary
-_Sector/Department Boundaries
SAN GA  LEKI  MEFOU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Province Boundaries
ou        TOABONG         --international Boundaries
NYONG.-KEL                  E LE, MO
.//~~~~7 s No;S,}
gribi                   E      _                    Songmielirno       t
r       /s O~~ U T H\              P R O V I N C E                
/       I ~NTEM
DJA-ET-LOBO                  I    o
KILOMETERS
C-                                                                                                                                                                -  r  -----( _
cD                        EQUATORIAL GUINEA                               G A B O N                                          CONGO                     -- n
a)






M A L I                                      -
NI GER        / E               SODA               C_f                                                          ,
\.   ~~~            C'~~,d    L ~SUDAN
BU8RKINA 3         N               CHAD       :                                                             .     M_ of 
FASO  Y                             HI     Dr
B ENINf 
N I G E R I A              C            , 
S4  ~ ~ ~~~IN'DJAMENA
GHAN4                            / CENTRAL AFRICAN
--a,       CAME ROON I       REPUBLIC   .                                                                                                2 -
N C A M E R 0 0          OI  O ,5it  ''   KILOMETERS 0  20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160on              cHAD
CvR" o'   EQUATORIAL             V                         MILES 0   20  40   60  80   100                        1OG/vF
Gne  GUINEA;                     Z A I R E                                                          />C1R                S
Z &CONGOi                                                                            CHARI t
FrdATf IC OCEAN      GABON         ( X                                 N  I G  E R I A             j~~ ag,o<  N  I G  E R
Kr                                                            Mo_Lt.>           w<\t 
f   K- 'M;g
C A M  E R OO  N                                                      ARiQ/Moro          MA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
hE   -~  - COCOA BELT                                                            ,--
SODECAO REGION
PAVED ROADS, NATIONAL
UNPAVED ROADS, NATIONAL
- --  UNPAVED ROADS, PROVINCIAL                                  GARODA
- - -- UNPAVED ROADS, DISTRICT
,,   RAILROADS
RIVERS                                                                       E
4.  PORTS
*   NATIONAL CAPITALS
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS
o)  DIVISION CAPITALS                                                                                 A
o   SUB -DIVISION CAPITALS
o   DISTRICT CAPITALS
o   OTHER TOWNS
*    AIRPORTS                                .
-  -  DIVISION BOUNDARIES
-  -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES             /                              0 Ngooond.l 
N           I G   E  R  I A                                                                  A UT  ANAD
A,N  '
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
C  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       
EQUATE AIAR                        G I                    GAB   ON                                     COG O
M1.66r/C                 OCFAN 44        N it.         ... Mion/on*'~  .<~   Diou     '    j    \Nco(\      j/L        ,> 
OCEAN 1   j4 soon                                     _             ?- i         t\zXt                  )   ;       (\4  
e~~~~~~~~"                          N     M     1-  rv -     lo                                                   Nds  6 
EQUEUTOAATUIEA !GORIANL                                                                                           CNO    
dtf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E. __                                                                                      r     N0  G 02 'vo''1  









IMAGING
Report No.:          16755
Type:     ICR



