Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2912 CM
Loan Agreement
(Cocoa Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 21, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2912 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated October 26, 1987, from the 
Borrower stating its policies in the cocoa sector and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of policy reforms (the Program of policy reforms) aiming 
at increased production incentives, more  efficient marketing systems and improved 
support services for the delivery of technical advice and inputs;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Societe de Developpement du 
Cacao (SODECAO) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to SODECAO part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided 
in this Agreement;
(D)
in order to assist in financing part of the Project, the Borrower intends 
to contract from Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GTZ) a 
grant (the GTZ Grant) in an approximate amount equivalent to three million dollars 
($3,000,000), on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the GTZ Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and GTZ; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Page  2
SODECAO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and SODECAO of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SODECAO pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Financing 
Agreement;
(c)
"CENADEC Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CENADEC pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the CENADEC 
Agreement;
(d)
"FONADER Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into among the 
Borrower, FONADER and SODECAO pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
FONADER Agreement;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"MINAGRI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for agriculture;
 
(g)
"DEP" means the Direction des Etudes et Projets of MINAGRI;
 
(h)
"COOP/MUT" means the Direction de la Cooperation et de la Mutualite of 
MINAGRI;
(i)
"MINCI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for commerce and 
industry;
(j)
"IRA" means Institut de la Recherche Agronomique, a research institute of 
the Borrower's ministry responsible for higher education and scientific research;
(k)
"SODECAO" means Societe de Developpement du Cacao, a Societe de 
Developpement of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Law No. 68/LF/9 
dated June 11, 1968, Decree No. 80/080 dated March 10, 1980 and Decree No. 84/78 dated 
March 19, 1984, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(l)
"CENADEC" means Centre National de Developpement des Entreprises 
Cooperatives, an Etablissement Public of the Borrower, operating pursuant to Decree 
No. 75/682 dated October 25, 1975, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(m)
"ONCPB" means Office National de Commercialisation des Produits de Base, 
the Borrower's National Produce Marketing Board, established and operating pursuant to 
Law No. 76/20 dated September 9, 1976 and Decree No. 78/054 dated February 23, 1978;
(n)
"SOCOODER" means a Societe Cooperative de Developpement Rural, 
established and operating in accordance with the Borrower's Law No. 73/15 of December 
Page  3
7, 1973 and Decree No. 74/874 of October 29, 1974 and its statutes, or any successor 
thereto;
(o)
"FONADER" means the Fonds National de Developpement Rural of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24, 
dated May 29, 1973, as amended by the Borrower's Law No. 77/05, dated July 13, 1977, 
and the Borrower's Decree No. 73/496, dated August 28, 1973, as such Ordinance, Law 
and Decree may be amended from time to time;
(p)
"SODECAO's Area of Operation" means the Borrower's Center and South 
Provinces and the Sanaga Maritime Department in the Littoral Province; 
(q)
"Project Accounts" means the SODECAO Project Account and the CENADEC 
Project Account referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"CFA francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaute 
Financiere Africaine, the currency of the Borrower; and
(s)
"Subsidiary Financing" means a loan made or proposed to be made by 
FONADER, out of the Borrower's contribution and out of the proceeds of the Loan, for a 
pilot medium-size plantation in accordance with Section 2.02 (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred three million dollars ($103,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (except Part D thereof) and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and
(ii)
for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for 
disbursements required 
to be made) under Subsidiary Financings 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for 
Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedules 1 and 6 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for 
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
Page  4
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of .he 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part B of the Project through MINAGRI; and
 
(ii)
shall cause: (1) CENADEC to carry out Part C of the Project; and 
(2) FONADER to 
carry out Part D of the Project with SODECAO's 
assistance;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, agricultural, economic, financial and planning practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the purpose.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SODECAO to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SODECAO therein 
set forth, shall take or cause to be  taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
SODECAO to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into a financing agreement with SODECAO, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, for the purpose of 
making available the proceeds of the Loan to SODECAO, as may be allocated from time to 
time to Categories (1) through  (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
I to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with CENADEC (the CENADEC 
Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, for 
the purpose of the execution of Part C of the Project and of making available the 
proceeds of the Loan to CENADEC, as  may be allocated from time to time to Categories 
(6) through (8) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall enter into, and shall cause SODECAO to enter into, an 
agreement with FONADER (the FONADER Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank, for the purpose of the execution of Part D of the 
Project and of making available the proceeds of the Loan to FONADER, as may be 
allocated from time to time to Category (11) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in accordance with the policies and procedures set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement, the 
Page  5
CENADEC Agreement and the FONADER Agreement, in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Financing Agreement, the CENADEC Agreement, the FONADER 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and maintain a Project Account in the name of SODECAO and a 
Project Account in the name of CENADEC in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank to be used exclusively for the purpose of meeting 
expenditures not financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, under Parts A and C of the Project, respectively;
(b)
in addition to the initial amounts referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, deposit into said Project Accounts, promptly before the end of each 
quarter of its fiscal year, the Borrower's contribution towards expenditures under 
Parts A and C of the Project, respectively,
during such quarter; and
(c)
take all necessary measures to ensure that, before the end of each 
quarter of its fiscal year, until the completion of the Project, the aggregate amount 
available in the SODECAO Project Account shall be not less than one billion nine 
hundred eighty million CFA francs (CFAF1,980,000,000) and in the CENADEC Project  
Account not less than sixty million CFA francs (CFAF 60,000,000).
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that SODECAO shall be directly responsible 
for the procurement of all crop protection chemicals for its annual programs; and (ii) 
cause SODECAO, in the carrying out of Part A.4 of the Project, to coordinate and 
supervise the use of pesticides and
fungicides in accordance with environmental guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by SODECAO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish sufficient cocoa planting materials 
from its seed farms to SODECAO to enable SODECAO to carry out its annual planting 
program.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 of each year, furnish 
or cause to be furnished to the Bank for its review proposed annual work programs 
relating to Part B of the Project and budgets relating thereto and for its approval 
proposed annual work programs of CENADEC and budgets relating thereto.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1988, or such other 
date as the Bank may agree, extend the planting bonus of CFAF 200,000 to all farmers 
planting or replanting cocoa trees over an area of one hectare or more.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the organization and 
management study of SODECAO included in Part B.4 of the Project shall be completed not 
later than September 30, 1988; (b) furnish a copy of said study to the Bank for its 
review and comments and exchange views with the Bank on the recommendations included 
therein; and (c) promptly thereafter take all such measures as determined in agreement 
with the Bank on the basis of said recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts, as 
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditures 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause CENADEC and FONADER, respectively, to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of CENADEC and FONADER.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CENADEC and FONADER, respectively, to:
 
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of their financial statements 
for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  7
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the records, 
accounts and 
financial statements of CENADEC and FONADER, as well 
as the audit thereof, as the 
Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: (a) cause ONCPB to carry out a study on cocoa 
export marketing strategy in accordance with terms of reference determined in 
agreement with the Bank and to complete it not later than March 31, 1989; (b) furnish 
a copy of said study to the Bank for its review and comments and exchange views with 
the Bank on the recommendations included therein; and (c) promptly thereafter take or 
cause to be taken all such measures as determined in agreement with the Bank on the 
basis of said recommendations.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause:
(a)
CENADEC to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(b)
FONADER to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial, agricultural credit, commercial and economic 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SODECAO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SODECAO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower's Law or Decrees referred to in Section 1.02 (k) of this 
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of SODECAO to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement or the operations or financial condition of 
SODECAO.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SODECAO, CENADEC or FONADER or 
for the suspension of operations of any of them without prior arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank having been made by  the Borrower for the transfer to another 
agency or service of the Borrower of their respective functions with regard to the 
carrying out of the part of the Project for which they are responsible.
(e)
Any representation made by SODECAO in or pursuant to the Project 
Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be 
relied upon by the Bank in making the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material 
respect.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
(including the GTZ Grant) made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or 
in 
Page  8
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this 
Agreement.
(g)
An event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the Program of 
policy reforms, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and SODECAO; 
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the SODECAO Project Account and the CENADEC Project Account have been 
opened and the Borrower has deposited therein an amount of one billion nine hundred 
eighty million CFA francs (CFAF 1,980,000,000) and an amount of sixty million CFA 
francs (CFAF 60,000,000), respectively;
(b)
the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
SODECAO;
(c)
the CENADEC Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CENADEC;
(d)
the general director, the deputy general director and the management 
controller referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement have assumed their 
functions; and
(e)
the GTZ Grant Agreement has been duly signed and conditions precedent to 
initial disbursements under said Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
SODECAO, and is legally binding upon SODECAO in accordance with its terms;
Page  9
(b)
that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and SODECAO and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SODECAO in 
accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the CENADEC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CENADEC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CENADEC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning and regional 
development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and
   Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPAT
8203-KN
Yaounde
With copy to:
Ministry of Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFI
8260-KN
Yaounde
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Page  10
By /s/ Paul Pondi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
       Loan Allocated                 % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
 
I.  SODECAO
    Expenditures
(1)     Vehicles                  18,300,000        100%
(2)     Equipment                  7,500,000        100%
    and mate-
    rials
(3)     Consultants'               1,800,000        100%
    services
(4)     Training                   1,200,000        90%
(5)     Chemical                  49,600,000        90%
    inputs
II.     CENADEC
    Expenditures
(6)     Vehicles and                 800,000        100%
    equipment
(7)     Consultants'               1,100,000        100%
    services
(8)     Training                     500,000        90%
III.  MINAGRI
      Expenditures
(9)     Goods and                    300,000        90%
    services for
    Part B.1, 2
    and 3 of the
    Project
Page  11
(10) Consultants'                    500,000        100%
     services for
     Part B.4 of
     the Project
IV.     Other
    Expenditures
(11) Goods and                   11,100,000         65%
     services
     financed
     under Part D
     of the
     Project
(12) Unallocated                  10,300,000
        TOTAL                    103,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement; 
and (ii) after October 15 of each year, unless: (A) SODECAO's targets for reduction of 
personnel and operating costs set forth in paragraph 5 (a) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement corresponding  to the preceding fiscal year have been met in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) cocoa producer prices and prices for 
fungicide treatment corresponding to the following twelve-month period have been 
determined in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and formally announced; and
(b)
payments for any Subsidiary Financing under Category (11): (i) unless the 
Borrower has evidenced to the Bank, and the Bank is satisfied with such evidence, that 
the entity substituting for FONADER for the carrying out of Part D of the Project with 
SODECAO's assistance is  legally established, has sound financial, technical and 
operational structures and capabilities and has agreed to and will assume all 
FONADER's agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement; (ii) until the Bank 
has dispatched notice to the Borrower, FONADER and SODECAO that it has received and 
accepted the evidence that the FONADER Agreement has been executed by the parties 
thereto and, as part of such evidence, the Bank has been furnished by an opinion(s) 
satisfactory to the Bank showing that the FONADER Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon its respective parties 
in accordance with its terms; and (iii) unless the policies and procedures set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been complied with.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to help modernize the cocoa industry in 
the Borrower's territory; (b) to increase foreign exchange revenues by promoting cocoa 
exports; (c) to increase the income level of smallholders by expanding cocoa 
production and raising productivity; and (d) to promote the establishment of middle 
size plantations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
SODECAO
 
1.
Strengthening of SODECAO's general management through a five-year development 
program by: (a) increasing the efficiency of its Financial and Administrative 
Departments and its Management Control Unit; and (b) reorganizing its Monitoring and 
Evaluation Unit;
Page  12
all including the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of equipment 
and vehicles therefor.
2.
Support to SODECAO's on-going agricultural activities related to its smallholder 
program in SODECAO Area of Operation consisting of: (a) cocoa planting of about 45,000 
ha; (b) further development of immature cocoa plantations of about 17,000 ha; (c) 
in-filling of about 35,000 ha in young and mature cocoa plantations; (d) Robusta 
coffee planting of about 1,400 ha and rehabilitation of about 1,200 ha; and (e) food 
crop cultivation; 
all including the provision of technical assistance, the construction of storage and 
office facilities and the acquisition of agricultural inputs, equipment and vehicles 
therefor.
3.
Support to, and progressive reorganization of, SODECAO's extension services, 
including the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles therefor.
4.
Support to SODECAO's pest control services and carrying out of an adaptive 
research program for pest control, including the provision of technical assistance and 
the acquisition of chemical inputs, equipment and vehicles therefor.
5.
Construction of about 1,350 km of feeder roads and carrying out of a five-year 
feeder road maintenance program in SODECAO's Area of Operation, including the 
provision of technical assistance, the construction of warehouses and office 
facilities and the acquisition of materials, equipment and vehicles therefor.
6.
Carrying out of a training program for extension workers and young farmers with 
an emphasis on women's and management training.
Part B:
MINAGRI
 
1.
Preparation of a long-term cocoa development strategy (including pricing 
policies).
2.
Strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation unit responsible for the Center, 
South and Littoral Provinces, within DEP. 
3.
Development of an appropriate analytical capability within DEP to monitor the 
impact of cocoa price changes and farmer income.
4.
Carrying out of an organization and management study of SODECAO.
 
Part C:
Strengthening of Cocoa Marketing
 
Reorganization of the cocoa marketing system to make it more efficient and to 
strengthen CENADEC, marketing cooperatives and cooperative unions including the 
provision of technical assistance and training and the construction of storage 
facilities and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment therefor.
Part D:
Pilot Medium-size Plantation Program
 
Carrying out of a program for development of medium-size cocoa plantations over 
about 4,000 ha in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
*  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 1 and November 1
Page  13
beginning November 1, 1993
through   November 1, 2007
3,435,000
 
On May 1, 2008
3,385,000
 
_______________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 
and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to the
balance outstanding on the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not
0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before
1.00
Page  14
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist SODECAO, DEP and CENADEC in carrying out the Project, 
SODECAO, DEP and CENADEC shall employ consultants (including the workshop manager 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement) whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981. 
Page  15
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (11) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
400,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On thebasis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request, for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made 
directly by the Borrower from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories 
for the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall be equal to 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
Page  16
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
SCHEDULE 6
Policies and Procedures for the Execution of
Part D of the Project
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Part D of the Project shall be carried 
out in accordance with the following operating policies and procedures:
1.
Pilot medium-size cocoa plantation development projects (hereinafter called the 
sub-projects) to be financed by Subsidiary Financings under Part D of the Project 
shall be for priority investments designed to improve cocoa production in the SODECAO 
Area of Operation over about 4,000 ha.
2.
Sub-projects shall be appraised by DEP with SODECAO's assistance. The appraisal 
report for each sub-project shall include:
(a)
the technical feasibility, financial viability, economic justification 
including land consideration (location, acquisition and compensation) and, where 
applicable, commercial soundness and availability of markets;
(b)
an economic rate of return calculation. Only sub-projects with an 
economic rate of return of at least 15% shall be approved;
(c)
appropriate consideration to the technical and managerial capability of 
the individual, group of individuals or entity proposed to carry out the sub-project 
and the choice of technology, timing, location and justification thereof; and
(d)
the adequacy of the arrangements for the provision of extension services 
to farmers and the recovery of service charges.
3.
The area covered by any sub-project shall be from 10 to 50 ha for individual 
plantations, with an estimated cost not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, and up to a 
maximum of 200 ha for individual plantings grouped into large blocks, with an 
estimated cost not to exceed $900,000 equivalent.
4.
All sub-projects shall be submitted for approval to FONADER's Credit Committee 
and, when estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each, to the Bank.
(a)
When presenting a Subsidiary Financing, for a sub-project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, to the Bank for approval, FONADER shall 
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: 
(i) a description of the entity to  carry out the sub-project and an appraisal 
thereof, including a descriptio of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subsidiary 
Financing, including the schedule of amortization of the Subsidiary Financing; and
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by FONADER for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Page  17
Loan Account in respect of a Subsidiary Financing for a sub-project estimated to cost 
less than $150,000 equivalent shall contain: (i) a summary description of the 
subproject and the entity to carry it out, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and 
conditions of the Subsidiary Financing.
(c)
Except as the Bank and FONADER shall otherwise agree, applications and 
requests made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) above shall be 
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1993.
5.
(a)
The entities selected to carry out the sub-projects shall promptly enter 
into written arrangements with FONADER and SODECAO, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to which FONADER shall, inter alia, obtain rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and
FONADER, including the right of FONADER to:
(i)
require the entity to carry out and operate the sub-project with 
due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, 
account being taken also of 
other relevant factors such as 
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of 
the goods, 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor 
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the 
parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and services shall be 
used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the sub-project;
 
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank and 
SODECAO if 
the Bank and SODECAO shall so request, such goods and 
the sites, works, plants 
and construction included in the 
subproject, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and 
documents;
(iv)
obtain all such information as the Bank or FONADER or SODECAO 
shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the entity 
carrying out the sub-project, if 
appropriate, and to 
the benefits to be derived  therefrom; and
(v)
suspend or terminate the right of the entity carrying out the 
sub-project to 
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon 
failure by such entity to perform its 
obligations under its 
arrangements with FONADER and SODECAO.
(b)
FONADER shall exercise its rights in relation to each sub-project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and FONADER; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
