Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2912 CM
Project Agreement
(Cocoa Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU CACAO
Dated April 21, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2912 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU CACAO (SODECAO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred three million 
dollars ($103,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that SODECAO agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
SODECAO, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to SODECAO on the terms and conditions set forth in said Financing 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS SODECAO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SODECAO declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project and assist FONADER in the carrying out of Part D of the 
Project, with due diligence and efficiency  and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Bank and SODECAO shall otherwise agree, SODECAO shall carry out 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. SODECAO shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part A of the Project. 
Section 2.04. SODECAO shall duly perform all its obligations under the Financing 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SODECAO shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SODECAO shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SODECAO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SODECAO of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SODECAO
Section 3.01. (a) SODECAO shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic and agricultural 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing paragraph (a), 
SODECAO shall at all times employ a general director, a deputy general director, a 
financial director, a management controller, an agricultural production director, a 
feeder roads director and a workshop
Page  3
manager, all with appropriate qualifications and experience.
Section 3.02. SODECAO shall at all times operate and maintain its facilities, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. SODECAO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SODECAO shall at all times take all such action as shall be 
necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges 
which are necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying out its obligations under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SODECAO shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
SODECAO shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SODECAO 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SODECAO thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered
Page  4
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter 
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to 
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For SODECAO:
Societe de Developpement
   du Cacao
P.O. Box 1651
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SODECAO
8574-KN
Yaounde
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SODECAO may be 
taken or executed by SODECAO's General Director or such other person or persons as 
SODECAO shall designate in writing,  and SODECAO shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU CACAO
By /s/ Paul Pondi
Authorized Representative
Page  5
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
SODECAO shall, not later than June 30, 1988, enter into an agreement with IRA on 
terms and conditions which shall be satisfactory to the Bank, providing for respective 
responsibilities for the carrying out of the adaptive research program for anti-Mirid 
treatment and Black Pod control
under Part A.4 of the Project.
2.
In the carrying out of Part A.5 of the Project, SODECAO shall evenly 
decentralize its road activities during the period 1988-1989 to the three centers of 
Bafia, Yaounde and Ebolowa under the overall supervision of its feeder roads director 
assisted by one deputy director.
3.
Foodcrop planting materials shall be sold by SODECAO to farmers at full cost.
 
4.
SODECAO shall, not later than March 31 of each year, furnish to the Bank for its 
approval proposed annual work programs and budgets relating thereto.
5.
SODECAO shall take all necessary measures to achieve the following targets:
 
(a)
Taking as a base its budget for fiscal year July 1, 1986/June 30, 1987, 
personnel costs and operating costs will be reduced in real terms respectively by:
.
2% and 3% for fiscal year 1987/88;
 
.
4% and 6% for fiscal year 1988/89;
 
.
6% and 9% for fiscal year 1989/90;
 
.
8% and 12% for fiscal year 1990/91; and
 
.
10% and 15% for fiscal year 1991/92.
 
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i)
the term "personnel costs" means the total wage bill of SODECAO 
for permanent 
and temporary staff, including gross salaries, 
allowances, bonuses and 
benefits; and
 
(ii)
the term "operating costs" means the sum of all expenses related 
to operations 
including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, interest and 
other charges on debt, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and personnel costs.
(b)
Extension activities will be undertaken in 200 cooperative centers during 
fiscal year 1988/89 and said number will cumulatively reach:
.
400 during fiscal year 1989/90;
 
.
600 during fiscal year 1990/91;
 
.
800 during fiscal year 1991/92; and
 
.
1,000 during fiscal year 1992/93.
 
(c)
Anti-Mirid treatment will be reorganized in 300 cooperative centers 
during fiscal year 1988/89 and said number will cumulatively reach:
.
600 during fiscal year 1989/90;
 
.
900 during fiscal year 1990/91;
 
.
1,200 during fiscal year 1991/92; and
 
Page  6
.
1,500 during fiscal year 1992/93.
 
(d)
SODECAO shall take all necessary measures on its part to increase the 
charge on fungicide for Black Pod treatment in accordance with the Program of policy 
reforms.
