Page  1
April 2, 1991
His Excellency Marcel Niat Njifendji
Minister of Plan and Regional Development
Ministry of Plan and Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Re:
Loan No. 2912 CM
(Cocoa Rehabilitation Project)
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the above-mentioned Loan Agreement between Republic of Cameroon (the 
Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated 
April 21, 1988, as amended by letter from the Bank dated October 19, 1988, confirmed 
by the Borrower on October 25, 1988.
Further to discussions held with your representatives and representatives of 
Societe de Developpement du Cacao (SODECAO) during the July 1990 Bank mission with a 
view to a restructuring of the Project, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank 
hereby agrees to the following amendment
to the Loan Agreement:
1.
PREAMBLE
 
In the Preamble, a Recital (E) is added to read:
"(E)  the Borrower has contracted from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
Economique 
(CCCE) two loans (the CCCE Loans) in an aggregate amount of one 
hundred eighty million 
French Francs (FF 180,000,000) in order to assist in 
financing part of the Project, on terms 
and conditions set forth in two 
agreements (the CCCE Loan Agreements) date November 27, 
1985 and July 11, 
1988 between the Borrower and CCCE, as subsequently amended";
2.
ARTICLE I - General Conditions: Definitions
 
-
In Section 1.02:
 
(a)
the paragraphs defining the terms (d) "FONADER Agreement", (1) "CENADEC", 
(n) "SOCOODER", (o) "FONADER" and (s) "Subsidiary Financing", are deleted;
(b)
paragraphs (c), (e), (i) and (q) are amended to read:
 
(c)
'IRA Agreement', means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and IRA pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the IRA Agreement;"
(e)
'Special Accounts' means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;"
(i)
"MINDIC" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for industrial 
development and commerce;"
(q)
'Project Account' means the SODECAO Project Account referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;"
3.
The Loan
 
-
In Section 2.01, the amount of the Loan is amended to read: "sixty-one 
million seven hundred thousand dollars ($61,700,000)."
-
Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 2.02 (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Page  2
Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, open 
and maintain in CFAF, on behalf of SODECAO, MINAGRI and IRA, 
respectively, three special 
deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement".
4.
ARTICLE III - Execution of the Project
 
In Section 3.01:
(a)
the beginning of paragraph (a) is amended to read:
 
"(a)
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives  of the 
Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the 
Project through MINAGRI and Part C of the Project 
through IRA, all with due diligence"... 
(no change thereafter);
 
(b)
Paragraph (d) is amended to read:
 
"(d)  The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with IRA (the 
Agreement), under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank, for the purpose of the 
execution of Part C of the Project al of 
making available, to IRA, such proceeds of the 
Loan, as may be allocated 
from time to time to Categories (8) through (10) of the table set  forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule I to this Agreement."
(c)
paragraph (e) is deleted; and
 
(d)
paragraph (f) is amended to read as follows:
 
"(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing 
Agreement and the 
IRA Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Financing Agreement or the IRA 
Agreement, or any 
provision thereof."
-
Section 3.02 is amended to read:
 
"Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon any of its obligations under 
Section 3.01  of this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project 
Account in the name 
of SODECAO in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank to be used 
exclusively for the purpose of meeting 
expenditures not financed out of the proceed of the 
Loan, under Part A of the 
Project."
- 
In Section 3.03 (b) (ii), "Part A.4 of the Project" is replaced by "Part 
A.2 of the Project".
-
Section 3.06 is amended to read:
 
"Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 of each year, 
furnish or 
cause to be furnished to the Bank for its approve proposed annual work 
programs relating to 
Parts B and C of the Project and budgets relating thereto."
 
-
Section 3.07 is deleted.
 
5.
ARTICLE IV - Financial Covenants
 
-
Section 4.02 is deleted.
Page  3
6.
ARTICLE V - Other Covenants
 
-
Section 5.02 is deleted.
 
7.
ARTICLE VI - Remedies of the Bank
 
-
In Section 6.01 (d), only the term "SODECAO" is to appear, and no longer 
CENADEC or FONADER.
-
In Section 6.01 (f)(i)(A), the words "and the CCCE Loans" are inserted, 
between the parentheses, after the words "including the GTZ Grant".
Section 6.01 (g) is deleted.
8.
SCHEDULE 1 - Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
Schedule 1 is amended to read as shown in Annex A hereto.
9.
SCHEDULE 2 - Description of the Project
 
Schedule 2 is amended to read as shown in Annex B hereto.
10.
SCHEDULE 3 - Amortization Schedule
 
Schedule 3 is amended to read as shown in Annex C hereto.
11.
SCHEDULE 4 - Procurement and Consultants' Services
 
-
In Section I: (a) the paragraph set forth under Part A: International 
Competitive Bidding is numbered as 1. and the following paragraph 2 is added:
"2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and chemical 
inputs shall be 
bulked annually."
 
and (b) Part C: Other Procurement Procedures is to read as follows:
"Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for vehicles, equipment, materials and chemical inputs 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $4,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank, provided that:
(i)
all bids shall be opened in public and bidders' representatives 
shall be 
allowed to be present;
 
(ii)
criteria for evaluating bids shall be set out clearly and 
communicated to all 
bidders; and
 
(iii)
foreign companies shall not be required to be incorporated in 
Cameroon in 
order to participate in the bidding.
 
2.
Items or groups of items for equipment and materials estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Land preparation works under Part A.3 of the Project may be carried out by 
SODECAO under force account, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000."
-
The beginning of Section II, Employment of Consultants, is to read:
 
"In order to assist MINAGRI and IRA in carrying out the Project, MINAGRI 
and IRA 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications,..." (no change 
Page  4
thereafter).
12.
SCHEDULE 5 - Special Accounts
 
-
Paragraph l(a) is to read:
 
"1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term 'eligible Categories' means the following Categories set 
forth in the  table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 in this Agreement:
 
(i)
in the case of SODECAO, Categories (1) through (5);
(ii)
in the case of MINAGRI, Categories (6) and (7); and
(iii)  in the case of IRA, Categories (8) through (10);"
-
Paragraph 1(c) is to read:
 
"(c) the term 'Authorized Allocation' means an amount equivalent to: (i) 
CFAF 
1,000,000,000 in the case of SODECAO; (ii) CFAF 100,000,000 in the case 
of MINAGRI; and 
(iii) CFAF 50,000,000 in the case of IRA, to be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and 
deposited into a Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule".
-
Wherever the terms "the Special Account" appear, they are to read: "each 
of the 
Special Accounts".
 
13.
SCHEDULE 6 - Policies and Procedures for the Execution of Part D of the Project
 
Schedule 6 is deleted.
Project Agreement
We further refer to the Project Agreement between the Bank and Societe de 
Developpement du Cacao (SODECAO) dated April 21, 1988, for the Cocoa Rehabilitation 
Project.  By separate letter addressed to SODECAO, a copy of which is enclosed 
herewith, the Bank agrees to the amendments to the Project Agreement as set forth in 
said letter.
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
It is understood that the amendments to the Loan Agreement shall come into force 
upon confirmation of your agreement as indicated above and upon confirmation of 
SODECAO's agreement to the amendments to the Project Agreement.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Michael J. Gillette
Director
Occidental and Central
Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
Annex A
Page  5
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated                % of
                              (Expressed in                 Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)            to be Financed
SODECAO
Expenditures
(1)  Vehicles                       3,740,000               100% of foreign
                                                            expenditures and
                                                            85% of local
                                                            expenditures
(2)   Equipment,                    1,250,000               100% of foreign
and materials                                               expenditures and
(except for                                                 85% of local
Part A.3 of the                                             expenditures
Project)
(3)   Goods and                     5,770,000               100%
services for
Part A.3 of  the
Project
(4)   SODECAO's                     15,060,000              80% up to
operating costs                                             December 31,
                                                            1991, 75% up to
                                                            December 31,
                                                            1992, 60% up to
                                                            December 31,
                                                            1993, and
                                                            50% thereafter
(5)   Chemical inputs               27,070,000              100%
II.  MINAGRI Expenditures
(6)   Operating costs                1,640,000              90% up to
for Part B of                                               December 31, 1992
the Project                                                 and 0% thereafter
(7)    Consultants'                   100,000               100%
services
III.  IRA Expenditures
(8)   Vehicles,                       440,000               100% of foreign
equipment and                                               expenditures and
materials                                                   85% of local
                                                            expenditures
(9)   Operating costs                 550,000               90%
for Part C of the
Project
Page  6
(10)  Consultants'                    180,000               100%
services
IV.   Other Expenditures
(11)  Unallocated                   5,900,000
            TOTAL                  61,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term of 'foreign expenditures' means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or  services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means operation and maintenance of Project 
vehicles and equipment including fuel and lubricants, small office supplies, and 
mission travel and subsistence allowances for local and expatriate staff involved in 
the Project and, in the case of SODECAO, field workers' wages.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures:
 
(i)
prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(ii)
after October 15 of each year, unless: (A) SODECAO's targets for 
reduction of 
personnel set forth in paragraph 5(a) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement 
have been met in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: 
and (B) cocoa producer 
prices and prices for fungicide and 
antimirid treatment corresponding to the 
following twelve-month 
period have been determined in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank and 
formally announced;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (8), (9) and (10), unless 
the IRA Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and IRA; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3), unless the Borrower 
has adopted eligibility criteria and terms and conditions of support to be provided to 
SODECAO field staff under Part A. 3 of the Project, all satisfactory to the Bank.
Annex B
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to consolidate the modernization efforts 
of SODECAO in the Borrower's cocoa industry; (b) to privatize SODECAO's operations 
through their transfer to farm groups and private traders; and (c) to support 
smallholders' production in cocoa, coffee and food crops, and crop research.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives;
Page  7
Part A:
SODECAO
 
1.
Reorganizing SODECAO's management and services over a four-year period so as to 
allow the private sector to progressively assume SODECAO's responsibilities, including 
the provision of technical assistance.
2.
Support to SODECAO's on-going agricultural activities related to its smallholder 
program in SODECAO's Area of Operation consisting of: (a) provision of selected cocoa 
and coffee planting materials, upon smallholders' request; and (b) a pest control 
program in association with cocoa farmers; all including the provision of technical 
assistance and the acquisition of agricultural inputs.
3.
Support to SODECAO field staff who have been laid off to undertake self-help 
farming activities.
4.
Construction of about 300 km of feeder roads and carrying out of a four-year 
feeder road maintenance program in SODECAO's Area of Operation for about 1,400 km, 
including the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of materials, 
equipment and vehicles therefor.
5.
Carrying out of a training program in SODECAO's Area of Operation  for farmers' 
groups in marketing, input purchase and distribution, and pest and disease control.
Annex B
Part B:
MINAGRI
 
Support to MINAGRI's extension services for farmers' groups in SODECAO's Area of 
Operation.
Part C:
IRA
 
Carrying out of an adaptive research program for agronomy and pest control, 
including the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of chemical 
inputs, equipment and vehicles therefore.
***  
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
Annex C
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1993
through November 1, 2007 
2,055,000
 
On May 1, 2008
2,105,000
 
____________________________ 
Page  8
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawals. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
